Report No. 728a-SU                                                                  FILE  Copy
Appraisal of the
Industrial Bank of Si --an
Sudan
October 10, 1975
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
100 Sudanese Piasters - 1 Pound Sudanese (.Es.)
1   Ls.                = US $ 2.872
1   US $               =  34.8 Piasters



APPRAISAL
or
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA .. . .        .......... ; ....                       i
SUMMARY                     ...iii
I. INTRODUCTION                    ...
II. ENVIRONMENT               1. .                                       1
Role of the Private and Public Sectors .......                   2
-Industrial Policies. . .                                        3
Scope for Industrial Investment.                                 5
Financing of Industry          ..................                6
The Industrial Production Corporation (IPC) ..                   7
III.   THE COMPANY .                                                      8
Background                                                       8
Capital ........................................                 8
Organization and Procedures .8
Operating Policies ...11
Lending Terms .11
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures                         12
IV.    OPERATIONS, PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL CONDITION                   12
Past Operations                ...12
Guarantees    ...14
Portfolio ....... .14
Provisions.                            .         ....   15
Financial Results               ...15
Financial Position               ...16
This report was prepared by Messrs. Zia Ahmed and Peter Edmonds on the
basis of their mission to Sudan in November 1974 and a follow-up mission
by Mr. Ahmed in April 1975.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   PROSPECTS .........      ...........................    16
Operational Forecasts ........................         16
Resource Requirements ........................          17
Projected Income and Profitability ...........         17
Projected Balance Sheets .....................         18
Disbursement ....     ............................ .    18
VI.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............          18
List of Annexes
Annex 1         Financial Institutions
Annex 2         Board of Directors
Annex 3         Organization Chart
Annex 4         Extracts from the By-Laws
Annex 5         Analysis of Approved Loans
Annex 6         Summary of Operations
Annex 7         Analysis of Guarantees Approved
Annex 8         Summary of Income Statements
Annex 9         Summary of Balamce Sheets
Annex 10        Financial Ratios
Annex 11        Assumptions for Financial rojections
Annex 12        Projected Operations
Annex 13        Projected Resource Position
Annex 14        Projected Incorme Statement
Annex 15        Projected Balance Sheets
Annex 16        Projected Cash Flow Statements
Annex 17        Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Credit



.LNLu U u isu B'i-K OF SU d,LN
Basic Data
Excchange Rate: bs. 1 = U&$2.87
alte of Establishment: libvembcr 1961
Ownership (as of June 30, 1975):  Paj,c-in share capita-l hS. 3,, " ..
whollry o-nedl by the 3aZnk of Sud?
(Central Bank)
Resources Pbsition (as of June 30, 19Y:  (bs,0too()
LoGcal Ourr7enc    Fer re       .~r-r~
.iLa2 L                                        3,224
U.S.A.I.D. loan
I.D.A. Credit                                  ___' 
Total Resources                        3,224               1,436
Out;tanding Portfolio                          1,816                 80i4
(less provisions)
Undisbursed Comi-trents                          299                 523
Net Fixed Assets                                  40
Total Commitments                      2,155                 2
Resources available for commitment:            1,206                 10
CoPtinvent liability under
guarantees:                                   57C
Coam!ritrents of Loans and Guarantees:  (bs2000)
Y.e.r E.ndi ng Deceriber 31            1°70    1971    1972    197'    1)7Li
l oans                                  1 33     201]  144    1090  r7L8
Guar^,ntees                              -       326      466      4.23      3
133     527      610    1513       t~J3B)



Earnings Record (ls.'000)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1)74
Net Income after Provisions
(loss}                           6.0   23.7   (237.3)  32.4    32.7
Net Income after Provisions
as percentage of average
net worth                         0.3     1.1    -10.5    1.3     1.2
Financial Position (as of December 31, 1974)
Debt/Equity Ratio                                   0.05:1
Provisions to Loan and Equity portfolio            13.7%
Interest Rates and Other charges
Interest rate on medium-term local currency
loans (2 - 6 yrs)                                 8-1/2%
Interest rate on long-term (6 - 15 yrs) local and
all foreign currency loans                        9-1/2%
Commitment charges                                  3/4%
Guarantee fee                                       2%
Bank Group Assistance (as of June 30, 1975)
Date of                              US$'000
IDA Credit No.    Effectiveness     Amount of
Credit    Authorized  Disbursed  Outstanding
447-SU          3/15/74        4,000       3,794        2,194       2,194
DFCD
October 9, 1975



- iii -
SUMMARY
i.        IBS was established in 1961 as a statutory corporation to provide
long-term finance to industrial enterprises in the Sudan. IDA extended its
first credit of $4 million to IBS in November 1973, which IBS has committed
fully. IBS has now approached IDA for a second credit.
ii.       The Sudanese manufacturing sector is still small, contributing
about 10% to 11% to GDP and producing final consumer products for the domestic
market. Mainly due to infrastructure deficiencies, inadequate project apprais-
al capabilities, high levels of protection and a number of inappropriate in-
dustrial policies pursued in the Sudan, the industrial sector is character-
ized by a high degree of unutilized capacity and, in some cases, inefficient
operations. This is particularly true of public sector projects. While the
Government is taking steps to improve the infrastructure facilities and is
seeking technical assistance from international agencies for improving the
project appraisal capabilities of the Ministry of Industry and for stream-
lining the operations of public enterprises, its discussions with the Bank
on the industrial policies are continuing. The Bank is anxious to reach under-
standings. with the Sudanese authorities in this matter as early as possible.
Meanwhile, due to an improvement in the investment climate which followed the
modification of the Government's economic policies and the enactment of leg-
islation providing for liberal incentives in 1972, a number of local and for-
eign investors are taking considerable interest in investing in sectors such
as textiles, sugar, building materials, etc. The public sector is also imple-
menting an ambitious investment program, in some eases with foreign collaboration.
iii.      Despite the current framework of industrial poslicies in the Sudan,
IBS' record of project selection and financing has been quite satisfactory.
IBS has concentrated on financing projects based on local raw materials;
their projected economic returns are favourable and most have had a reasonable
employment base.
iv.       IBS' interest rates - 9.5% on long-term loans and all foreign cur-
rency loans and 8.5% on medium-term local currency loans - are now out of
line with those prevalent in the Sudan. Commercial banks charge a minimum
of 10% on industrial advances. IBS has agreed to charge a minimum of 10%
on all its future sub-loans, with the exception of local currency sub-loans
to small and medium size enterprises in the least developed regions of the
country which will be charged 8-1/2%. Since IBS will continue to pass on
funds to sub-borrowers with a dollar foreign exchange risk, the overall cost
of credit supplied by IBS is reasonable.
v.        IBS' level of operations in 1973 registered an all-time high but
its 1974 approvals were below expectations mainly due to deferrals of two
loan proposals for is. 755,000 at the December meeting of IBS Board. One
of these for Ls. 600,000 was approved at the Board meeting in March, 1975.
IBS' approvals during the first quarter of 1975 again picked up. Most of
IBS' clients are Sudanese investors setting up small- and medium-size enter-
prises to process local raw materials. The availability of the first IDA



- iv -
credit and its rapid commitment has improved IBS' image in the local business
community and IBS now has a pipeline of projects which should enable it to
increase its approvals steadily over the next few years.
vi.       While IBS expanded its operations considerab]; during the last two
years, the improvement in its procedures was slower tl.an anticipated. However,
appraisal procedures now appear to be generally adequate; follow-up procedures
have recently been introduced and IBS has agreed to implement them without
delay. IBS' salary scales, which were last revised in 1973, again fell behind
those of the commercial banks; IBS has with the permission of its Board and
the Government recently engaged consultants to devise a suitable structure and
their recommendations are expected shortly.
vii.      IBS' loan portfolio continues to have a large percentage of arrears,
but the situation has improved in recent months. As of June 30, 1975, about
27% of the portfolio was affected by arrears of over 90 days. This is accounted
for largely by three major chronic defaulters. During negotiations IBS agreed
to have these projects studied in depth to determine its risk exposure, and
to review the provisions before the close of its 1975 accounts in the light
of the conclusions of the evaluation reports.
viii.     IBS' financial record is poor.  IBS' accumulated losses have eroded
its equity to is. 2.7 million as of December 31, 1974, whereas its paid-in
capital as of the same date was Es. 3 million. On the same date IBS' provi-
sions against doubtful debts amounted to Es. 279,000. The auditors considered
this to be inadequate as no provision had been made against a major defaulter.
IBS has agreed to evaluate the prospects of this project and to review provi-
sions when finalizing 1975 accounts. Notwithstanding the auditors' qualifica-
tions, IBS continues to be a creditworthy institution because its equity base
is large and it has the capacity to absorb, if necessary, substantial provi-
sions against the major problem projects. With a rapidly expanding portfolio
and increasing profitability, IBS estimates to eliminate accumulated losses by
1978 and to start building surpluses.
ix.       As of June 30, 1975, IBS' uncommitted resources were about As. 1.18
million of which Es. 1.07 million were in local currency and the equivalent of
Es. 1U9,000 in foreign currency. IBS is likely to have a comfortable domestic
resource position at least up to June 1977; Es. 1 million will be paid-in by
the Bank of Sudan as an increase of IBS' capital, Ls. 790,000 will come from
IBS' net internal cash generation, and Es. 445,000 is likely to be available
from sale of IBS' equity investments. As against these resources of Es. 2.24
million IBS' commitment requirements in local currency would be Es. 1.98 million.
On the basis of projected foreign currency commitments IBS would need the equi-
valent of Ls. 4.8 million (about US$14 million) through June 1977. The proposed
IDA credit of $7 million and potential credits from the Kuwait Fund ($5 million)
and KfW (about $2 million) should meet the bulk of IBS' requirements up to
mid-1977. IBS has agreed that it will protect itself from exchange risk in
respect of all its foreign borrowings and will pass on the risk to the ultimate
borrowers.



x.        IDA's objectives in this operation are to provide capital to deserving
entrepreneurs desirous of setting up viable projects, to continue the institu-
tion building program initiated at the approval of the first credit, namely
the improvement of IBS' appraisal and follow-up procedures, and to help IBS
develop sound investment policies; these should enable IBS in due course to
strengthen its portfolio and financial position, to improve the design of its
projects and to assist on-going projects in their operations. IBS plans to
start doing some promotional work but its financial and administrative con-
straints would limit its role in this area in the near future. IBS has sought
IDA's assistance in locating an 'experienced advisor to set up a Project Promo-
tion Department. IDA has agreed to help select a suitable person.
xi.       It is recommended that an IDA credit of $7 million be approved for
on-lending by the Sudanese Governemnt to IBS at 8.5%. The risk of fluctuation
in the rate of exchange between the Sudanese Pound and the U.S. Dollar would
be borne by IBS' borrowers. IBS will not assume any foreign exchange risk.
IDA would require prior approval of each project using more than $100,000 of
the proceeds of the proposed credit; the aggregate free limit would be $1.75
million. The credit would be on-lent to IBS by the Sudanese Government for a
period not exceeding 15 years, with a flexible amortization schedule conforming
to the aggregate of the repayment schedules of IBS' borrowers.






APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS) was established in 1961 as
a statutory corporation and commenced operations towards the end of 1962.
IDA extended its first credit of $4 million to IBS in November 1973, which
IBS has now committed. Following a request from IBS and the Sudanese Govern-
ment for a Second Credit, an appraisal mission visited IBS in November 1974
and a follow-up mission in April 1975; this report, recommending an IDA Credit
of $7 million is based on the findings of these missions.
II.  ENVIRONMENT
2.01      Sudan has a population of about 17 million and per capita GDP of
about US$-120. It is classified by the U.N. as one of the 25 "least developed"
countries. The country is heavily dependent upon the export of cotton which
accounted for over 55% of the foreign exchange earnings in 1973. The per-
formance of the Sudanese economy over the last six years has been largely un-
satisfactory. The growth rate of GDP in current prices has been less than 5
percent in recent years, and considering the rising rate of inflation, real
growth has been minimal; the manufacturing sector has grown at an average of
6% during the same period.
2.02      The manufacturing sector is relatively small, contributing, as
of 1971 2/, about 10% to 11% to GDP and employing about 240,000 Sudanese or
about 5% of the estimated available labour force. The vast majority of
industrial production in the Sudan is for the domestic market and is pri-
marily oriented towards final consumer products. The major manufacturing
activities are related to the production of foodstuffs, textiles and shoes.
In terms of value added, employment, and wages, textiles is by far the most
important industry. Next in importance is the oil milling industry, which
until recently processed only cotton seeds but has lately started crushing
locally grown groundnuts also. Shoe manufacturing, leather tanning, sugar
mills, flour mills, cement factories, confectionaries and beverage plants are
the other important industries.  The majority of industrial establishments
is relatively small, about 74% employing less than 30 workers each.
2.03      According to a survey carried out for the year 1971 3/, the value
of industrial production amounted to is. 76 million, with food processing
and tobacco accounting for 47%, chemicals a,` non-mineral products 16%,
1/   See IBRD report "The Economic Development and Prospects of the Sudan"
dated June 9, 1972 and "A Survey of the Industrial Sector of Sudan" dated
June 24, 1974 for detailed analyses of the economy and the sector.
2/   Reliable statistics for later years are not available.
3/   By the Industrial Development Center for Arab States (IDCAS) located in
Cairo.



textiles 12%, metal engineering 10%7, and miscellaneous industries 15%.
Limited industrial production statistics for FY73, which are available only
in respect of products subject to excise duties, indicate, with the exception
of cigarette manufactures, an overall increase in manufactures, the major
increases over FY72 being in sugar (from 91,200 tons to 112,600 tons) and
in shoes (from 14.7 million pairs to 17.6 million pairs).
Role of the Private and Public Sectors
2.04      While during the sixtieas the Government set up eight industrial
enterprises involving an investment of bs. 22 million, its attitude towards
private investment was also positive and most of the enterprises existing
today were established during that period. After 1969 private manufacturing
investment declined due to the unstable political environment which culminated
in the nationalizations and confiscations of private enterprises in 1970 and
1971. However, the Government soon modified its policy and initiated measures
to encourage private investment by settling compensation claims of nationalized
enterprises, returning confiscated property and enacting legislation providing
higher incentives and guarantees fcir private enterprise, both foreign and local
(see para. 2.08). The Government elso declared that it would rely on the pri-
vate sector to step up the rate of new industrial investment and that the
public sector investments would be mainly in projects too large for private
investors, for example in sugar mills, tanneries, kenaf bag factories, etc.
These actions have considerably improved the investment climate and private
investors, both foreign and local, are showing considerable interest in the
industrial sector. During the year ended October 1974, the Ministry of
Industry issued licenses for the sEtting up of about 200 industrial units in
the private sector involving investment of over Es. 120 million. Of these,
16 licenses have been issued for settting up new spinning and weaving factories
and 57 for small enterprises to marnufacture readymade garments and specialized
textiles 1/, involving a total investment of over Es. 93 million. The remain-
ing licenses are for a variety of manufacturing activities 2/, most of them
for small and medium-scale enterprises 3/. While not more than 25% of the
licensed investment is likely to be realized within the next two years due
to infrastructure deficiencies, lack of manpower skills and inadequacy of finan-
cial resources, the figures point to a definite renewal of interest. Many of
the licensees have already contacted IBS for financial assistance.
1/   Socks, bedsheets, towels, thread, sweaters, etc.
2/   Made up of:  33 units for food industries Ls. 15 million
33 units for chemical industries Es. 5 million
32 units for leather and plastic goods is. 4 million
30 units for engineering industries bs. 1 million
2 units for building industries Es. 2 million
3/   In this report, an enterprise having fixed assets of a value not exceed-
ing Es. 70,000 is defined as a small-scale enterprise and an enterprise
having fixed assets of a value over Es. 70,000 but not exceeding Es.
Ls. 870,000 is defined as a medium-scale enterprise.



- 3 -
2.05      The public sector, which owned eight industrial enterprises in
the sixties, assumed considerable importance in 1970 when a number of indus-
trial firms were nationalized. Although many of these were returned to the
private sector in 1972, the Government-owned enterprises still represent
about 50% of the value of net fixed assets of all industrial enterprises in
the Sudan. Recently the Government has completed the construction of a new
tannery and a new foundry in Khartoum as well as the expansion of a brewery;
other projects under construction are two sugar mills, another tannery, a
Kenaf bag factory, and a textile mill. These projects involve a total invest-
ment of over Ls. 43 million. With the exception of a sugar mill, in which
foreign collaborators have a minority share holding, all the projects are
wholly owned by the Government although most of these proJects have foreign
technical collaboration. The completion of these projects, and others in
advanced stages of planning (para. 2.12), is likely to enlarge the share of
the public sector in the ownership of industrial enterprises.
Industrial Policies
2.06      The Ministry of Industry and Mining is responsible for the defi-
nition and implementation of industrial policies. The main policy instru-
ment is the "Development and Encouragement of Industrial Investments Act
1974" 1/. This Act defines what the Government considers the most desirable
projects, the concessions available and the regulatory powers of the Ministry.
The Ministry performs three main functions: (i) it screens applications
received for licensing or for concessions; (ii) it allocates foreign exchange
for import of capital goods, raw materials and spare parts; and (iii) it regu-
lates ex-factory prices of locally produced goods.
2.07      Licensing.  Licenses are required (irrespective of whether incentives
are sought) before a new enterprise can be set up or an existing one expanded.
Applications for licenses and incentives are submitted to the Ministry of
Industry which screens them and submits them to "the Advisory Committee for
Industrial Development" (ACID) for the necessary recommendation to the Minister.
ACID consists of representatives of the Ministries of Industry, Finance and
National Economy, Local Government, Housing and Community Development, Council
of National Planning, Bank of Sudan, Central Electricity and Water Corporation,
Sudan Manufacturers Association and three other members appointed by the
Minister of Industry 2/.
2.08      Incentives.  Criteria for granting incentives to industrial projects
are so broad that every application is likely to meet some of the criteria.
The main concessions are exemption from business profit tax for five years
(fifteen years tn certain cases), accelerated depreciation rates for working
two and three shilfts, exemptions from customs duty on imported machinery,
spare parts and raw materials and from excise duty on local raw materials,
1/   The Original Investment Act was passed in 1967; it was revised in 1972
and again in 1974.
2/   Mr. Hassan Ahmed Mekki, Deputy Managing Director, Industrial Bank of
Sudan, has been appointed as a member.



*.4-
and tariff protection and quotas on competing imports. Foreign investors
have, in addition, been guaranteed remittance of profit and repatriation of
capital; they have also been given guarantees against nationalization
without fair compensation, and against confiscation.
2.09      The Ministry of Industry lhas limited appraisal capabilities; most
of its staff is not trained in economic and financial evaluation of projects.
Generally, the criteria of import substitution and use of domestic raw materials
are considered adequate for licensing of projects irrespective of project
efficiency. Prices of locally manufactured goods are fixed by allowing a mark-
up of 5-15% on the production costs furnished by the enterprises, which, how-
ever, the Ministry staff is unable to verify. The method of allocation of
foreign exchange until some time ago was such that in many instances alloca-
tions for import of capital equipment received preference over allocations
for import of raw materials and spare parts. However, in the recent past,
the Government has not made any sizeable allocations for import of capital
equipment. Almost all the recent capital imports have been financed out of
suppliers' credits or bilateral credits.  Manufacturing in the Sudan is pro-
tected by high tariffs and import quotas, and given the liberal incentives
and the method of price fixation of local manufactures, the effective rates
of protection in many cases are high 1/.
2.10      Industrial Sector Survey.  The Bank's industrial sector mission,
which visited the Sudan during November-December 1973, has reported that
the -manufacturing sector is characterized by a high degree of unutilized
capacity and that in a number of cases inefficiency co-exists with high
profits. Many public sector enterprises, including some of the agro-industrial
projects set up in rural areas in the mid-sixties, are operating below capacity
and incurring losses. The problems affecting the manufacturing sector in general
stem from three different causes, namely, inadequate infra-structure (mainly
transportation and, to some extent, power), lack of appropriate manpower, and
some of the industrial policies (para. 2.09) pursued in the country. Moreover,
mnany public sector projects are also affected by ineffective management, and
face bureaucratic red tape even in routine operational decisions. The Bank's
main recommendations in respect of the existing industrial policies include
gradual reduction of protection, regulation of ex-factory prices on the basis
of import prices and rationalization of excise duties. Regarding public sector
enterprises, the Bank has recommended the introduction of simplified operational
and administrative procedures, the granting of discretionary powers to the
managers to expand profitable operations and to phase out losing ones. The
other major recommendations relate to the need for improving the appraisal
capabilities of the public sector, and special attention to export possibilities
of Sudanese industry.
1/   The Industrial Sector Mission's calculations of the effective rate of
protection based on limited data point towards this conclusion. The
industries having the highest effective rates of protection are ready-
made clothes, textiles, refrigerators and air conditioners, plastic
goods and shoes.



-5-
2.11      The Government has already initiated a number of major projects
to improve the transportation situation, and expansion of power facilities
is also under way. However, the skills to operate the system and other infra-
structure facilities may not be commensurate with the requirements of the
ambitious investment program envisaged by the Government. The program, there-
fore, will have to recognize the effective presence of these constraints.
On the industrial policy issues raised by the industrial sector mission, while
detailed discussions with the Government have not taken place so far, under-
standing has been reached on some issues. The Bank plans to continue discussions
with the Government in the broader context of the report (under preparation)
of the ILO Comprehensive Employment Mission, which visited Sudan recently and
which is in general agreement with many of the issues raised in the Bank's
sector report. A major reform of industrial policies can be expected to take
several years to implement. Meanwhile, the Government is also seeking technical
assistance from international institutions to improve the appraisal capabilities
of the Ministry of Industry and to streamline the working of the public sector
enterprises. Improved project appraisal techniques recently introduced by
IBS will help to ensure with respect to the range of enterprises it finances
that they are economically sound.
Scope for Industrial Investment
2.12      The original Five-Year Development Plan (FY71 - FY75) 1/ set a
global target of a 57% increase in mining and manufacturing production.
It also planned total investments in industry of Ls. 60 million, of which
Ls. 36 million was to be public and bs. 24 million private. The priorities
were to manufacture new products and to meet domestic demand for textiles
and clothes, footwear, sugar and processed foods, and vegetable oils. Due to
shortage of funds and limited executing capabilities, public investments so
far (Is. 12 million) have been well below the plan targets, but the situation
is changing rapidly as a result of investment interest by a number of foreign
investors in joint ventures with the Government. Recently the Government
has given top priority to production of textiles and sugar, initially to sub-
stitute for imports and eventually to produce a surplus for export. Regard-
ing textiles, there has been major activity in both the public and the private
sectors. In the public sector, two textile mills with foreign collaboration
have been approved; one involving an investment of Ls. 4 million is under c
construction and the other is in an advanced stage of planning. The Govern-
ment is going ahead with plans for setting up further seven textile mills
(6s. 35 million). Concerning sugar industry, two new sugar mills (Cs. 77
million) are being set up in the public sector with foreign collaboration.
Other pilanned investments in the public sector are a kenaf bag factory
(is. 10 million) and a Urea fertilizer factory (Es. 23 million).
1/ The plan has been extended to FY77 making it a seven-year plan.



- 6 -
2.13       Reliable data on private investments during the plan period are
not available, but it is estimated that the original plan target of is. 24
million will be exceeded. PrivatE investment interest is currently focussed
on projects in textiles, building materials, oil milling, chemicals, rubber
and leather products, and food processing industries. In the textile sector,
a large integrated textile mill, involving spinning, weaving, and finishing
facilities has recently gone into production and two others 1/ are under
construction.
2.14       The unprecedented investment interest in the textile sector has been
stimulated by a master plan for development of the textile industry, approved
by the Government some time ago. The plan is to be implemented over 15 years
in three phases: the first phase, involving installation of 153,000 new
spindles, 3,600 new looms and a central dye-house, aims at satisfying the local
demand for cotton fabrics by substituting local production for imports, thp
second phase envisages expansion of spinning capacity for exporting yarn, and
the third phase involves local production of grey fabrics for export.
Financing of Industry
2.15       Until 1973, IBS was the only specialized financial institution
providing medium and long-term credits for the industrial sector in the
Sudan. However, its role remained exceedingly modest due to lack of foreign
exchange resources and the low level of investment activity during the late
sixties and early seventies. IBS also concentrated its activities on finan-
cing the small and medium-size enterprises, which did not have easy access to
supplier's credits or commercial bank credits; these credits, together with
retained earnings, constituted the traditional sources of long-term industrial
finance. Most large scale private or Government projects, such as those men-
tioned in earlier paragraphs, were beyond IBS' financial and administrative
resources. Reliable statistics regarding the magnitude of supplier's, credits
are not available, but they are believed to have been a major source. Com-
mercial banks, while providing essentially short-term credit, also met to
some extent the long-term credit requirements of their important clients
through roll-overs of short-term credits and by issuing guarantees for suppliers'
credits. Total short-term credits to private industry by commercial banks rose
from 16s. 27 million in June 1971 to I>s. 52 million in December 1973, an increase
of over 90% which indicates that a fair amount of short-term credit was probably
used for fixed asset financing. Medium and long-term credit by commercial
banks to the private sector, representing mostly consolidation of short-term
debts, remained steady at about Es. 11 million from June 1971 through June 1973.
2.16       While the above pattern of industrial financing appears to have
met the limited long-term credit needs of the manufacturing sector prior
to 1973, it is no longer appropriate for the projected requirements of the
private sector. At the instance ot IMF, the Bank of Sudan has prescribed
global ceilings beyond which the commercial banks are not allowed to expand
credit despite their current liquidity. Further, because of the tight foreign
exchange position, commercial bank credit cannot be utilized to finance im-
ported machinery and equipment. The tied nature of suppliers' credits and
1/   One financed by IBS and the ocher by IFC.



their fairly short terms have imposed quite a heavy burden on the Sudanese
economy and the project beneficiaries. Consequently IDA's first credit of
$4 million to IBS, while modest in amount, helped to fill an important gap
in the supply of credit to the private industrial sector. While IBS' contri-
bution to the overall investment in the manufacturing sector is relatively
small at present and will remain so in the near future, its operations are
assisting the development of an important segment of the manufacturing sector,
the Sudanese entrepreneurs, who are unable to draw upon alternative sources
of finance. IDA's continued support of IBS will, therefore, be critical for
the development of the small and jnedium-scale private industrial sector in the
Sudan.
2.17      In view of the vast financial requirements for the implementation
of the ambitious investment program of both the public and the private sectors,
which IBS can only partially meet, two new development financing institutions
are in the process of being organized. These are the Sudan Development Cor-
poration (SDC) and the Sudanese Investment Bank (SIB). The Government has
spelled out the respective roles of these institutions and their operations
are not likely to affect those of IBS, except to a very limited extent. It is
proposed that SDC (wholly Government-owned) will operate mainly in the public
sector and finance very large enterprises of national scope. SIB is proposed
to be a predominantly private investment institution, operating multi-sectorally
and concentrating on making equity investments and financing foreign trade.
Annex 1 briefly describes these institutions as well as another institution,
the Sudanese Kuwaiti Investment Co., (SKIC) which was set up in 1973.
The Industrial Production Corporation (IPC)
2.18      The Industrial Production Corporation is the managing agency for
the eight state-owned enterprises set up before 1970 as well as for the 24
enterprises nationalized in 1970. Of the 38 firms originally nationalized,
14 with fixed assets of about Ls. 8 million have been returned to the private
sector since June 1971; IPC has retained a token shareholding and a board
seat on these companies. IPC has organized itself as a holding company
having four subsidiaries responsible for specific sectors, namely, sugar,
leather, food, and miscellaneous industries. The net fixed assets of the IPC
managed concerns were estimated at Ls. 50 million. Although IPC does not pub-
lish a consolidated balance sheet or the financial statements of its subsidia-
ries, several projects are operating below rated capacities and incurring
losses (see para. 2.10). IPC has recently approached UNDP for a multi-
disciplined teaTi of experts, for a period of two years to assist streamline its
procedures and .o look into the operational problems of some of its on-going
projects. The primary responsibility for planning, promoting and executing
public sector industrial projects rests with the Ministry of Industry and IPC
formally takes over only on completion. However, there is close cooperation
and consultation between the Ministry and IPC throughout the planning and
implementation stages.



- 8 -
III. THE COMPANY
Background
3.01      IDA approved its first credit of $4 million to IBS in November
1973. The objectives were to strengthen IBS both technically and financially,
enabling it to take on a larger role in providing term financing to the
industrial sector. Apart from the lack of foreign resources, the main weak-
nesses in IBS' organization and operations identified at the first appraisal
were inappropriate recruitment and compensation policies, inadequate proced-
ures for financial and economic appraisal of projects, lack of a regular
follow-up system, and inadequate provision for doubtful debts. By the time
negotiations took place in August 1973, IBS had, at IDA's request, made adequate
provisions for doubtful debts, rec:ruited some staff of the right disciplines
and improved its salary scales. At the negotiations, understandings were
reached, among other issues, on a program for improving appraisal procedures
and setting up a regular follow-up system. In order to facilitate the imple-
mentation of these programs, IDA (i) helped recruit an Investment Advisor,
funded by UNDP, to improve IBS' appraisal and follow-up procedures; (ii) ar-
ranged for IBS' Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director to visit ex-
perienced DFCs, to observe and discuss with their managements operation
planning and control methods; and (iii) arranged for training of three middle
level IBS staff members, two in EDI's Industrial Projects Course in November/
December 1973 and the third in the Development Banking Course in January/
March 1975. While IBS' progress in strengthening the organization and improving
its procedures was slow until November 1974, it has since made adequate pro-
gress in these areas.
Capital
3.02      IBS' paid-in share capital, wholly owned by the Bank of Sudan,
was increased from Ls. 2.8 million to is. 3 million during 1974; the Bank of
Sudan has agreed to increase it by a further is. 1 million in two tranches
of Ls. 500,000 each by June 1976.
Organization and Procedures
3.03      Board of Directors.  Annex 2 contains a list of IBS' Board members.
There have been no noteworthy changes since 1973. The Board meets once a
month to approve all investments above Ls. 2,000.  Investments below ibs. 2,000
can be.approved by the Managing Director. The qualitative evaluation of
projects undertaken by the Board has been reasonable; projects have been
rejected because the Board considered certain industries of low priority to
the Sudanese economy and also on market and competition considerations.  With
an improvement in IBS' appraisal capability, the Board has recently been given
better financial and economic data on which to base its decisions.



- 9 -
3.04      Management.  Mr. Mahdi Ahmed, 46, who was appointed Managing Director
in October 1971, remains in that position. Mr. Hassan Ahmed Mekki, 40, who
has been with IBS since its inception, was appointed as the Deputy Managing
Director in May 1973.
3.05      In the interval since the first IDA credit was made, IBS' senior
management has succeeded in giving IBS a much more dynamic posture in the busi-
ness community than heretofore, although progress in developing IBS' internal
procedures and improving the quality of its work has been slower than expected.
3.06      Investment Advisor.  To help IBS improve its operations and proced-
ures, IDA recruited an investment advisor, Mr. Palia, who joined IBS in February
1974 on a two-year contract financed by UNDP. He is on leave of absence from
the Industrial Development Bank of India where he has worked for the last eight
years; prior to joining IBS, he was a manager in the Project and Economics
Department. Although Mr. Palia has all along made worthwhile suggestions for
the improvement of IBS' operational procedures, IBS' management has only recently
started making adequate use of his services. This is a welcome development
which should accelerate the improvement in IBS' appraisal and supervision skills.
3.07      Staffing.  IBS' organization plan is shown in Annex 3.  IBS has a
total staff of 74 of whom 30 are professionals. The company is still over-
staffed in relation to its level of operations although there is a lack of
senior experienced staff. However, some of the middle and junior level staff
have good potential and with further experience should prove valuable assets
to the institution. IBS' present salary scales are lower than those of com-
parable financial institutions in the Sudan. In order not to impair its
ability to recruit and retain suitably qualified staff, IBS, with the approval
of its Board and the Ministry of Finance, has engaged the-services of a manage-
ment consultancy firm to devise for its staff a suitable compensation package.
The consultants' recommendations are expected shortly and IBS hopes to improve
its salary scales within the next few months.
3.08      The Projects Department is responsible for appraising projects and
supervising IBS' investments until they have been fully disbursed. The depart-
ment has fourteen professionals operating in three sections (i.e. economic,
technical and financial). The position of head of this department has recently
been filled by internal promotion. The incumbent has been with IBS for about
11 years and was trained in EDI's Industrial Projects Course in 1973. Since
his appointment he has been successful in implementing a number of procedural
improvements which are reflected in the better quality of some of the recent
project appraisals.
3.09      Appraisal Procedures.  Technical and marketing aspects of project
appraisals are generally satisfactory. The technical section evaluates the
whole factory and production facilities, reviews the suitability of produc-
tion machinery from cost, maintenance, spares, and level of technology stand-
points, as well as the implementation schedule of the project and its opera-
tional cost structure. The economic section undertakes market surveys to
determine the size and level of competition in the market. The financial
section advises on the amount of the loan, evaluates security and determines



- 10 -
the loan repayment period; it also coordinates the reports for Board sub-
mission. Although financial appraisal until recently was not satisfactory,
it has improved in the past few months. As agreed with IDA, IBS is now
calculating the internal economic rate of return on import substitution projects
using $75,000 or more of IBS' funds.
3.10      IBS is contemplating to undertake some promotional activities but
lacks the necessary expertise. During the negotiations IBS representative
asked for Bank Group's assistance in locating an advisor to help set up
a Project Promotion Department. During the past few months IBS staff has
conducted preliminary surveys of some of the relatively less developed regions
of the country to identify potential for development of small enterprises.
IBS is now planning to prepare a few feasibility studies and to get some of
the prospective investors from those regions interested in making investments
in projects identified by IBS to be profitable. While IBS does not presently
possess the expertise to make rapid strides in these activities the Bank Grnup
is supporting IBS in these endeavours and will try to help recruit an experi-
enced advisor to set up the necessary organization within IBS.
3.11      The Follow-Up Department which was set up in 1972 to undertake all
supervision activities following full disbursement, employs six professionals.
Supervision visits to projects were undertaken by IBS' staff on an ad hoc basis
and supervision reports wei-e sketchy, only identifying the problems of projects
in general terms and not making any recommendations for their resolution.
Regular financial statements were not required from the clients and financial
evaluation of problem projects was seldom done. IBS has now introduced the
basic follow-up system and is in the process of establishing with its clients
a reporting system requiring progress and operation reports at certain intervals.
Although the initial response has been poor, IBS' supervision staff is now
taking steps to explain IBS' reporting requirements to its clients, when inspec-
ting projects, and assisting them i,n completing the reports and in maintaining
essential financial information regarding the operations of their prOjects.
A senior engineer of this department recently received training in EDI's
Development Banking Course, and has been asked by IBS' management to implement
the recently introduced follow-up system. The Investment Advisor (see para.
4.06) is also helping improve departmental procedures. During negotiations,
IBS agreed to implement at full speed the recently introduced follow-up system.
3.12      The Treasury Department employs three professionals.  Book-keeping
has improved in the last 18 months and is now adequate. The department
assists in the development of annual forecasts for IBS' operations. Since
December 1974, IBS has started drawing up periodic accounts and reports to
meet IDA's reporting requirements.
3.13      Legal Department.  A senior legal advisor joined IBS in 1973 and
has been effective in negotiating the recovery or rescheduling of a number
of delinquent loans.



- 11 -
3.14      Auditors.  Messrs. Hamadto and Co. were appointed as IBS' auditors
in April 1974. While the audit of IBS' 1973 accounts broadly followed the
Bank Group's guidelines for DFC audits, the auditors did not independently
evaluate IBS' problem projects. A similar deficiency has been noted in their
audit of IBS' 1974 accounts. This is partly due to non-availability in IBS
of borrowers' financial statements. Consequently, Hamadto's audit report for
1974 contained a qualification regarding inadequacy of provisions for losses
(see para. 4.08). While the audit has improved, there remain deficiencies
which need to be corrected; after further discussion with IBS on this matter,
it may be that a change in either.the scope of the audit or the appointment
of new auditors may be required.
Operating Policies
3.15      There has been no change in IBS' operating policies since the
first credit (See Annex 4). IBS continues to lend in a large number of
projects, up to its maximum of two-thirds of the total cost of a project.
Although IBS no longer finances interest during construction period by capital-
izing and adding it to the principal amount of the loan on completion of a
project, IBS' management should continue to exercise caution in financing
projects to this limit to prevent the debt servicing burden becoming too heavy.
IBS' management has agreed that the size of its investments would respond to
the reasonable financial requirements of the project and not be predominantly
at the maximum investment level, in order to help reduce the risk exposure in
the loan portfolio. Similarly, IBS' management appreciates that there should
be a sectoral spread of investments to reduce the risk exposure in any one
sector.
Lending Terms
3.16      IBS presently charges interest at 8.5% on medium-term (2-6 years)
local currency loans and 9.5% on long-term (6-15 years) and all foreign exchange
loans. These rates have become somewhat out of line with the interest rate
structure prevalent in the Sudan. Commercial banks usually charge 10-11%
on short-term industrial advances. At IDA's insistence, IBS has agreed to
charge a minimum of 10% on all its future sub-loans, with the exception of
local currency sub-loans to small- and medium-size enterprises (having fixed
assets whose original value is about is. 100,000) in the relatively less
developed regions of the country, for which IBS will charge 8-1/2%. IBS strongly
felt that unless it had the discretion to charge a lower rate on such local
currency sub-lo-ns, its efforts to promote projects and increase the level
of operations il. these areas will be hampered. Such loans are not likely to
account for more than 10-15% of IBS' operations in the near future. IBS also
agreed that its interest rates would at all times be commensurate with the
average interest rates prevailing in the Sudan.



- 12 -
3.17      In the case of foreign currency sub-loans (about 70% of IBS' total
commitment), whether financed out of IDA Credit or other foreign credits,
the risk of fluctuation in the rate of exchange between the relevant foreign
currency (U.S. dollars in the case of IDA Credit) aand the Sudanese pounds will
be passed on to the ultimate borrowers. Although the spread available to IBS
on sub-loans under the second IDA Credit would be decreased (from 2.25% under
the first IDA Credit to 1.5%), the loss would be more than made up by the much
higher spread likely to be available on the Kuwait Fund and KfW credits. As
the repayment periods of these credits are likely to be longer than the maturi-
ties of the sub-loans made thereunder, IDA has suggested to IBS acceptable
options whereby IBS would continue to protect itself from foreign exchange
risk without having to prepay these low-cost borrowings. IBS charges a com-
mitment fee of 0.75% per annum on undisbursed amounts of loans commencing
from the date of signing of loan contract. The fee for a guarantee is 2%
per annum. As security for its loans, IBS obtains a first mortgage on the
fixed assets of the project it finances.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
3.18      IBS' procurement policies require clients to submit at least two
tenders for the purchase of equipment plus spares for two years operation
on all purchases of a value greater than Ls. 50,000 and also explain their
choice of ultimate supplier; if these are not satisfactory, IBS may seek
additional quotations. IBS' technical department approves, where possible,
processes which are compatible with the level of technology existing in the
Sudan. Availability of spares, maintenance and technical advisers are also
taken into consideration apart from cost and delivery criteria. IBS' procure-
ment procedures are adequate. Disbursements in local cutrency are made against
invoices for items specified in the loan agreements. Foreign exchange disburse-
ments are usually made against letters of credit.
IV. OPERATIONS, PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Past Operations
4.01      While, due to lack of data, it is not possible to determine IBS'
share of industrial investment in the Sudan during the past two years, in
absoluteterms IBS' operations have expanded significantly (See para. 4.03).
It has predominantly financed small- and medium-size industrial projects
owned by Sudanese entrepreneurs. Some of IBS' financing has helped existing
enterprises modernize operations or increase capacity; however, most of its
loans have been for new enterprises sponsored by entrepreneurs who were here-
tofore engaged in trading and other commercial activities. The important
sectors financed by IBS are textiles, building materials, food processing
and oil mills. While IBS has only very recently started calculating internal
economic rate of return on import substituting projects, its financing record
shows that it has all along financed economically sound projects, most of
which are based on local raw materials. These projects have generally been
labour intensive, providing employment to an estimated 4,400 workers, the



- 13 -
average investment per worker being about $7,700. The first IDA credit
enabled IBS to directly finance purchases of equipment for seven projects as
opposed to guaranteeing suppliers' credits as it had previously done. The
three major projects financed under credit 447-SU had estimated economic
rates of return ranging from 19% to 39%; two of these projects accounting
for 82% of the US$4.0 million credit will utilize local cotton in a textile
mill and limestone in an asbestos pipe factory. The other smaller projects
are also economically sound. In view of its limited appraisal capabilities,
IBS' promotional activities and impact on the design of projects have not
yet been significant but it proposes to play a more active role in these area
in the future (See para. 3.10). On two occasions recently, IBS helped mobilize
savings by bringing together potential investors for financing sound and viable
projects.
4.02      It the past IBS has provided only loans and guarantees with the
exception of two equity investments. 1/ Although IBS charter was changed in
1973 to allow investment in public enterprises, only one such investment has
been made. 2/ Annex 5 analyses the 145 loans approved by IBS since its incep-
tion, by location, industry and size. The average size of IBS' loans has
been i's. 23,800. As of December 31, 1974, 85% of the number of loans made
were for less than Ls. 4J,000; these loans represented 37% of the total value
of loans approved. The loans are diversified by industry with no more than 18%
of the number of loans approved and 25% of the total value approved being for
one particular sector. Over half the loans approved, representing 56% by
amount, were for projects located in the Khartoum/Omdurman area; Blue Nile
province had approximately 13% of the loans accounting for 30% of the amount
of loans. The remaining one-third accounting for 14% of the loan amount are
spread across the country. Wider geographical dispersal of Sudanese industries
is currently difficult to achieve because of deficiencies of the transportation
and power systems but is an objective receiving the Government's support.
IBS is also launching an information campaign to make its services better known
throughout the country.
4.03      Annex 6 gives a summary of IBS' operations between 1970 and 1974.
The volume of operations has fluctuated widely reflecting changes in the
investment climate and the availability of foreign exchange resources to
IBS. Due to political changes which resulted in the nationalization measures
of 1970, the level of approvals that year was low (h6s. 418,000). In 1971
after the nationalization policies were modified and incentives were offered
by Government to industrial investors (See paras. 2.04 and 2.08) total approvals
reached ia. 722,000, including guarantees for 'L. 445,000 on 13 projects in the
oil milling industry. In 1972 the level of loan approvals was maintained at
1971 revels whilst the value of guarantees decreased significantly (from
Ls. 445,000 in 1971 to Ls. 77,000 in 1972). The large increase in 1973 of
1/   Nile Cement (Ls. 438,360) and Plastic Sacks (Ls. 7,000).
2/   Red Sea Tannery Ltd., originally set up as a private enterprise but
nationalized in 1970.



- 14 -
loans approved at Es. 1,581,000 was due to the prospect of the IDA credit
becoming available and the large demand by Sudanese industrialists for foreign
exchange resources to purchase machinery and equipment. In 1973, IBS also
guaranteed suppliers credits valued at is. 423,000. In 1974, however, only
one guarantee for is. 88,000 and seventeen loans for is. 383,000 had been
approved. This low level of operatiors was due to thr unexpected deferral
of two loan proposals for Es. 755,000 by IBS' Board in December for some
clarifications. However, approvals picked up again during the first half
of 1975 when IBS approved nine loans for Es. 1.466 million.
Guarantees
4.04      Since inception IBS has issued guarantees on 20 projects involving
a total guarantee amount of Es. 1,549,000. Annex 7 analyses the 20 projects
by size, maturity, sector and location. Guarantees for over is. 100,000 each
have been approved on four projects involving 77% of the total guarantee amount
approved. The maturities on 70% of the number of guarantees were for periods
up to four years; 56% of the total guarantee amount was for maturities above
five years. Oil mills represented 70% of the nirnber of projects to which guar-
antees were approved; however, guarantees to the flour milling sector at 54%
of guarantees approved was the largest single sector by value. Fourteen of the
projects were located in Khartoum Province for 35% of the total guarantee
amount, followed by Kassala Province with 3 projects involving 51% of the
total amount. The amount guaranteed and outstanding at June 30, 1975 was
Ss. 570,000. Since its inception IBS has funded defaults under guarantees
totalling is. 295,000 of which is. 185,000 was outstanding as of June 30, 1975.
IBS finances clients in default at its normal loan interest rates.
Portfolio
4.05      Since inception IBS has made partial or full disbursement on 128
projects of which 43 were fully repaid as of December 31, 1974. However, as
of that date, 46% (Es. 936,000) of IBS' outstanding portfolio of is. 2.03
million involving 18 projects was affected by arrears of over three months.
The overdues amounted to Es. 507,000, which was 25% of the outstanding loan
portfolio. As a result of strenuous efforts made during the past few months,
IBS has been moderately successful in improving the arrears situation. As of
June 30, 1975 the arrear-affected portfolio came down to is. 577,000 (27% of
the total portfolio) and the arrears were reduced to Ls. 485,000 involving
12 projects.
4.06      An important reason for the continuing high level of arrears is
the slow implementation by IBS of supervision procedures which were agreed
with IDA at the time of negotiations for the first Credit. With the imple-
mentation of a regular follow-up system (See para. 3.11), IBS should be in
a position to keep its arrear situation under better control. The present
unsatisfactory situation of IBS' arrears is mainly due to three major defaulters
which account for about 79% of the affected portfolio and 80%w of the arrears.



- 15 -
With the help of the Investment Advisor, IBS has carried out an in-depth eval-
uation of one of the projects (tomato paste canning) and on being satisfied
that the project can operate profitably in the future has recently rescheduled
its repayments. The second project, a cement factory, has also been studied
in depth and the conclusions of the study are likely to be available within
the next few weeks; the third project, a printing and packaging unit is also
proposed to be evaluated towards the end of October 1975. (See para 4.08)
4.07      IBS has so far made only two equity investments; the major investment
of is. 438,360 is in the Nile Cement Co. Ltd, (the cement plant referred to
in paragraph 4.06 above). This investment was made in 1966 at the Government's
request, who has now agreed to transfer it to the Industrial production Corpo-
ration (IPC) by paying IBS the par value of the shares. The actual payment
may take a little time as IPC at present does not have the necessary budgetary
allocation. The other investment of is. 7,000 is in Plastic Sacks Manufactur-
ing Co. Ltd. which has also remained unremunerative so far.
Provisions
4.08      IBS made specific provisions for losses of is. 101,000 and is. 273,000
in 1971 and 1972 respectively. No provisions were made in 1973 as the auditors
felt the existing provisions were adequate; however, bad debts for is. 14,000
were written off on two projects against specific provisions of is. 66,000.
During 1974 IBS settled four delinquent projects and wrote off is. 81,000
against the specific provisions of is. 182,000. The excess provisions of
is. 153,000 in respect of these projects have been allocated to some other
projects, in consultation with the auditors, including is. 58,000 to the
tomato paste and printing and packaging projects (see para. 4.06). No provi-
sions have been made against the loan to Nile Cement Co. In the notes to 1974
financial statements, the auditors commented that provisions for losses were
inadequate. This, they subsequently explained, was due to the fact that no
specific provision had been made against Nile Cement loan. At the negotiations
IBS agreed to complete its evaluation of chronic delinquent projects (including
Nile Cement) and to submit its proposals for settlement of arrears to IDA;
IBS also agreed to review provisions for losses, in consultation with the
auditors, before the closing of its 1975 accounts. Despite the qualification
in the 1974 audit report, IBS is creditworthy. It has a large equity base
(us. 3.2 million as against an outstanding debt of only is. 804,000 as of
June 30, 1975) and even if it were necessary to write off the entire Nile
Cement loan and outstanding interest (amounting to is. 365,000), which is
unlikely, IBS would still have an adequate equity base. The existing provisions
constitute 13.7% of the total loan portfolio.
Financial Results
4.09      Annexes 8 and 9 give IBS' income statements and balance sheets from
1970 to 1974. IBS made nominal profits in 1970 and 1971. Earnings in 1972
before provisions amounted to is. 36,000 but due to large provisions of



Ls. 273,000 the net result was a loss of over Ls. 237,000. In 1973 !ZS made
no provisions and showed profits of is. 32,000. IBS' 1974 accounts show a
profit of is. 33,000. IBS' yield on its loan portfolio increased from 8.2%
in 1973 to 8.3% in 1974. Gross income on average total assets increased from
5.2% in 1973 to 6.2% in 1974.  This percentage could have been higher but for
the fact that the Bank of Sudan does not allow IBS to buy treasury bills (which
yield 3% per annum) because of the demand for such bills from commercial banks
who are currently liquid due to the Central Bank's credit restrictions.  Although
IBS has a low return on assets, it has had ample debt service coverage in 1974
mainly because there was very little debt in the balance sheet (1974 debt/equity
ratio - 0.07). The debt/equity limit in IBS' charter is 3:1 and hence IBS has
a large debt capacity available. IBS' administrative expenses in 1974 amounted
to 4.7% of average total assets (1973-3.8%) which is quite high and is due to
the large number of IBS' staff in relation to its level of operations.
Financial Position
4.10      IBS' resources, as of June 30, 1975, consisted mainly of its paid-
in share capital of is. 3.5 million, less accumulated losses of is. 289,000,
plus IDA credit 447-SU for US$4 million. The Bank of Sudan has agreed to pay
in a further sum of is. 500,000 before the end of June 1976. The other re-
sources consist of the outstanding balance amounting to is. 42,000 of a
U.S. AID loan made to the Government in 1967 and on-lent to IBS at 4% per
annum; the loan is repayable in semi-annual installments until April 1982.
As of June 30, 1975, IBS had uncommitted resources of 1s. 1.07 million in
local currency and i6s. 109,000 in foreign currency.
V. PROSPECTS
Operational Forecasts
5.01      Forecasts of IBS' operations and financial statements from 1975
through 1979 are shown together with their underlying assumptions in Annexes
11 through 16. The first IDA credit of $4 million to IBS was approved in
November 1973 and became effective in March 1974. In view of IBS' low level
of operations until 1972 and limited appraisal capabilities, it was estimated
that the credit would cover IBS' commitments up to the end of 1975. However,
as a result of an aggressive stance developed by IBS' management in anticipa-
tion of the availability of the IDA credit, IBS' loan approvals in 1973 reached
a high of is. 1.6 million (about $4.5 million). This led to a commitment of
86% of the IDA credit by June 1974. However, the 1974 loan approvals amounted
to is. 383,000 only; this was due to deferral by IBS' Board of two loan pro-
posals for is. 755,000 at their December 1974 meeting, for certain clarifi-
cations. Approvals picked up again during the first quarter of 1975 when IBS
approved six loans for is. 1.265 million.



- 17 -
5.02      Approvals forecast for 1975 are based on the existing IBS' project
pipeline; thereafter, it is assumed that approvals will increase by 10% per
annum. Historically there have been wide fluctuations in the volume of IBS'
approvals due to political changes in the Sudan influencing investor confidence
and demand for resources, and also due to the absence of a secure source of
foreign exchange. The forecasts for future years are dependent on the avail-
ability of such resources.  The pipeline, in addition to a large number of
small projects, includes projects requiring loans in the is. 400,000 - is.
600,000 range and deferrals of such projects could also cause large fluctuations
in the forecast level of approvals; however, IBS' management consider that the
demand for financing is such that alternative projects could be introduced
should deferrals occur. The pipeline consists of approximately 50 projects
covering a wide range of industries involving processing or manufacture of
edible oil,-wheat flour, textiles, foodstuffs, shoes, chemicals, and engineer-
ing goods. The majority of the projects will be in the private sector and
controlled by Sudanese investors.
Resource Requirements
5.03      Annex 13 shows IBS' projected resource position through mid-1977.
IBS' commitments are estimated to be is. 1.98 million in local currency and
the equivalent of is. 4.9 million in foreign currency. As of June 30, 1975
IBS had uncommitted resources of Ls. 1.18 million of which Ls. 1.07 million were
in local currency and hs. 109,000 in foreign currency. IBS' internal cash
generation, net of repayments, during this period is estimated to be Ls. 790,000.
The Bank of Sudan has agreed to increase IBS' paid-in capital by Ls. 1 million
by June 1976 of which Ls. 500,000 has already been paid in. IBS is expected
to receive a payment of iss. 438,360 from the Industrial Broduction Corporation
before the end of 1976 representing the value of its equity investment in the
Nile Cement Co. IBS would thus have a comfortable local resource position at
least up to June 1977. IBS' foreign currency resource gap for the period
1975 to mid-1977 is estimated to be Ls. 4.8 million or about US$14 million.
As IDA was likely to meet only a part of the foreign currency requirements
of IBS to mid-1977, it was recommended to IBS to attempt to diversify its
sources of finance. IBS has done this in recent months and is likely to
receive a credit of about $5 million from the Kuwait Fund shortly; KfW is
also likely to lend about $2 million to IBS in FY76. These three sources
should be able to cover IBS' foreign exchange requirements up to mid-1977.
The terms and conditions of the proposed KfW and Kuwait Fund credits are not
known.  However, IBS has been informally advised that the Kuwait Fund will
lend at 4% for a term of 17 years. IBS has agreed that it will protect itself
from the foreign exchange risk in respect of all foreign borrowings and will
pass on the risk to the ultimate borrowers.
Projected Income and Profitability
5.04      IBS' projected income statements for the years 1975 through 1979
are shown in Annex 14. Net profit after provisions as a percentage of average
net worth is projected to show a steady growth from 0.9% in 1975 to 5.7% in
1979. This improvement in profitability results from the earnings of a



- 18 -
rapidly growing loan portfolio funded from equity and long-term debt sources.
However the rate of return on net worth is still low because: (a) a conserva-
tive average interest rate (9.5%) has been assumed; (b) IBS' liquid funds are
not likely to earn interest; and (c) only part of IBS' long-term debt capacity
is being utilized (1979 Debt/Equity ratio 2:1). The administrative expenses
(including salaries) as a percentage of average total -,,sets should fall from
4.7% in 1974 to 1.4% in 1979.
Projected Balance Sheets
5.05      IBS' projected balance sheets for the years 1975 through 1979 are
shown in Annex 15. Total assets expand rapidly from Es. 2.9 million in 1974
to Es. 5.4 million in 1975 due to the disbursement of the first IDA credit
and the Ls. 0.5 million injection of capital by the Bank of Sudan. Thereafter,
total assets increase steadily with the borrowings; however, the debt/equity
ratio in 1979 will still only reach 2.1. IBS remains relatively liquid with
cash accounts rising to Ls. 1.5 million in 1976 and falling to Es. 0.6 million
in 1979.
Disbursement
5.06      As in the first Credit, the proceeds of the proposed credit would
finance 100% of the c.i.f. cost of direct imports, 35% of the cost of indus-
trial buildings and services and 53% of the cost of vehicles.  These percentages
are based on a study carried out by IBS for the first Credit and would be al-
tered, if necessary, to correspond to the foreign exchange element in these
costs.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The investment climate in the Sudan since the last IDA credit has
continued to be favorable for the development of industries in the private
sector and a number of Sudanese entrepreneurs have already set up or are
planning to set up industrial enterprises. Foreign investors are also collab-
orating with the local entrepreneurs as well as with the Government in setting
up joint ventures. The main stimulus has come from the Government's policy
declaration in 1972 to encourage private and foreign investments in the indus-
trial sector, which was accompanied by the passing of the Development and
Promotion of Industrial Investment Act 1972 providing for liberal incentives
(See para. 2.08). These incentives have been further increased after the
passing of the revised Act in 1974. However, some industrial policies being
pursued in the Sudan (See para. 2.09) are affecting the efficiency of the
industrial sector and the Bank Group has started a dialogue with the Sudanese
authorities and is endeavouring to reach some understandings with the Govern-
ment on the industrial policy issues as early as possible.



- 19 -
6.02      The demand fo/ foreign exchange by small and medium size industries
is considerable and is unlikely to be met on appropriate terms from suppliers'
credits. Further, no other institution in the Sudan is catering adequately
to their needs. In addition to meeting these needs, IBS can help the Govern-
ment to achieve its objective of diversifying exports (vegetable oils, sugar
and textiles) and substituting domestic production based on local raw materials
for imports (textiles and building materials). The prospects for a rapid growth
in IBS' business are good and continued IDA support for IBS will help it grow
into a sound institution with an important role in financing the industrial
sector.
6.03      IDA's objectives in this operation are (i) to provide financial
resources to allow entrepreneurs to set up economically sound and financially
viable enterprises, and (ii) to continue the institution building program
initiated at the approval of the first credit, namely, the improvement of IBS'
appraisal and follow-up procedures and the development of sound investment
policies. This program should enable IBS in due course to improve the design
of its projects, to strengthen its portfolio and financial position, and to
assist on-going projects in their operations. The application of suitable
methods of economic appraisal to IBS projects will also provide useful material
to the Government indicating the appropriateness of specific industrial policies
applied in the Sudan. IBS has included in its future strategy the promotion
of projects, preparation of feasibility studies on a limited scale, provision
of technical assistance to its clients, and a wider geographical distribution
of its financial assistance. Although IBS' administrative capabilities may
not allow it to make significant progress in these areas in the short run,
these intentions are steps in a worthwhile direction.
6.04      IBS' requirements of foreign exchange up to June 1977 are estimated
to be around US$14 million. IBS is likely to receive about $5 million from
the Kuwait Fund within the next few months and a credit of about $2 million
form KfW in FY76. An IDA credit of $7 million, therefore, should cover IBS'
requirements up to mid-1977.
6.05      It is recommended that an IDA credit of $7 million be approved for
on-lending to IBS at 8.5% by the Sudanese Government for a period not exceeding
15 years, with a flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate
of the repayment schedules of IBS' borrowers. The risk of fluctuation in the
rate of exchange between the Sudanese Pound and the U.S. Dollar would be borne
by IBS' borrowers. IBS will not assume any foreign excharnge risk. The other
terms of the proposed credit would be those normally applicable to development
finance compani s for an IDA credit. In view of IBS' improved project appraisals
in the recent past and escalations in the prices of goods to be financed under
the IDA credit, it was agreed during negotiations to increase IBS' free limit
for individual sub-projects from S;75,000 to $100,000 and the aggregate free
limit from $1 million to $1.75 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SUDAN
Financial Institutions
Sudan Development Corporation (SDC)
SDC was established in March 1974 under an Act of the Sudanese
Government as an autonomous public sector corporation wholly owned by
the Government. The authorized capital is the equivalent of US$500 million,
of which $200 million has been subscribed and $100 million paid-in; the
remaining $100 million will be paid in by October 1975 in two tranches of
$50 million each in April and October 1975. The resources to finance this
equity base are from a 10year Eurodollar loan obtained by the Sudanese
Government, at 3/A% over the 6-month London inter-bank rate, from a consortium
of international banks, with the guarantee of Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency.
SDC is empowered to make loans and equity investments in any revenue earning
enterprises, whether public or private. Although not yet functionally
organized, SDC has already made a few comrmitments of about $50 million
(Sudan Railways for purchase of locomotives, two new sugar mills, six
new weaving factories). SDC has not yet issued a formal policy statement,
but it plans to operate mainly in the public sector making investments
in large projects of national scope; that is, its field of operations is
unlikely to overlap with that of IBS. SDC's present pipeline of projects
includes a few large textile mills in the public sector and two more new
sugar mills. SDC's Board of Directors includes, besides its Managing Director
and Deputy Managing Director, the Commissioner for Planning and Development,
Governor of the Bank of Sudan, Managing Director of the oil seeds Corporation
and the Managing Director of the Industrial Bank of Sudan.
Sudanese Investment Bank (SIB)
The private shareholders of the Sudan Commercial Bank (SCB),
which was nationalized in 1970, along with other banks, were recently
awarded compensation, valued at about £s1.6 million, by the Sudanese
Government on the condition that this amount would be invested in the
share capital of a development financing institution. SIB, not yet in-
corporated, is expected to have a subscribed and paid-in capital of £s3
million. SC-ts ex-shareholders will subscribe £s1.65 million (55%), and
the Bank of Sudan £sO.15 million (5%). Sudanese nationals will be offered
£sO.15 million (5%) and foreign financial institutions and business houses
£sl.05 million (35%).  SIB is proposed to be a multi-sectoral operation
embracing agriculture, industry, transport, financing of foreign trade,
dealings in shares etc. In the near future, however, it plans to concentrate
on financing foreign trade and making equity investments in potentially
profitable commercial enterprises. Some industrial financing is also envisaged
but it would be complementary to IBSt activzties. SIB would also operate as
a catalyst for investment funds from Kuwait and other Arab states. With Govern-
ment plans fairly advanced for setting up a small floor in Khartoum for dealings
in shares and securities, SIB may also engage in underwriting and share dealing
activities.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Sudanese Kuwaiti Investment Co. L1td (SKIC)
SKIC is a joint venture between a private Kuwaiti company (Kuwaiti
Foreign Trade and Contracting Co.) and the Sudaniese Government, having a
paid-up capital of £sl million, owned equally by the two partners.  It
started operations in September 1973. The main object of the company is
to promote joint venture companies (with the Sudanese Government and/or
the Sudanese private sector) to utilize the existing Sudanese raw material
resources.  While so far SKIC has been active only in the real estate
business, it has formed four subsidiary companies to operate in (i) road
transportation, (ii) livestock, (iii) building and construction and (iv)
fisheries sectors. The aggregate capitalization of the first three sub-
sidiaries would initially be £s6.75 million. SKIC is also examining the
feasibility of setting up a chain of cold storage plants throughout the
country for preserving vegetables and fruits. SKIC is planning to concentrate
initially in these sectors, but it may also involve itself in financing a
few industrial projects in collabaration with other financing institutions.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 2
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Board of Directors
(As of December 31, 1974)
Board Member                Year of Appointment         Position
Mr. Mahdi Ahmed, Chairman                      1971          Managing Director, IBS.
Mr. Hassan Ahmed Mekki, Deputy Chairman        1973          Deputy Managing Director,IBS.
Mr. Abdalla MohaTmed Fadlalla                  1966          Under Secretary, Ministry
(Mr. Bahaeddin Syed Omar - Alternate)                        of Indust;y and Mining,
Mr. Ahmed Salim                                1974          Representing Ministry of
Finance and National Economy.
Mr. Abdel Rahman Ahmed Osman                   1974          General Manager, Foreign
Dept., Bank of Sudan-
(The following represent the private sector)
Mr. Dafaalla El Hag Yousif Medani              1973          General Manager, Sudan
Textile Industry Ltd. and
Chairman,Sudan Manufac-
turers Association.
Mr. Ali Dongula                                1973          Contractor, Importer and
Exporter.
Mr. Gaafar Atta El Mannan                      1972          Deputy General Manager,
Khartoum Spinning and
Weaving Company.
April 8, 1975



INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
ORGANIZATION CHART
(AS OF MARCH 31, 1975)
| o3arS of Directors
|Managing Director
Mr. Ma,hdi Ahner-
Deputy Managing Drector|
Mr. Ha-- Ahrtd Mekki
I  -.w       thRI               I                    I-d
Project Dep.,fme-t       l                                                                       Follow-up opar-meril                               L,,,l A,ivisol                  Trcasuly Deparlmer,l              Aam. Dei,arilocr,i
Ag. Assiktanm Managing Director                                                                     As iriant Marrog 4 Dicr-i-r                  Mr Awad El Karirnm H--ril Mo).              Mr El Tayeb                   Mr Schiker M-dcci
MW. Farouk Yousif M,,stt                                                                        WMr Has    hl-r Arirled El H-i,- iI 1 Profess onal                                         2 Protrsiiolt                     t Profcsnior,o
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.61 S,. 0-z  
Finoncici Secdiin ||Technical Section ||Economic Section ||Leant Section)|   Tecirnic.ar Section ||Economic Scci.ori 
|4 Prntcrnionolc       3 Professionals  ||6 Profensionolr                                           1 Profnsironal  ||2 Prointrsioralr       2 Protersiona s|
Profrcroall- Siatf      30
Nt,i. Profesi-onaI Staff   44
74
DFCD
April   8,1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-ld Ba,,k 93881R)
PsrouiciTSR
k>)f



ANNEX 4
Page 1
EXTRACTS FROM
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
BY-LAWS
h.  (1)  In the performance of its functions under the Act, the Bank shall
be guided by sound economic, financial and business principles.
(2) No project shall be eligible for assistance by the Bank unless
such project is technically and financially feasible and econom-
ically sound and unless the completion of the project represents
a contribution to the economic development of Sudan.
(3)  In examining and appraising projects, the Bank shall give priority
and special consideration to projects that have obtained, from
the Ministry of Industry and Mining, the qualification of "Approved
Enterprise."
.  The aggregate indebtedness of the Bank shall               Indebtedness
not-exceed three times the aggregate amount                 of the Bank.
of its subscribed and fully paid-up capital
and reserves.
6.  The Bank shall not have a controlling                       Prohibition
interest in any industrial enterprise.                      of controlling
interest.
7.  Until and unless the Board otherwise directs,              Limit of Bank
the Bank shall limit its function to: -                    functions.
(a) extending financial assistance by
granting secured medium and long-
term loans or equity participation
for the establishment, expansion
and modernization of industrial
enterprises;
(b)  giving secured guarantees for payment
for the acquisition of machinery,
equipment, material and services
necessary for the establishment,
expansion and modernization of
industrial enterprise;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c) extending managerial, technical and
administrative assistance;
(d) cooperating with appropriate Government
institutions according to Section 4(l)(f)
of the Act.
PART II - LOANS AND GUARANTEES
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
8.  The Bank shall not invest, ty loans, equity               Maximum
participation or guarantees in any one industrial         Investment
enterprise more than the following percentages of         in different
the aggregate amount of its subscribed and fully          enterprises.
paid-up share capital and reserves:
(a) 20 percent, if the industrial
enterprise is owned and operated
by the public sector, a cooperative
or a limited company;
(b) 15 percent, if the industrial
enterprise is owned by a partnership;
(c) 10 percent in other cases.
9.  (1)  The Bank shall not invest in any project             Maximum
more than two-thirds of the total cost of            Investment.
that project;
(2) The Bank shall not subscribe in equity more
than 10% of its net worth in the share capi-
tal of an industrial enterprise;
(3) The aggregate equity participation of the
Bank shall not exceed its total net worth;
(4) The Bank shall not bear any foreign exchange
risk, such risk should be the responsibility
of the borrower.
10  The Bank shall not consider any loan or guarantees        Prohibition
the object of which is to re-finance or convert an        of financing
existing indebtedness of an industrial enterprise.        indebtedness.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
11.  The duration of every guarantee shall be consid-             Duration of
ered according to the circumstance of that                  Guarantee.
guarantee.
12.  (1)  Interest rates and guarantee fees on loans             Interest Rates
and guarantees extended by the Bank shall be           and Guarantee
determined, from time to time, by the Board.           Fees.
(2)  The categories of loans, as specified in
Section 2 of these By-Laws} may be charged
different rates of interest, but the rate of
interest in one category shall be the same.
(3)  The Board, in determining the interest rate,
shall be guided by: -
(a) the cost of funds acquired by
the Bank for its operation;
(b) the average level of interest
rates in Sudan;
(c) The Bank's operating expenditures;
(d) the requirement of maintaining
the Bank in a sound financial
position, with a particular
view to providing, over and above
those needed for meeting its
operating expenditure, revenues
sufficient for the creation of
adequate funds for reserves and
for the payment of reasonable
dividends on its share capital.
PART III - LOAN AND GUARANTEE SECURITY
13.  The Bank shall require appropriate security for any         Necessity of
loan or guarantee it issues.                                Securities.
14. Without piejudice to the generality of Section 13            Usual
of these By-Laws, the Bank will usually require             Securities.
the following securities: -
(1) (a) a first mortgage on duly registered
immovable property of the Applicant,
including all sites, buildings, fixed
plants and fixed machinery;
1/   Medium-term (2-6 years) and long-term (over 6-15 years) loans.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(b) chattel mortgage in respect of movable assets.
(2) The Bank, at its own discretion, may require:
(a) a guarantee or counter-guarantee by
third person;
(b) the subordination to the Bank claims of
certain existing or future obligations
of the Applicant.
15.  For the purpose of loans and guarantees, the Bank          Security
shall make valuations of any security required and        Valuation.
presented, under Section 13 and 14 of these By-Laws,
and that valuation shall be final.
16. Whether or not the loan or guarantee is advanced,           Expenses of
the Applicant shall pay all expenses incurred by          the Valuation.
the Bank in the process of valuation made by the
Bank.
PART IV - LOANS AND GUARANTEES
PROCEDURES AND AGREEMENT
17.  Every application for loans or guarantees shall be         Application
presented to the Bank in writing.                         for Loans and
Guarantees.
18.  Every loan or guarantee agreement shall be subject         Loans and
to these By-Laws and shall be in writing and shall        Guarantee
be signed by the Nanaging Director and the Borrower       Agreement.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 5
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Analysis o_ Approved Loans
(as of December 31, 1974)
A.  LOCATION                Number of Projects       %       Amount           %
(£s)
1. Khartoum                      77            53    2,410,510           56
2. Blue Nile                     20            13    1,228,418           30
3. Northern                     11              7        92,860           2
4. Kordofan                     10              7        69,736           1
5. Kassala                        7             5       187,636           5
6. Upper Nile                     5             4        77,850           2
7. Equatoria                      5             4        56,520           1
8. Red Sea                        4              3       75,800           1
9. Darfur                         4             3        62,550           1
10. Bahr El Ghazal                 2              1       52,600           1
145       ~~100    431i414§0        100
B.  INDUSTRY
1. Food Processing and Ice       26            18       384,946           9
2. Oil Mills                     25            17       390,614           9
3. Textiles                      21            14    1,070,285           25
4. Printing and Packaging       10               7      310,755           7
5. Engineering Workshops        10               7       88,485           2
6. Chemical                       8              5      153.,468          4
7. Building Materials             7             5       941,950          22
8. Flour Mills                    3             2        88,168           2
9. Miscellaneous                 35             25      885,809          20
145           100    L4X1UA48          100
1/
C. LOAN SIZE                Number of Loans          %    Total Value         %
(Es)
Up to £s 5,000                   60             33      184,431           4
£s 5,001 - 10,000                23            13       172,064           4
£s 10,001 - 20,000              36             20       392,754           9
£s 20,001 - 40,000              34             19       861,874          20
£s 40,001 & above               28             15    2,703,357           63
i81           100                       lo8 J0
Average Size = £s 23,800
Median Size = £s 11,500
1/ Includes supplementary loans to projects.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 6
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
SuTm1ary  f Oertions1970Otol1974
1970       1971       1972      3)73       1974
Approvals
Loans
Gross amount          318        .303       294      1,581       383
Cancellations        170          26         44        -          23
Net amount            148        277        250      1,581       360
No.                     9         16         16         19        14
Guarantees
Net amount            270        445         77        423        88
No.                     2         13          3          2         1
Total Net Approvals
Amount                418       '722        327      2,004       449
No.                    11         29         19         21        15
Conmitments
Loans
Amount               133         201        144      1,090       748
No.                     9         11          8         47        10
Guarantees
Amount                 -         .326       466        423        88
No.                    -          10          8          2         1
Total
Amount                133        527        610      1,513       836
No.                     9         21         16         49        11
Disbursements
Loans                   163         84        157        227       465
DFCD
April 8, 1975



INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Analysis of Guarantees Approved
(as of December 31, 1974)
No. of Projects    %         Amount       _
(Es)
A. Size
Tlp to Ls 20,000                                10           50         125,800        8
Ls 20,001 - 50,000                               4           20         132,200        8
As 50,001 - 100,000                              2           10         105,800        7
Over is 100,000                                  4           20       1,lP5,200       77
20Ff       100       1,549,000      100
Average size   =         Es 77,5oo
Median size    =         Ls 33,000
B. Maturity
Up to 4 years                                   14           70         482,000       31)
Over 4 and up to 5 years                         2           10         200,400       13
Over 5 years                                     4           20         866,600       56
20         100       1,549,000      100
C. Industry
Oil Mills                                       14           70         387,200       25
Flour Mills                                      2           10         837,000       54
Biscuit Factories                                2           10         264,600       17
Miscellaneous                                    2           10          60,200        4
-~           100                      100
D. Location
Khartoum Province                                 14           70         536,400       35
Kassala Province                                   3           15         795,500       51
Kordafan Province                                  1            5          11,700        1
Blue Nile Province                                 1            5         193,000      12
DFCD          Bahr El Ghazal Province                             1            5          12,400        1
April 8, 1975                                                                 101,549,000 



ANNEX 8
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Summary of Income Statements 1970 to 1974
(Amounts in £s'OOO)
Year to December 31               1970      1971       1972      1973       1974
INVESTMENT INC4ME
Interest                         89.4      99.6       118.1     113.6      146.1
Commitment charges                3.3       2.7         1.7       2.0        8.6
Guarantee fees                    1.6       6.3         9.4      15.6       19.3
Miscellaneous income               .8         .5        1.6       2.0        4.7
Interest income d&e to
previous years!                   -     100.6           -                    -
Gross income                     95.1    2Mt.7        l.8       122.2     178.7
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative expenses and
general expenses               75.4      79.9        87.6      94.1    136.4
Depreciation and amortization   11.0        3.5         3.1       2.9        2.9
Interest                          2.7       2.0         4.0       3.8        6.7
Total expenses                  A211      A544       __24lQQ±8  Q
INCOME EFORE PROVISIONS (LOSS)       6.0     124.3        36.1      32.4
PROVISIONS                             -     100.6       273.4         _
INCC(E AFTER PROVISIONS (LOSS)    _6          2]j       (22?Zj2   ....2id
Administrative expenses as a
percentage of average total
assets                          3.6       3.3         3.8       3.8      4.7
Net income after provisions as
percentage of average net J
worth                           0.3       1.1       -10.5       1.3      1.2
I/Accrued interest on past overdue interest payments. An equal amount was set
as provision for non-recovery.
.Ancjudes comnitment charges.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 9
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Suniary of Balance Sheets 1970 to 1974
(Amounts in £s'000)
t1970     1971      1972      1973      1974
As of December 31
ASSETS
Cash and banks                    98       407        275       784       607
Other current assets              22        28         58       139        99
Current assets                   120        435       333       923       706
Loans auttstandingl/           1,571     1,693      1,823     1,753     2,032
Less provisions                  -         (100)     (374)     (360)     (279)
Equity investment                438       438        I45       445       445
Loan and equity portfolio      2,009     2,031      1,894     1,838     2,198
Fixed assets and formation
emenses                         48        45         42        40        40
Total assets                   2 17      2L9J1i     2i9 2L8&            gL944
JABILITIES
Accounts payable and accrued      52         67        52        64        98
charges
U.S.A.I.D. and Czech loans        66         61        71        59        46
Sudan Govt. (IDA Credit)           -          -         -         -        89
Paid-in share capital          2,200     2,500      2,500     3,000     3,000
Accumlated losses               141       117        354      (322)     (282)
Not worth                      2,059     2,383      2,146     2,678     2,711
Total liabilities and equity   2L77      2La        ?A26      L2iU      2 E 4
Guarantees outstanding           202        567       818     1,206       702
Undisbursed commitments            -          -       275       994     1,752
17 Includes interest in arrears.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 10
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Financial Ratios
1971    1972    1973    1974
1)  Income Statement Items as % of Average Total Assets
Gross income                                             8.5      5.5      5.2     6.2
Less:  financial expenses                                0.1       0.2     0.1     0.3
Administrative expenses (Including I)epreciation)        3.5       3.8     3.8     4.7
Gross profit                                             4.9      1.5      1.3     1.2
Less:  provisions for loans and investments              3.9     11.4      -
Net profit (Loss)                                        1.0      (9.9)    1.3     1.2
2)  Income from Loans and Cost of Resources
Income from loans as % of average net loan portfolio  6.5         7.9      8.2     8.3
Cost of all debt,as % of average total debt              2.0      3.4      4.2     6.8
Cost of all long term resources as % of
average long term resources                            0.1      0.2      0.2     0.4
3)  Net Profit
Net profit as % of average equity                        1.1    -10.5      1.3     1.2
4)  Debt to Equity Ratio
Long term debt/equity                                    0.03     0.03    0.02    0.05
Total debt/equity                                        0.05     0.05    0.04    0.07
Debt/equity limit in credit agreement                                      3:1    3:1
5)  Debt Coverage
Interest coverage                                       14.6     10.8      9.8     6.3
Interest and principal coverage                          4.2      4.8      4.3     2.2
6)  Provisions
% Total loan portfolio                                   5.9     20.5    20.5   13.7
1/ A sum of Es 100,567 of default interest was included in 1971 as income.
A provision for an equal sum was also made.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.     Amount of Approvals:
Local and foreign currency loans for 1975 are based on 1975
approvals during the first quarter and on project pipeline;
therafter they are assumed to increase by approximately 10%
per annum. It is assumed that 70% of the loans approved will
be in foreign exchange and 30% in local currency.
2.     Relationship between approvals, commitments and disbursements.
(a) Commitments for 1975 and 1976 include outstanding uncommitted
approvals as of December 31, 1974; 75% of current approvals
are committed in the year of approval and 25% in the following
year;
(b) 1975 and 1976 disbursements include the outstanding undisbursed
commitments as of December 31, 1974. It is assumed that 50%
of current loan commitments will be disbursed in the year of
commitment, 40% in the following year and 10% during the
third year.
3.     No further equity investments are assumed in the projection period.
No dividends are assumed from the existing equity investments.
4.     It is assumed that approximately 5% of loans approved will be can-
celled.
5.     It is assumed that IBS will not declare or distribute dividends
during the projection period;       - -
6.     Collections on existing loans are based on the amortization schedales;
collections on new loans are based on repayment in seven equal annual
installments starting three years after commitment.
7.     An interest rate of 7.25% on the first IDA credit and 8.5% on future
foreign borrowings has been assumed.
8.     The average interest rate on IBS' existing and future foreign ex-
change and local currency sub-loans is assumed to be 9.5% per annum.
9.     Commitment charges: 0.75% per annum on the undisbursed commitments.
10.     Guarantee fee:  2% per annum. It is assumed that no further guarantees
will be issued in the projection period.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
-2-
11.    It is assumed that surplus funds will not earn any interest.
12.    In respect of guarantees already issued it is assumed that
defaults from matured installments during 1975, 1976, 1977 and
1978 would amount to £s35,000, £s28,000, £s20,000 and £slO,000
respectively and would be paid by IBS.
13.    Half of the accrued income and interest in arrears (£s3O4,000 as
of December 31, 1974) is assumed to be written off in 1975 and
the balance repaid in four equal annual installments.
14.    Sales of the equity investments are assumed (£s445,000) and appear
in the 1976 cash flow. It is also assumed that IBS1 paid up capital
will increase by £s500,000 in 1975 and by £s500,000 in 1976.
15.    Salaries will be increased by 5% animally and administrative expenses
by 10% annually.
16.    Frovisions for bad debts have been assumed at 10% of loan collections.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 12
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Projected Operations 1975-1979
(Amounts in £s'UUU)
1975      1976      1977      1978       1979
APPROVALS
Foreign exchange loans           1,890     2,079     2,286      2,516     2,767
Local currency loans               810       891       931     1,078      1,186
2,700     2,970     3,267      3,594     3,953
Guarantees                           _         _         _          _         _
-CCOI?4ENTS
Foreign exchange loans           1,665*    2,114*    2,234      2,458     2,704
Local currency loans              633*       870*      959     1,054      1,159
2,298     2,984     3,193      3,512     3,863
Guarantees signed                    -         -      -        _    _         -
DISBURSEMTS
Foreign exchange loans           1,932**  1,799**   2,129       2,334     2,559
Local currency loans               442**     747-E*    891        997     1,097
Guarantee defaults                  35        28        20         10         _
2,409     2,574     3,040     3,341      3,656
LOAN COLLECTIONS
Foreign currency loans               -         -         95       333       635
LIal currency loans                184       227       219        296       411
184       227       314       629      1,046
*Include commitments in respect of outstanding approvals as of Dec. 31, 1974.
**Include disbursements in respect of outstanding commitments as of Dec. 31, 1974.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 13
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Projected Resource Position
(Amounts in £s '000)
Foreign Exchange Resources                  1975        1976       1977
(As 5Toune)
Uncommitted resources (gap)
at the beginning of year                 133       2,649      1,266
New resources during the year            4,181         731      _
Total resources                          4,314       3,380      1,266
Commitments during the year              1,665       2,114      1,117
Uncommitted resources at the end
of year                                2,649       1,266        149
Local Currency Resources
Uncommitted resources
at the beginning of year                 328        448         864
Net cash generation                        253         341        196
Increase in paid-in capital                500         500          -
Sale of equity investments                   -         4451]
Total resources                          1,081       1,734      1,o60
Commitments during year                    633         870        479
Uncommitted resources at the                                         2/
end of year                              448         864        581
1/ Includes IBS' investment of .£s 7,000 in the equity of Plastic Sacks
factory.
2/ Uncommitted local resources at the end of June 1977.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX14
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Projected Income Statement 1975-1979
(Amounts in £s'000)
Year to December 31          1975      1976      1977       1978      1979
INCOME
Interest on loans             248       466       713        981     1,263
Guarantee charges              18        14        10          8         6
Commitment charges              8        10        11         12        14
TOTAL                 274        490       734     1,001      1,283
EXPENSES
Interest on F.E. loans         78       232        399       511       733
Commitment charges              6         8          8         9        10
Salaries                      104       110       115        121       127
Administrative expenses        37        41         45        49        55
Depreciation                    4         4          4         4         4
TOTAL                 229        395       571        694       929
NET INCOME BEFORE PROVISIONS       45        95        163       307        354
PROVISIONS                         18        23         31        63       104
NET INCOME AFTER PROVISIONS        27        72        132       244        250
TAXATION                            -          -         -        84       125
NET INCOME AFTER PROVISIONS &
TAXATION                       27        72       132        160       125
Income before provisions as
% of average net worth          1.5       2.9        4.5       7.1       6.9
Income after provisions as
% of average net worth          0.9       2.0        3.4       6.1       5.7
Administrative expenses as
% of average total assets       3.5       2.4        1.9       1.6       1.4
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 15
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Projected Balance Sheets 1975-1979
(Amounts in £s'000)
As of December 31                     1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Actual
ASSETS
Cash at bank                         607     894   1,421     927      474     514
Other receivables                     99      99      99       99      99      99
Total Current Assets               706     993   1,520   1 026      573     613
Loans -/                           2,(32   4,067   6,376   9,064  11,738  14,348
Les Provisions                      (279)   (145)   (168)   (199)   (262)   (366)
Equity investments                   445     445      -        -       -       -
Total Portfolio                  2,198   4,367   6,208   8,865  11,476  13,982
Fixed Assets                        40      38      36       34      32      30
TOTAL ASSETS                     23f2 4   5,398   7,764   2i2?5  1?2,01  141625
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                      98      98       98      98      98       98
USAID loan                            46      41      36       31      2
Foreign currency borrowings           89   2,021   3,820   5,854   7,855   9,779
135   2,062   3,856   5,885   7,881   9,800
Paid-in Capital                    3,000   3,500   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,500
(Less Losses) Retained Earnings     (289)   (262)   (190)    (58)    102       227
Net worth                          2,711   3,238   3,810   3,942   4,102   4,727
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY       2)044   5X398  7Y76)4  9L925  12jO8i  141625
Debt/Equity Ratio                0.05    0.64    1.0      1.5     1.92    2.1
Undisbursed Commitments            1,7,52    975   1,386   1,540   1,710   1,918
1/ Includes interest in arrears.
DFCD
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 16
INDIJSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Projected Cash Flow Statements 1975-1979
(Amounts in £s'000)
Year to December 31                  1975      1976       1977      1978       1979
SOURCES
Net income (after taxes)            27         72       132       160        125
Depreciation                         4         4          4         4          4
Provision for bad debts             18        23         31        63        104
Accrued income                      38         38        38        38          -
Foreign exchange borrowings      1,932     1,799      2,129     2,334      2,559
Loan collections - local
currency                        184       227        219       296       411
Loan collections - foreign
currency                          -          -        95       333       635
Accounts receivable - decrease       -          -         -          -         -
Increase in share capital          500       500          -          -       500
Sales of equity investments          -       445          -          -         -
Total Sources                2,703     3,10       2648      3,228     4,338
USES
Disbursement - foreign
currency                      1,932     1,799      2,129     2,334     2,559
Disbursement - local
currency                        477       775        911"    1,007     1,097
Payback - foreign curretcy           5          5       100       338        640
Increase in fixed assets             2         2          2         2          2
Total Uses                   2_416     2,581      3,142     3,681     4,298
Opening balance                    607       894      1,421       927        474
Increase (decrease) in cash        287       527       (494)     (453)        40
Closing balance                    894     1,421        927       474       514
tr
DFCD
April 8,1975



ANNEX 17
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Credit
Amount ($ '000)
1976
Third quarter                                       810
Fourth quarter                                      920
1977
First quarter                                       920
Second quarter                                      940
Third quarter                                       780
Fourth quarter                                      720
1978
First quarter                                       500
Second quarter                                      440
Third quarter                                       380
Fourth quarter                                      280
1979
First quarter                                       140
Second quarter                                       70
Third quarter                                        50
Fourth quarter                                       50
7,000
DFCD
October 9, 1975



