w - ~ ~ ~~~~~o         ll-ilA--       sDS
D)OCuMENT OF INTERNAATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY                    Report No. p-1622a-SU
T.O BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
October 14, 1975
----   -      only 13y the Bank  rou  it may not b e
This  rport  as reard  fox  official use  o1 byation. The  Ban   GrOU o esp
quotd  o  cied  ithut  ank GrouP  autnortzdos otacp
respnsiBitYfortheaccuacyor  ompleteness of the report.



Currency Unit = Sudanese Pound (MSd)
Official Exchange Rate
US$1 = ESd 0.348
ESd 1 = US$2.872
Piasters (Pt) 100 = ESd 1.00
Effective Exchange Rate
US$1 = ESd 0.398
ESd 1 = US$2.50
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 - June 30



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECOND CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FOR
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for the equiva-
lent of $7 million on standard IDA terms for the Industrial Bank of Sudan.
The proceeds of the credit will be on-lent to the Industrial Bank at 8.5
percent interest for a period not exceeding 15 years, with a flexible
amortization schedule.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission from the Bank visited the Sudan in November/
December 1971 and its report entitled "The Economic Development and Prospects
of the Sudan" (Report No. AE-27, in four volumes, dated June 9, 1972) was
distributed on June 30, 1972 (R72-179). This was the first full economic
mission to the Sudan after a lapse of several years but, owing to continued
political unrest in the southern part of the country at that time, the mis-
sion's coverage was limited to Northern Sudan. In March 1972, the Govern-
ment reached an agreement (The Addis Ababa Accord) with the southern dissident
elements, as a result of which peace returned to the South and a Southern
Regional Government with a large measure of autonomy was established in Juba.
At that time, the Bank was requested to assist in the reconstruction and
development of the Southern Region, which had suffered much physical destruc-
tion during the prolonged strife. A special economic mission visited the
Region in November/December 1972, and its report on development problems and
prospects in the Region was distributed on June 25, 1973 (R73-159) (Report
No. 119a-SU, dated June 1, 1973). Country data are attached as Annex I.
Recently Bank staff have participated in the ILO World Employment Mission
to Sudan and this work has served to bring our knowledge of the Sudanese
economy up-to-date and provide new insights into the problems facing it.
The mission's report will be available around the end of 1975.
3.        The Sudan, with an area of one million square miles, is the largest
country in Africa. Although a large part of the country consists of desert
or semi-desert, the Sudan has a great untapped potential for agricultural
development. About one-third (200 million feddans or 87 million hectares)
of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only
a small fraction of this land is presently utilized. In addition, the White
Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has enabled the
country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical Africa. The
Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to over half of that allocated
to Sudan under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there remains room
for a considerable further expansion in irrigation in arid areas of the coun-
try. The proximity of Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places



it in an excellent position for agricultural exports, and oil producing Arab
countries have increasingly come to consider Sudan as a primary future source
of agricultural products.
4.        According to the most recent estimates of population the population
of the Sudan is about 16.5 million people, and has been growing at a rate of
over 2.5 percent a year during the 1960s. Much of the land is unoccupied or
very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many developing countries, there
is no population pressure on presently developed land. Indeed, in some parts
of the Sudan, a shortage of labor in combination with hard soils may dictate
mechanized techniques of agricultural production.
5.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is a poor
country. GNP is estimated at US$125 per capita, and the country is included
among the UN's twenty-five Least Developed Countries. The economy is heavily
dependent on cotton, which is the major commodity produced on irrigated land,
and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its considerable grazing
resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing sector is relatively
small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural commodities, it is
limited to the production of consumer goods and building materials. There
is some potential for mining--chrome, iron ore, asbestos and copper. There
have been some exports of chrome ore and the feasibility of developing the
other deposits is receiving attention. The public sector has long been
important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facil-
ities, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. After the
nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although
some industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about
half of the GDP is still generated within the public sector.
6.        The Sudan's economic development has been disappointing in recent
years. During the period 1965-72, the Sudanese economy was characterized
by relatively slow growth. It suffered from a declining level of investment--
private and public--a marked decline in external aid, rapid monetary expansion,
and inflationary price increases. This unsatisfactory performance was partly
caused by the preoccupation of the Government with acute political problems,
particularly the disturbances in the South which divided the country and
represented a serious drain on resources. With this problem settled, the
Government has been able to give more attention to its economic policy, and
as a result greater emphasis is now given to development. In seeking to
re-establish the momentum of development in the economy to utilize Sudan's
potential, the Government has been faced with two major problems. The first
was to step up the volume of investment from its recent low level, in both
the public and private sectors. The second was to overcome the major physical
constraints, particularly the inadequacy of the transport system which is
presently strangling the growth of the economy.
7.        While total investment in the Sudan was stationary during the period
1967-73, the current development plan provides for an ambitious investment
program.  Investment increased by about 40% in 1973/74 and doubled in



1974/75.  Maintenance of the increased level of investment will requ.Lre ; h
improved capacity in planning and project identification. The BanK is ex-
ecuting a project financed by the UNDP to strengthen the relatively comple>;
central planning organization which already exists. The Bank also sent a
mission to review the statistical system of the Sudan and has made recom-
mendations for improvements. Several other ideas are under consideration
by the Government to expand its project preparation capacity. These steps
should result in improvements in the planning and evaluation functions in
the medium term.
8.        In planning its investment program for the longer term, the Sudan
faces difficult balancing choices. It must emphasize expansion of production
in the modern agricultural sector to expand export earnings. This will imply
expansion and improvement of irrigated farming, which is highly capital inten-
sive but high yielding, and mechanized dry-land farming which directly ben-
efits only small numbers of people. It must also promote agriculture in the
poorer parts of the country, which would yield much less for export and re-
quire less investment, but would benefit much larger numbers of the poorest
people and lead to a better regional balance in incomes. Another choice will
concern the extent of mechanization in a situation where much labour is only
available seasonally, and where such labour surpluses as do exist might be
quickly reduced by investment in the home areas. Other questions concern
the incentive structure in the economy, on which the recent ILO mission is
expected to make recommendations, the extent to which industrial expansion
should be encouraged, and the extent to which expansion of transportation
facilities in advance of demand is justified for reasons of cohesive devel-
opment.
9.        A major challenge for the Government will be to mobilize domestic
and external resources to finance the higher level of development expenditure.
At present, public savings are not adequate to finance even half of the
projected level of development expenditure. The TMF has had a series of
stand-by arrangements with the Sudan and in both the IMF's consultations
and the Bank's discussions with the Government, specific recommendations
have been made regarding budgetary and fiscal measures needed to improve a
weak-financial situation. The tax burden is relatively high, and the most
urgent measures are curtailment of current expenditure and a movement
towards increased financial viability of public corporations. Significant
steps taken have included a doubling in the price of sugar, and major tariff
increases on the railways and in the power and urban water supply utility.
However, corrective measures will take time, and the level of public sector
investment in the Sudan over the next few years will be, to a great extent,
a function of the inflow of external assistance.
10.       In this connection Sudan's association with the Arab oil-exporting
nations may well be the key. The expectation is that Sudan may be able to
meet the food import requirements of many of these countries. A number of
them, through the medium of the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development,
are considering very large investment plans in the agricultural sector and
in infrastructure required to facilitate agricultural expansion. In addition



bilateral lending is likely to continue from individual Arab countries. if
this capital inflow develops on a substantial scale it will remove one of
the major current restraints on the level of investment and help overcome
Sudan's needs for foreign exchange until its earnings of foreign exchange
from exports can rise. However, a rapidly increasing inflow of external
capital will require improved capability to plan and implement projects,
and the need for a continued firm hand on the government's finance will be
even more acute if Sudan is not to be induced by the capital inflow into
levels of public recurrent expenditure which are not sustainable in the
longer term.
11.       The inadequacy of the transportation system is undoubtedly the most
serious immediate bottleneck to the development of industry, mining, agri-
cultural processing and the economy in general. Transport in the Sudan still
depends primarily upon the railways, with a total route length of about 4,750
km. The railway has played a crucial role in the country's development from
a subsistence economy by carrying the country's steadily rising imports and
exports. However, under the pressure of growing traffic and inadequate util-
ization of the present stock of locomotives and rolling stock, railway capac-
ity is severely strained. Major capital expenditure is under way, with IDA
participation, to improve the railways' carrying capacity, and further large
investment is required. There are only 350 km of paved roads outside muni-
cipal limits, the remaining roads being poor sand and gravel tracks. A con-
siderable investment program in new roads and for improved maintenance of
existing roads has been initiated, and studies for further roads are being
undertaken. Nile River transport could play a more important role than at
present, as could domestic air transport on account of the large distances
within the country.   Considerable investment in both modes is underway.    An
oil pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum is under construction.
12.       Compared with most other countries in Africa, the Sudan as a whole
is quite well provided with trained manpower. This is attributable in part
to the fact that the educational system has evolved over a longer period. A
feature of the system is that although the number of children in elementary
and secondary schools is still small in relation to their total age group, a
high proportion progresses to universities and other institutions of higher
learning; enrollment in these institutions has increased rapidly. There has
been a growing problem in absorbing some of the output of the educational
system, particularly university graduates with general arts degrees. In
the recent past, the Government has been prepared, as a matter of policy,
to hire all university graduates needing jobs, but this clearly entails
considerable waste. There is an urgent need to proceed with the reorienta-
tion of the educational system to make it more responsive to the current
demands of economic development. The Government is planning an education
sector study, which will derive considerable assistance from the findings
of the ILO Employment mission.
13.       In the light of the huge requirements for public sector investment
in the immediate future, the role of the private sector in promoting growth
is recognized to be very important. Although the public sector plays a major



- 5 -
role in the economy, historically the attitude cowards private inves.ment
has at most times been favorable. The decline in private activity since
1965 was mainly due to the unstable political environment and the uncertainty
generated by the nationalization and confiscation measures of 1970 and 1971.
The Government has taken steps to settle compensation claims, has returned
some confiscated property and has enacted legislation providing incentives
and guarantees for private enterprises, both foreign and domestic. Although
the data are poor, it seems clear that a considerable expansion in private
investment is underway, particularly in dry land farming, transportation and
housing and there are indications of interest on the part of foreign investors.
14.       Currently, Sudan faces a difficult balance of payments situation,
partly as a result of a deterioration in the terms of trade. The increase
in oil prices has increased the oil import bill from about US$22 million in
1973 to about US$95 million in 1975, but Sudan received a loan on medium
terms from Iran, a major supplier, to help meet the cost. There is very
little room for reduction in the use of oil products, which is already tightly
constrained, but additional taxes were nevertheless imposed in an attempt to
contain imports. The food import bill rose by 40% from 1972 to 1973 and,
on the basis of nine months figures, further increases occurred in 1974.
The principal cause was the increased cost of sugar and wheat. A major
expansion in domestic production of both these commodities is under way,
which will soon remove this drain on foreign exchange. Other imports,
particularly of capital goods, should expand in proportion to the projected
increase in investment. Export prices are now well below the levels of
mid-1974, and sales of cotton collapsed in 1974 to the lowest level for
many years, due to the recession in the world's textile industry. In fiscal
year 1973/74 the current account of the balance of payments was in deficit
again, partly due to large rises in prices of essential imports, and partly
due to delayed sales of some exports, mainly cotton. The IMF has made a
compensatory financing loan of $21.6 million equivalent to help bridge the
gap until commodity sales recover, but as a result of the difficulty in the
market for cotton, the deficit in balance of payments increased in 1974/75.
On the other hand, the reopening of the Suez Canal will work significantly
in Sudan's favor. The net foreign reserves of the country have been depleted
since 1968, and at December 1974 they stood at a negative figure of US$138
million.
15.       By December 31, 1974, the Sudan's total external debt was estimated
to be US$1,250 million equivalent, including undisbursed commitments of about
US$550 million. The breakdown of the total debt outstanding by source shows
that the Bank Group, bilateral sources and private banks are the three princi-
pal creditors with shares of 23, 41 and 34 percent respectively. Debt service
payments on medium and long-term debt amounted in 1974 to 12 percent (IBRD/IDA
2.5 percent) of the value of exports of goods and non-factor services. While
the Sudan has a good record in meeting its repayment obligations, such obliga-
tions over the next few years are likely to absorb an increasing proportion
of its foreign exchange earnings. A disturbing feature of Sudan's external
debt position has been the rising proportion of medium-term debt contracted
on commercial terms. While a rapid increase in private and public capital
inflows is essential, it is equally important that the terms of public capital



inflow should be as concessional as possible.    It is also important io- Sudan
to give high priority to the productive investments and export promo.ion
policies which will enable it to substantially expand foreign exchange
earnings.  The Sudanese are aware of the need to contain debt service within
the country's capacity to meet debt obligations. The Government informed the
IMF that it has adopted a policy of not increasing external debt of less than
five years' maturity and that longer-term debts will be limited to those that
contribute to the development of the economy and are on favorable terms. Given
the current balance of payments problem, the government may have difficulty
adhering to this policy, but in view of this policy, and the emphasis being
given to the development of Sudan's considerable productive potential, parti-
cularly in the agricultural sector, continued support from IDA and other
sources of concessionary funds is warranted. The major infrastructure invest-
ments required for the development of a country as large as Sudan also dictate
the need for funds on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
16.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $300
million and has been the country's single largest source of foreign aid.
A major portion of our past lending was to help finance irrigation and rail-
way projects; in addition we have lent for two power projects, two education
projects, a highways project, and three agriculture projects. The Bank/IDA
share of debt service is 21 percent (1974). Annex :II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of August 31,
1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Progress on Bank Group operations in the Sudan varies.    The highways
and mechanized farming projects are going quite well, but difficulties in
obtaining materials, high bids which require re-tendering and weaknesses
in management continue to slow down implementation on most projects. Three
projects in particular have encountered problems in implementation--the
First Education Project, which was very slow in starting off, but is now
proceeding satisfactorily; the Third Railways Project, where progress to-
wards improved operational efficiency is very slow; and the Rahad Irrigation,
Project which has faced management problems and serious cost overruns. This
project was recently discussed by the Board when the supplementary credit for
the project was considered. (See Annex II.) The placing of supervision
responsibility in our Regional Mission in Eastern Africa for some projects
has provided effective and timely technical assistance at critical stages
of project implementation.
18.       No loans or credits were made to the Sudan between September 1968
and June 1972, largely because of the Government's failure to take measures
necessary to overcome its economic difficulties. However, over the past
three years the situation has improved. The Government resolved the conflict
in the South and a major expansion in the level of expenditure on development



- 7 -
projects is under way, benefiting the whole country, including the backward
Southern Region. The financial measures taken under the continuing stand-by
arrangements with the IHF are further evidence of the Government's search
for solutions to the Sudan's pressing economic problems. While overall
performance is still weak, these steps provide justification for more active
Bank Group assistance to the Sudan.
19.       As the Sudan has considerable agricultural potential waiting to be
tapped, the Bank Group will continue to emphasize assistance to the agricul-
tural sector. Within agriculture, we have recently made a credit for a
major irrigation project and for an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project in
the South. In addition, we are assisting the Government in preparing pro-
jects in fisheries, livestock, mechanized farming and other fields of agricul-
ture. A second education project, emphasizing training in the rural areas was
approved by the Board in April. It will help to give a more vocational
content to education curricula. Lack of transport facilities continues to
hamper movement of goods within the country and to the outside world. The
Third Railway Project is intended to improve rail transport and to help
design further necessary improvements in related transport facilities. In
addition, a Second Highway Project is under preparation, and included in the
agricultural rehabilitation program is about 350 miles of agricultural feeder
roads in the Southern Region. With the first credit to the Industrial Bank
of Sudan (IBS), the Bank Group is to supporting private investment in the
growing industrial sector. A second credit to IBS is the subject of this
report. The first power project, which developed some of the hydro-electric
potential of the Roseires Dam was completed in 1972. A credit for the second
power project, which will develop these resources further and assist expansion
of the electricity system in several ways, was recently approved by the Board.
Also under consideration is a credit to provide additional resources for proj-
ect preparation work.
20.       The Bank Group is actively seeking cooperation from bilateral
sources to supplement scarce IDA resources, for example in the financing
of the Rahad Irrigation project. In 1973 the Consultative Group for Sudan,
which had last met in 1964, was reconvened. Most of the original member
countries as well as some new countries participated in this meeting and
expressed interest in helping the Sudan. This seems likely to lead to
increased external assistance. At an appropriate time, a further meeting
of the Consultative Group will be held.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN SUDAN
21.       Industrial statistics in the Sudan are inadequate for a thorough
analysis of the sector. For this reason the precise dimensions of the in-
dustrial sector and the impact of the government's industrial policies are
difficult to quantify. Industrial development in Sudan began during the
Second World War, and has continued relatively slowly since then. Indus-
trial production accounts for about 10% of GDP and industrial employment is



- 8 -
in the region of 200,000, or about 4% of the estimated labor force. Industry
is located especially in the Khartoum area, but the government has made con-
scious efforts to encourage industries in the provinces. The most important
industries at present are food, drinks and tobacco, textiles and leather work.
The vast majority of manufacturing production in Sudan is for the domestic
market, is primarily oriented towards final consumer products, and is highly
protected through tariffs and quotas. Many of the larger industries are
publicly owned, principally by the Industrial Production Corporation, a
holding company for a variety of industries, which operates through four
subsidiaries responsible for specific sectors, namely sugar, food industries,
leather and plastic products and miscellaneous industries.
Industrial Policy
22.       Industrial policy in Sudan is based on the 1967 Organization and
Promotion of Industrial Investment Act, which represented a major effort to
organize the industry sector institutionally and to encourage investment by
local and foreign entrepreneurs. The statement of industrial policy embodied
in the Act accepted the need for public participation in industrial expan-
sion, especially for the larger projects, or those with a lengthy payback
period. The Act provided for relief from business profits tax, from customs
duties on capital goods and raw materials, in the rate at which depreciation
could be calculated, and a variety of other incentives. Tariff protection
was also increased. Foreign investors were assured of adequate compensation
in the event of nationalization, of freedom to transfer capital and to pay
dividends overseas, and were also offered the incentives provided to domestic
investors. The effect of these incentives had not become apparent before
the period of nationalizations of 1970/71, which, despite the provisions of
the 1967 Act governing nationalization, created uncertainty among private
industrialists. The Act was not repealed, but in 1972 it was reenacted in
a slightly modified form, with substantially the same provisions. It was
the operation of the 1972 Act which was analyzed by the Bank's industry
sector mission in 1973/74 (See Paras. 24-27 below). A further revision of
the 1972 Act was made in late 1974. The new Act adds incentives to exports
and to further domestic processing of locally produced intermediate products.
Industrial policy is applied by the Ministry of Industry and Mining, through
the medium of an Advisory Committee, which contains representatives of other
ministries.
Industry and Foreign Trade
23.       In 1974 Sudan imported manufactured goods to the value of ESd 144
million (US$360 million). As or a result of the oil price rise, and the
very high prices of essential food imports, especially sugar and wheat, the
proportion of manufactured goods to total imports fell from 55% to 51%. Sudan's
exports of manufactures are negligible. While the government's measures to
improve the balance of payments situation gives the main role to agricultural
diversification, especially by expansion in the production of wheat, sugar and
livestock products, the government also plans to expand industry based on
domestically produced raw materials, especially in cotton textiles. Currently,



- 9 -
textile imports amount to 11% of all imports.    Industrial expansion based on
available raw materials is also possible in vegetable oils, building mater-.as,
and leather goods.
IBRD Industrial Sector Mission
24.        In late 1973, at the request of the government a Bank mission
visted Sudan, analyzed the industrial sector and its policies and plans
and prepared a report. (It has yet to be issued in its final form.) It
found Sudanese industry faced with three critical issues - infrastructure
deficiencies, especially in transportation; a shortage of skilled labor,
and technical and management skills; and some inadequacies in industrial
policy. It identified breweries, oil mills, tanneries and sugar as
industries where prospects for expansion seemed particularly favorable,
and advised that successful expansion of textile exports would require
products of consistent quality.
25.       Taking these issues in turn, infrastructure deficiencies are a
problem for the economy as a whole. The government has a major investment
program under way on the railways and highways, in the oil pipeline and in
river transport. In a country of the size of Sudan, it will take years to
overcome all the transportation problems. Nevertheless, within the next
four years a considerable improvement can be expected. Problems with the
supply of electricity are also receiving attention, with support from IDA
in the Second Power Project, approved by the Board on May 24, 1975. The
shortages of skilled labor and technical and managerial skills will also
take years to overcome. The manpower problems were described in some detail
in the reports on the proposed investment by IFC in Cotton Textile Mills
Limited (IFC/R75-5). Assistance from technical partners, training schemes
and time will be necessary to produce the necessary skills and the social
adjustments to industrial work.   The recent ILO Comprehensive Employment
Mission examined the problem in some depth. This analysis will be followed
by an analysis of the education sector, which will help to adapt the education
system to the changing needs, including the requirements for trained workers
in industry.  Of special interest to the industrial sector is the government's
support for the Industrial Research and Consulting Institute, which provides
technical services to industry.
26.       The issues of industrial policy concerned both their content
and application. The Bank report recommended a simplification of excise
duties, allocation of foreign exchange by price, additional encouragement
to exports and changes in the allocation of management responsibility in
the public sector holding company, the Industrial Production Corporation.
The two major policy changes recommended were a gradual movement toward
less reliance on protection, through the adjustment of administered ex-
factory prices to border prices and reductions in import duties, and a
reduction in incentives to the import of capital goods and raw materials.
These measures should lead to better capacity utilization and would dis-
courage the development of non-viable industries and the inefficient use of
scarce foreign and domestic capital and manpower skills.



27.       An upsurge in industrial investment will make policy changes in
this sector all the more important as it will at the same time strain the
Government's administrative machinery for implementing policies and projects.
Some government actions in the drafting of the 1974 Industry Act, and in
the development of UNDP proposals for technical assistance in the Ministry
of Industry and the Industrial Production Corporation, represent steps in
the direction recommended. The analysis contained in the ILO mission report
addresses some of the same issues and provides a broader context for dis-
cussion of them. The Government is still considering the recommendations made
by these two reports, and we propose to pursue these important policy issues
with the government over the coming months. While industrial policy is
discussed and reviewed over time, the proposed credit to IBS should not be
delayed. Sudan has a clear need for well-managed financial intermediaries,
and improved methods of economic and financial analysis by IBS are providing
it with the capability of making a sound economic evaluation of projects
submitted to it for financing.
Current Industry Investment Plans
28.       Several major industrial investments are taking place and several
more are planned. In most cases foreign participation is involved in some
form or other. These projects include four sugar schemes, which should turn
Sudan from being an importer into a significant sugar exporter in the late
70's, two kenaf bag projects, a cement plant, two tanneries and several textile
plants. Although effective private sector demand for investment funds is dif-
ficult to quantify, the Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Industry and
Mining, which recommends industrial licensing, has issued licenses for a large
number of projects in textiles, building materials, oil milling, chemicals,
rubber and leather products and food processing industries. The investment
climate has clearly improved, and the local business community is relatively
optimistic about the opportunities for industrial expansion. Up to the present,
however, the level of risk capital employed by foreign partners is relatively
low. It will be a major task for the government to ensure that the additional
funds becoming available are directed into priority projects. This will require
both an appropriate set of industrial policies and effective financial interme-
diaries to channel capital efficiently into high priority projects.
Financing of Industry
29.       Until recently, the Industrial Bank of Sudan was the only special-
ized institution providing term finance to the industrial sector. Other
institutions are now being created. Of these, the Sudan Development Cor-
poration established in 1974 is the most important. Its initial capital
came from a euro-dollar loan of $200 million raised by Sudan with a Saudi
Arabian guarantee. It is intended to finance major projects of national
scope, mainly in the public sector, and has already made several investments
in the Sudan Railways, and in sugar and textile industries. A second
institution, the Sudanese/Kuwaiti Investment Co. Ltd. is a joint venture
between the Sudan Government and the Kuwaiti Foreign Trade and Contracting
Co. The Company, which has a paid-in capital of ESd 1 million expects to



- 11 -
promote joint ventures and has plans for investments principally in road
transportation, cold storage, livestock, buildings and construction and
fisheries. Industrial investments may be made but this is not expected to
be the Company's main field of activity. A third institution is the Sudanese
Investment Bank, which has not yet been incorporated. The Bank, which is
expected to have a paid-in capital of LSd 3 million, mainly privately owned,
is intended to operate multi-sectorally and is likely to concentrate on the
financing of foreign trade, share dealings etc. A major American Bank is
also opening a representative office in Sudan, but its investment intentions
are not known. Local commercial banks provide term financing to only a
limited extent to their important clients and are constrained by credit
ceilings imposed by the Bank of Sudan and by exchange control regulations.
Equipment suppliers have offered attractive credit terms for purchase of
certain types of equipment, and these facilities will undoubtedly be used
where appropriate. However, they are unlikely to be available to the small
and medium sized enterprises who form the majority of IBS clients.
30.       While additional sources of foreign exchange will be available,
the Industrial Bank of Sudan is expected to remain an important source of
medium to long-term financing, in both local and foreign currency, for
small and medium sized industries. It will be particularly significant for
the key entrepreneurs, many of whom are experienced traders, starting up
new industries or expanding existing small industries. Given the expansion
in public investment planned in Sudan, and the generally optimistic attitude
of local industrialists, it is considered that ample demand for IBS' services
exists. Since the first IBS credit was made, IBS has been able to assume
a more dynamic role in the financing of industrial projects and there appear
to be excellent prospects of further expansion.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.       In December 1973, Executive Directors approved a credit of $4
million to the Democratic Republic of Sudan for the Industrial Bank of
Sudan (IBS) (P-1269a-SU). IBS had been established in 1961 and had
gradually accumulated some experience of lending as a development institu-
tion. In the years prior to the approval of the IDA credit, IBS had had
access to very little foreign exchange. Its operations had been relatively
limited and its commitments had not exceeded $0.5 million in any one year.
In view of IBS' past lending record, it was anticipated at the time of
appraisal and negotiation of the IDA credit, that the credit of $4 million
would provide adequate foreign exchange for a 2-year period. It became
apparent soon after the approval of the credit that there was substantial
demand for the facilities IBS could now offer, and by June 1974 over 80%
of the credit had been committed. In November 1974 an appraisal mission
visited IBS. Its report entitled "Appraisal of the Industrial Bank of
Sudan" (No. 728a-SU dated October 10, 1975) is being circulated separately.



- 12 -
32.       When the first credit was made, agreement had been reached on a
program to improve some of IBS' techniques, particularly in financial and
economic appraisal. To that end a UNDP financed Adviser was appointed to
IBS for a two year period to provide technical assistance particularly in
these fields. In view of the rapid commitment of the credit, the adviser
had only been in post for eight months at the time of the November appraisal
and progress toward the necessary institutional improvements had been
limited.  The appraisal mission, therefore, recommended that further im-
provements should be made prior to consideration of a possible second
credit. A brief mission in April confirmed that considerable progress
had been made. The Association had also suggested to the Government that
since business seemed to be growing rapidly, IBS should diversify its
sources of foreign exchange. IBS has subsequently been allocated $2.1
million equivalent from the German Capital Assistance loan for 1976 and
has received a $5 million credit from the Kuwait Fund. It is a most im-
portant development for IBS that these significant additional sources of
funds have become available. The proposed project vould help to meet IBS'
identified foreign exchange needs until mid-1977. IBS has included in its
future strategy the promotion of projects, preparation of feasibility studies
on a limited scale, provision of technical assistance to its clients and
a wider geographical distribution of its financial assistance. Although
IBS' administrative capabilities may not allow it to make significant
progress in these areas in the short run, its intentions are steps in a
worthwhile direction. A credit and project summary is provided at Annex
III.
The Company
33.       The Industrial Bank of Sudan was incorporated in 1961, and is
wholly owned by the Bank of Sudan (the Central Bank). The paid-in capital
of IBS is hSd 3.5 million andi commitments amounting to Esd 2.6 million had been made
by the end of 1974. The Bank of Sudan proposes to increase IBS capital by a further
hSd 0.5 million in 1976.   Driginallv limited to financing only private indhus-
trial enterprises, the Act of incorporation was amended in 1973 to allow IBS
to participate in the financing of the public sector projects also. IBS'
operating policies define its maximum exposure in any project as 20% of its
paid-in capital and within this limitation it can finance up to two-thirds
of the cost of a project. IBS is also authorized to make equity investments.
Board of Directors
34.       The IBS Board of Directors has eight members, consisting of the
Managing Director (who is also the Chairman), the Deputy Managing Director,
a representative each from the Ministry of Finance and National Economy,
the Ministry of Industry and Mining and the Bank of Sudan, and three
members from the private sector.   The Board meets once a month, and is re-
quired to approve all investments greater than tSd2000.    Due to improvements
in IBS' appraisal capabilities the Board is now provided with sufficient
financial and economic data to permit soundly based decisions.



- 13 -
Management and Staff
35.       The technical assistance provided under the first credit, together
with EDI training to key staff members, has helped IBS' management to carry
out the expansion in IBS' activities without apparent difficulty. Although
continued improvement in certain methods of operation is necessary, especially
in the follow-up work, adequate overall progress has been made and we do not
see the need for continued technical assistance of the kind required for the
first credit, when the contract of the existing Investment Adviser expires.
IBS continues to be overstaffed in relation to its scale of operations, but
with the upgrading of its appraisal skills it should be able to manage
considerable expansion in its operations without expanded overheads in the
future. IBS still lacks experienced senior staff, but it has some good
people in the more junior posts, which augurs well for the future. It is
important, however, that IBS continues to be able to retain capable staff,
and maintenance of competitiveness in salaries will be important.
Operations and Portfolio
In the past IBS has tended to lend in a majority of cases to enterprises
up to its maximum of two thirds of the total cost of a project without adequate regard
to the debt service capability of these clients, but is now showing more care in the
proportion of a project's cost it finances. The sectoral spread of IBS portfolio is
satisfactory. The first IDA credit to IBS was used to finance imported goods for
seven projects, including textiles, oil mills and building materials. In further-
ance of its development role, and in accordance with government policy, IBS
will continue to seek viable investment opportunities in the less developed
parts of Sudan, away from Khartoum. Up to now 42% of loans, by amount,
have been outside Khartoum, although it is in the Khartoum area, where most
industrial enterprises are located. In the past the volume of operations
has fluctuated widely, but given availability of adequate funds, operations
are expected to continue their rapid recent expansion. At March 31, 1975
IBS had an outstanding loan portfolio of hSd 2.06 million in 85 projects
(average size of loan bSd 23,800). After a slow start, IBS has made progress
in resolving its arrears situation since the appraisal of the first IDA Credit
in 1973 when the affected portfolio constituted 57% of the outstanding
amount. As of June 30, 1975, 27% of the portfolio by amount was affected
by arrears above three months. However, 79% of the affected portfolio and
80% of the arrears are accounted for by three large chronic defaulters.
The biggest of them is a cement factory financed by IBS at Government request.
The Government is planning to acquire majority control of this firm and to
improve its operational efficiency by implementing the recent recommendations
of a German firm of consultants. The other two defaulters have been experien-
cing management difficulties. At the negotiations of the proposed credit, IBS
agreed to submit to IDA detailed evaluations of these three projects and
proposals for settlement of the arrears, and, if necessary, to make adequate
provisions for possible losses, in consultation with the auditors, before the
1975 accounts are closed. As of December 31, 1974 IBS' provisions for possible
losses amounted to bSd 279,000, constituting 13.7% of the total loan portfolio.
IBS has a large equity base (bSd 3.2 million as against an outstanding debt of
LSd 804,000 as of June 30, 1975) and even if it were necessary to make further
provisions to cover the overdues the equity base would still be adequate.



- 14 --
Further, there are plans to increase IBS' capital by a further ESd 0.5 rnillion
in 1976. Up to the present, IBS has provided guarantees to secure suppliers
credits for its clients, but it now proposes to cease this type of business.
The amount of guarantees outstanding on June 30, was about bSd 570,000.
Financial Results
37.        IBS has had a poor financial record up to now.    In 1969 IBS broke
even, and in 1970 and 1971 made} nominal profits. Earnings in 1972 amounted
to ESd36,000, but large provisions (ESd273,000) were necessary, turning the
profit into a substantial loss. In 1973 and 1974 IBS earned iSd32,000. Both
income and expenses in 1974 were well up onl previous years. The yield on IBS'
loan portfolio increased from 6.5% in 1971 to 8.2% in 1973 and 8.3% in 1974,
reflecting higher interest rates charged by IBS. Net income after provisions
as a percentage of average total assets decreased from 1.3% in 1973 to 1.2% in.
1974; this low return is due to the absence of a yield on the equity investments
and liquid funds.   Debt service coverage i- ample, since there is still relatively
little debt in the balance sheet. Under its charter, IBS can expand its debt
up to three times its equity.
Forecast of Operations and Resource Requirements
38.        It is expected that both approvals and commitments in 1975 will
be considerably higher than those in 1974. Major projects in the pipeline
include two textile mills, a vegetable oil mill, a flour mill and a thread
factory, apart from a number of smaller projects. The management of IBS
is confident that there exists a demand for a considerably increased volume
of business. Based on the expansion achieved in the last two years, and
the general conditions in Sudan, this confidence seems fully justified.
The projection developed on the basis of present expectations provides for
a trebling of IBS's commitments by 1979 with a steady build-up of income
as IBS' portfolio expands. Income after provisions would be 5.7% of
average net worth by 1979, when administrative expenses would be reduced
to 1.4% of average total assests.
39.        As to resources, the further increase of bSd 0.5 million in IBS
capital proposed by the Bank of Sudan, together with net cash generation, would
provide adequate local currency resources for the next few years. The
foreign currency resource gap for the period 1975 to mid 1977 is estimated
to be about LSd 4.8 million ($14 million). IBS is expected to receive about
$2.1 million equivalent from the 1976 German Capital Assistance loan to Sudan,
and a credit of $5 million from the Kuwait Fund has been negotiated.       With
an IDA credit of $7 million, IBS' resources should be adequate until mid-1977.
It is estimated that IBS' debt/equity ratio in 1979 will be about 2.
On-Lending Terms
40.        The IDA credit would be on-lent by the Sudanese government to IBS
at 8-1/2% for a maximum period of 15 years, with a composite amortization
schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules of IBS sub-loans



under the credit.   IBS' borrowers would bear the exchange risk.   The free
limit for individual sub-loans would be $100,000 with an aggregate free
limit of $1.75 million. These limits represent increases from the limits
used for the first IDA credit, but would not substantially reduce the Bank's
opportunity to review sub-projects. During the negotiations, it was agreed
that IBS will charge an interest rate of not less than 10% except for small
and medium sized local currency loans (financed out of IBS's own resources),
to industries situated in the least developed regions of Sudan, which will
be charged 8.5%. The average cost of new borrowings under negotiation
including the proposed IDA credit is likely to be about 6%. The average
cost of capital including equity (taking into account the new resources
mentioned in para 39 above) is likely to be about 3.5% and the average
return on loans is about 9.5%.
Benefits and Justification
41.       The government's plans for investment in the public sector, to-
gether with the incentives offered to foreign and domestic private investors
have generated an improved investment climate in Sudan. The demand for
foreign exchange by small and medium sized industrialists is considerable.
These demands are unlikely to be met on appropriate terms from suppliers
credits and no other institution in Sudan is catering adequately to their
needs. In addition to meeting these needs, the IBS can help the government
to meet its objective of diversifying its exports (vegetable oils, sugar
and textiles) and substituting domestic production based on domestically
produced raw materials for imports (textiles and building materials). This
diversification would release scarce foreign exchange for imports of capital
goods and raw materials not produced domestically.
42.       The prospect for a rapid growth in IBS' business are good and
continued IDA support for IBS would further its growth into a sound insti-
tution with an important role in financing in the industrial sector. The
application of appropriate methods of economic appraisal to IBS projects
will provide useful material to the Government indicating the appropriate-
ness of specific industrial policies applied in Sudan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Recommend-
ation of the Committee provided for under Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
propsed Development Credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 16 -
44.       The draft agreements follow the normai pattern for credits .or
development finance projects. The relending of the proceeds of the
Credit would be governed by a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Democratic Republic of the Sudan and IBS, satisfactory to the Association.
45.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
46.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 14, 1975



Annex I
Pap 1 of 3 pages
oDNWTRY DATA - jAN
ARgJ                                                PDPUINtTSO                                   ZNSITY
2.5 mile. 1h6e 59                                                ion (sid-1972)                              Psi blof arable land
SOCIAL SMDICATORS
Roference Countries
Sudal                    Kenya        ot Nroc
m   1970        1970        1S70         1970
ON? rRR CAPITA US4 (ArIAS BASIS) ,.                                             120              170 /A     240 /s       270/c
D3 8GAAPH1C
Crudobirth rate (per thousand)                                  52 /b         4Y /c            48 /c       35 /d        50 b
Crude death rate (per., thUnad)                                 19 /b          18 7-1 iS/c                 13 7/d       I  /c
Infant sortality rats (per thousand live birth.)                98 7            .               55       11  -        '50 7J
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                .               1 5             1,9 /a     53 Ic        5  77
Gross rjondodction rateL~ /2                                                  3.4 _            3.1  r     3.0 /r       3. 4L
Populetioo growth rate                                         2.6            ?.8 I,           3. .'                   2 . '
Population growth rate - urba                                    L/f            5h                          L          I--- Zhi. 1
Age atroU.u,re (peros-t)
0-14                                                         47 /          45              148         1. 14        17
65  nd over                                                   ?              3              48           I5
Age dopender1y retlo                                           1.0            0.9                  I      .y          10)
EcooneIc d-cood.ory r.r I/L                                    1. 6 I.(       1. .              1    r t '<
Urban popuietio a- 1o-0-t or totlI                                              J a   (         I          II,           .
FYotly planntog, No of arneptors cumulative (thou.)                                                                      I 
No. of Acor. (% of earried woen)              .
'f6I      - f.bnr force (thousoade)                          1,,800 /c      ,I 00 /d  n     5 ,1,  /d   D, tCo      L    O,tX)  /,
Percentage employed in agriculture                            86 ?     ;     80 /U 7W                    ';' n            7o
P.rcontago une.ployed                                                                                        YJ .
INOCNE DISTRIBUTIOB
Peroen-t ofationI inocoms roe-ivad by highest 5%                21 /t o
Perrent of notionel inoo     receivrd by highest 20S            50 Yt
Percent of national inco.e received by lowest 20%                S
Peroont of national income rece.ied by loweet 40%               14 /tu
D1STRIBUTION OF LAND O*URSHIP
S owned by top 1CS of ownrs 
% Owned by esalle.t 11% of ownors
HEALTh AND NUTRITION
Population per physiian                                     30,O000        13,660-/d        6    55  jd,w  - ,81;    3 1 3,90' / 
Population per nursing pernon                                2,570 T.k      910 7O          ?,7C0 7i    1.520    c  2,1/O Z/I.
Populetion per hospital bed                                  1,010 7;       1t01.0              i460l               4   60 /
Per capita calorie supply as S of requirements /5               81 /ob         91              101         9.           99
Per capita protein sauply, totel (grasc   per deyY6             54 7lok        63               71         66          61L
Of which, enimal and pulse                                                   21 /c            29         16 /qo.a     I  /0
Death rote 1-4 years /7
EDUCATION
Adj.sted /8 primary echool o-rolbment ratio                     17             25 /1            6/         70           55
Adjusted 7   neco-doary echool enrollment ratio                  5               7T             9 /ob     33           12
Years of t.hoolinzg providsd, first and second level            12             12               13         12           12
Vocatiocol enrollment en % of ..c. .chool enrollment             3              1 /d               0, a                  3
Adult literacy r-te%                                                                            3II , t s1i  Oidec     24) bd'.  u;
hl3USI NO
Average No  of percons per Icon (urb.o)                         ..            .                                          . id
Percont ot occupied ,,lits without pipod .etor                  ..                 7                                    i
Accos to telctricity (as % of tota) pnoilatioc)                 . .            6     ,         .                            d
Per.e-t of t.rol population 1contcto.l to sleotricity           *.
Radio r   Ioelvers per 1WO popalatio.                           1             80 /e            41 /t     I'L  /a       /5 )
Passenger cere per 1000 population                                I/ 2. I                                               16 Xd
Electric poeer coneumption (kwh p. c)                               /ak        1                78         1           139a
Wew.pri.t oon.u-pti.. p..c kg per y..,                          0 .-          0. 1 Z           0. b         .'?Z       0 3 LE
Notess Figures refer either to the lteet periods or to              acount of environmeotal teowerature, body weighte, VZd
the latest yearn,  Lotent periodn refer in principle to              distribution by age   d sex of nationa1 populatione.
the yeerm 1956-60 or 1966-70; the Iote.t year   in p.rin-        Z   Protein standarde (rqofrweneta) for all coun.trie. s    "eetab-
ciple to 1960  nd 1970.                                              lished by USDA Eo0nooi'c Reeearch Se-rvic  provide for a  tinleof
,   The Per Copi t3 GNP estimite ic ct merket prtc- for              allotw1nce of 60 graeo of total protein per day, aord 20 gr-am of
yesrs oth-r than 1960,coloulo.vd by the uonc covarnion            aniral and pNle protin, cf which 10 grams should be aimal
techniqoc ns tIhb 1972 World Blak Atla,                          protein.  Thewe standarda are someehat lower than those of 75
1   Average number of daughters per -ocen of reproductive            grams of total protein and 23 grams of aninal protein as an
Ago,                                                             a-erage for the .orld, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food
2   Pbpuloticn grovth rste- ar  fcr the decodes ending in            Survey.
1960 .ad 1970.                                                   Some st.dies have euggeetod that crude death ratee of children
R! 8atio of population under 15 and 65 and over to popula-           ages 1 thro-gh 1. may be ..ed as a ftrat approximation index of
tion of ages 15-61. for age dependency ratio and to labor /       al-utrition.
force of ags 15-61 for economic dependency ratio.            /8  Peretage enrold of e--rp.nding popotaon of school           ge
E   FAO  s fe"r'ce atndards represeut physiological re-                d.fi-d lo    ...h cow.trr
quireaante for noroal ectivi.y and health. takior
/A  1972;     b  Eotlmate for 1955 based on resulta.of 1955-56 se.ple census of popul.tion;       &   UN eti-cLe for 1%65-70
Zi 1971;     jf 960-7      2; a  Sixty-eight towns;    L&  1962-69;   /h   2,000 or nore inhobitants;     i   overoor-tes of Coiro,
Alenondrio, Port Said, InAill     and Suez; frontier governoratW end capitalo of other go-eroorLeos ss cell as district
cepit,la;    Lj 117 urb,n oenLerea     /k  1%962,       1969;    .  Roti. of popuiaticsi under 15 rod 65 -od over to t.cil
labor force;    /   1965;   /    1966;   /o  1965-73;        E EOL'.  Le;  I  UN estiLmte for 1970-75;    /   Figure relates to
persons 12-61. ye.er  of oge;       1963;i  L   Households (Omdornan urbhn);     /n  Goveronent hbopitLl -esblishmonts only;
9   Number cc Lhe regieLer, not a11 working in the country;      /.  IncludiL,g nidwives end reol.tent ourase;    d   Registered
only;   !L   196L-66i   /     1968-69;   /rb  Secondary echooling includes Leacher-trolning at the third level;      Lc    Defi-
nitlo  not P-ol1bleh ;         1973;   /j   15 yeero and over,     cf   bnd and crito;    ZL     Over fine yerro old; 4  i_  l Urbro
only;   /j    Inside or outrida;    .,J Percent of hoesaholde;     a)    1961;   /,   includilog goverrrent vehIcles;      a  In-
cludlIng lighL oonrIql     -ohiclee;    /-  Ibor force in age brooks. 1i- 9.
D cr'...:,. 0,0lee;,ns asle,'I., or, Ihe d,Ieolice oc,o,l.d' bensue. of rih oxt/le phlul;l,,n (alas .r ;., ivtIDu,, I,,lk
I q  0l1.,,,, lOnnle, lclrnO. *.d f   egiln r "i l m Itone, s.cn,l,r of Ar,bl, ecrlI ni 1 .3 ocenn I., eI,PI  eIn / laci .1  d 1n  'l"'lD
h-nl     1                                      rleinl   t clnl line 1   l b  coIl re inn fhe eali
.,   laoAren   I ml DM " ' " ..:



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1972                                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (k. constant prices)
usS Mln.                                       1960-65           1965-70             1972
GNP at Market Prices                        2143.4        100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                    218.6          10.2
Gross National Saving                        179.5           8.4
Current Account Balance                      -39.1          -1.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                        361.3          16.9                           .
Imports of Goods, NFS                        385.4         18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY 1972
Value Added-                     Labor Force                       V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.          %                  Mln.                                S $          %
Agriculture                                  693.3          38.2
Industry                                     273.4          15.0
Services                                     849.4         46.8
IJnallocated                                _
Total/Average                             1816.1         100.0                          1000.                                100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                    Central Government
(La. Mln.)        % of GDP                           (La. Mln.)            7 of GDPV
197         197          197 -7                      FY 1973    FY 1972    FY 1970-FY 1972
Current Receipts                                     ..          ..            ..                         177.1       21.8          23.3
Current Expeniditure                                 ..          ..           ..                          180.9       21.5          22.4
Current Surplus      3                                .                        . .                         -3.8        0.3           0.9
Capital Expenditures-                                 .                        ..                          29.6        4.0           4.3
External Assistance (net)                            .      .                  ..                           5.7        1.4           1.1
MONEY  CREDIT and PRICES                          FY 1968      FY 1970     FY 1971      FY 1972     FY 1973     FY 1974
(Million La. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                              92.0         127.3        132.8       140.8       182.0        239.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                       62.0          96.7       110.4        146.2       177.3       185.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                      60.5          60.3        73.1         70.5        92.8       136.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as *. of GDP                 16.4          21.1        20.8         18.7
General Price index (1963 - 100)                     ..            .           ..
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                  ..           ..           ..
Bank credit to Public Sector                          .          30.5        14.2         32.4        21.3         4.4
Bank credit to Private Sector                       .            -1.3        21.2         -3.6        31.6        47.5
NOTE-  Al. conveurions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rate prevailing during the period covered; which was unchanged
throughout at Ls I = US$2.872
not available
1/  At factor cost                                                                                                        not applicable
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities)
October 14, 1975
Eastern Africa, Programs I



An-nex I
Page 3 of 3
TRADE PAIMNTS AND CAPITAL FlOW8
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGS 1971-73)
1971        1972        1973
(Millions UB $)                                                                       US $ Mn         2
Exports of Goods, NFS                  355.2       373.2       491.8                      Cotton                                      217.6        58.3
ImPorts of Goods, NFS                  381.7       4095        446.0                      Gum arabic                                   23.1         6.2
Resource Gap (deficit . -)             -26.5       -36.3        45.8                      Groundnuts                                   26.3         7.1
Saaame                                       30.6         8.2
Interest Payments (net)                 -2.5       -16.7       -14.6                      All other commodities                        75.5        20.2
Worker's Reittances                     -           -           -                          Total                                     373.1        100.0
other Factor Payments (net)            -10.7        -5.8        -7.8
Net Transfers                           -2.3         7.2         .3                       XXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account             -42.0       -51.6        25.7
Public Debt, inl. guaranteed                            535.0
Direct Foreign Investment               -1.1         0.3         0.8                      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT borrowing                                                                         Total outstanding & Disburaed
Disbursements                         16.3        39.6       -90.2                                                 1/
AMortication                         -30.9       -33.8       -40.3                      DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974
Subtotal                             -14.6         5.8        49.9
Capital Grants *                                     -           -                                                                                  2
Other Capital (net)                     19.8         3.7         8.7
Other Ite   n.e.i.                      -6.8       -10.9       -61.7                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                            12.6
Increase in Reserves (+)               -44.7       -30.9       +22.6                      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outtatnding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               29.0        38.1        72.4
Net Reserves   (end year)              -97.2      -128.1      -105.5                      IRD/IDA LENDING. (Aug. 1975) (Million US SI
Fuel and Related Materials              1970        1971        1972                                                                   ORD 
L,portrs                                          2 5.8 
of which: Petroleum                 25.9        25.6        25.2                      Outstanding & Disbursed                      76.1        23.8
Exports                                1.0         2.6         2.6                      Undiebursed                                   -         148.4
of which:  Petroleumr                1.0         2.6         2.6                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursad                76.1       172
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through - 1974
US $ 1.00 * La. 0.348
La.  1.00 - US $2.872
Since March 1972 Effective Rate of Exchange La. 1.00 - US $2.50 for all transactions except for the proceeds from
cotton exports which are converted at the official exchange rate.
1/ Ratio of Debt Sarvice to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
October 14, 1975
Eastern Africa, Prograw. I



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of Aug. 31, 1975)
Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No.  Year    Borrower             Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                127.2    12.4
Credit 122   1968   Sudan        Education I                       8.5         6.2
Credit 311  1972    Sudan        Mechanized Farming II            11.2         8.9
Credit 331   1972   Sudan        Highway                            7.0        6.3
Credit 364  1973    Sudan        Rahad Irrigation                 42.0        38.1
Credit 364-2 1975   Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)               20.0        20.0
Credit 447  1973    Sudan        Industrial Bank of Sudan          4.0         1.6
Credit 457  1974    Sudan        Railways III                     24.0        23.9
Credit 476  1974    Sudan        Agriucltural Rehabilita-         10.7        10.4
tion Project
Credit 547   1975   Sudan        Education II                     10.0        10.0
Credit 564   1975   Sudan        Power II                 _        23.0       23.0
127.2   172.8       148.4
Total -
Of which has been repaid                              51.1       .6
Total now outstanding                                   76.1   172.2
Amount sold                       5.8
Of which has been repaid        5.8
Total now held by Bank and ID)A a/                      76.1   172.2
Total Undisbursed                                        -     148.4       148.4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Aug. 31, 1975)
Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                    Obligor              Business   Loan   Equity    Total
1964     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.     Textiles
and
1972     Total gross commitments                        1.87   0.34      2.21
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           1.65   0.07     1.72
Total commitments now held by IFC              0.22   0.27     0.49
Total Undisbursed                              0      0         0
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments



A!\N- X1 X l II
Page 2 of 5
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and nine credits tCo
the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122 First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Although these problems were to a large extent beyond the control
of the Project Unit, the latter's capacity to deal with problems has improved.
Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply shortages continue
to interrupt construction. Disbursements have picked up and should now go
more smoothly. Slight cost overruns will be met by the Government. Ex-
tension of the Closing Date is likely. We will continue to monitor the
project closely.
Credit No. 311 Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit of
June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish about
140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan - 1,038 acres) was completed in July
1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings. Encouraged by
this success, the area of the original project was extended by 75,000 feddans
and a second mechanized farming project covering a further 420,000 feddans
was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12, 1972. Implemen-
tation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clearing and area
under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other agencies
involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road construction
and water supplies has greatly improved. Progress on road improvements and
construction of a training centre are still behind schedule. Feasibility
studies for further expansion of mechanized farming have started. Disburse-
ments are picking up and should grow quite rapidly now.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



Page 3 of 5
Credit No. 331 Highway Project; USS7.0 'Million Credit of September 29, 197L,
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corporation
in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and mainten-
ance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials. Also
included are feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by detailed
engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry of
Transport in transport planning and training of DOR staff. The project is
progressing satisfactorily on the whole. Although the consultants reports
were delayed, implementation of some of the recommendations is under way and
provided the award of contracts for equipment and spare parts is not delayed,
the project should be completed on schedule. Consultants are working on the
feasibility studies of about: 600 kms of road, which should be completed by
December 1975. 350 kms of these roads are likely to form the basis for a
second highway project in the future.
Credit No. 364 and 364a Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit
of March 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi--desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of
agricultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of
about 14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary
infrastructure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. The Credit became effective on August 29, 1973. Although work got off
to a slow start in 1974, there has been good progress in preliminary earth-
moving, design work and procurement of equipment in 1975. The new management
structure for the project is a distinct improvement. Significant cost in-
creases, stemming from various causes occurred and an increase in the IDA
credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on June 26, 1975. The project cost without taxes and duties is estimated
to be US$240 million as opposed to the original estimate of US$96 million.
The foreign cost is estimated at $160 million as opposed to $64 million
originally. The remaining increase in the foreign exchange cost will be
financed by the Kuwait Fund ($39 million), the Saudi Fund for Development
($28 million) and the Arab Fund ($9 million). The Arab Fund is considering
an increase in its contribution to the project to finance a rather better
roads system than previously envisaged. The Government will meet the increased
local cost of tihe project, totalling $80 million.



ANNEX 71
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 447 Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS) Project; US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project will help the Industrial Bank of Sudan, which is an
existing development finance company, to function more effectively in financ-
ing industrial development in the private and public sectors in the Sudan.
The Credit became effective on March 15, 1974. The Credit was expected to
meet IBS' requirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through
1975, but business has expanded rapidly and the Association had already
approved sub-projects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. A second credit
for IBS is the subject of this report.
Credit No. 457 Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and provide the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary transport
modes by including components to assist river transport, port development and
civil aviation. The Credit became effective on July 29, 1974. Contracts for
supply of much of the equipment under the credit have been awarded. Useful
discussions have recently been held with Sudan Railways about means to upgrade
the standard of operations, which is an important element of this project.
Credit No. 476 Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$10.7
Million Credit of June 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to farmers,
(ii) expanding extension services (iii) establishing a center for nutrition
research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production through a
program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also aims at
rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establishing the
nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit and technical
assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit in the Ministry
of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included. The project
became effective on September 9, 1974. Some key staff members have been
appointed and work     on recruiting further staff and providing housing for
them is well advanced. Seed trials and seed multiplication are under way.
The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed largely by Germany, is
under way. A slow start to this project was expected. In view of the
difficulties faced in recruiting and housing staff for the project, it will
be a year or so before all components of the project are fully under way.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit No. 547 Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of May 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet the high priority education needs,
principally in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development
of a new type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Centre, for curriculum
development for schooling in the rural context and will support an education
sector survey. Discussions have been held on the proposed sector survey, and
good progress has been made on the design work and in site selection. The
credit became effective September 30, 1975.
Credit No. 546 Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit at the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and
distribution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and
services. Procurement action is going forward, but further progress on
the project awaits completion of the reorganization of PEWC and satisfaction
of the conditions of effectiveness.



Page X df 2 Da-c;
SUDAN - SECOND IBS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:              Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS)
Amount:                   US$7 million in various currencies
Terms:                    Standard
Relending
Terms:                    Government will onlend the IDA credit to IBS at
8-1/2 percent per annum for 15 years. IBS'
amortization schedule would be composite of
repayment schedules of its borrowers. IBS would
pay to the Government a commitment charge of 3/4
of one percent on the undisbursed amounts of the
credit from the date of effectiveness. IBS would
relend to its borrowers at a minimum rate of
interest of 10 percent. IBS borrowers would
bear the exchange risk.
Project
Description:              The credit would help meet IBS' estimated commit-
ments for financing the import component of
sub-projects up to mid-1977.
Procurement
Arrangements:             Through normal commercial channels.
Free Limit:               US$100,000 for individual sub-loans; US$1.75 million
aggregate limit.
Debt Covenant:            Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1, as defined in
project agreement.



E.X.
c.6 ae 2  of *   i , I 
Projected Total Commitments                       (In es. miliions)
Year ending December 31         1974     1975    1L976   1977     1978    L979
(Actual)
Foreign Currency Loans           0.7      1.7     2.1     2.2     2.5     2.7
Local Currency Loans             0.1      0.6     0.9     1.0     1.0     1.2
Equity Investments 
Total Loans and Equity      0.8     2.3      3.0     3.2    3.5      3.9
Projected Credit Utilization     1974    1975   1976   1977   1978    1979   Total
Commitments (Total Foreign
Currency)                              1.7    2.1    2.2    2.5    2.7    11.2
Disbursements (IDA Credit)                       1.7    3.4     1.6    0.3    7.0
Projected Balance Sheet
As of December 31                 1974     1975    1976    1977     1978    1979
(Actual)
Assets
Current Assets                    0.7      1.0     1.5     1.0     0.6      0.6
Loans and Equity Investments      2.2      4.4     6.2     8.9     11.5    14.0
Other Assets                       *        *       *       *        *       *
Total Assets                 2.9     5.4      7.7     9.9    12.1     14.6
Liabilities
Current Liabilities               0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1
Borrowings                        0.1      2.1     3.8     5.9      7.9     9.8
Equity                            2.7      3.2     3.8     3.9      4.1     4.7
Total Liabilities and
Equity                  2.9     5.4      7.7     9.9    12.7      14.6
*Less than is. 100,000
Debt/Equity Ratio                 0.1      0.64    1.0     1.0      1.92     2.1
Projected Income Statements
(In is. thousands)
Total Income                       178     274     490     734    1,001   1,283
Total Expenses                     146     229     395     571      694     929
Operating Profit              32      45       95     163     307      354
Provisions                     -       18      23      31      63      104
Net Profit/ (Loss)            32       27      72     132     244      250
Income after provisions as %: of
average net worth            1.2     0.9      2.0     3.4     6.1     5.7
Appraisal Report No. 728a-SU, dated       October 10, 1975.



