CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 589 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second IBS Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER I1, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 589 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second IBS Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER I 9 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1975, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "The Industrial Bank of' Sudan" or "IBS" means the Industrial lank
of Sudan established under the Industrial Bank of Sudan Act 196 1 of' the Borrower
and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Industrial Bank of Sudan of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and lBS pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time,
(d)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be niade by
IBS to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to IBS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement:


﻿4
(e)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by IBS out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to IBS
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which IBS proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment;
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(h)   "Sudanese Pound" and the sign "LS" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
()    "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by IBS or by any one or more subsidiaries of IBS or by IBS and one
or more of its subsidiaries;
(k)   "Industrial Bank of Sudan Act 1961 " means the Industrial Bank of
Sudan Act 1961 of' the Borrower as amended to the (late of this Agreement; and
(1)   "By-laws" means By-laws of IBS as amended to the date of this
Agreement,
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement, IBS may
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of a sub-loan or investment to finance
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested, such amounts as shall have been


﻿5
expended (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) in a currency other than the currency of the Borrower
for goods procured, or services supplied, from outside the territories of the
Borrower; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a
sub-loan or investment unless (A) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Association; or (B) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan
for which the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account; and provided, further, that withdrawals from the Credit Account may
be made on account of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower with respect
to: (i) the c.i.f. (Sudan port of entry) value of goods produced outside Sudan
and purchased from suppliers in Sudan and invoiced and paid for in the currency
of the Borrower, or (ii) the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) or such other
percentage (representing the estimated foreign expenditure component) as the
Association and the Borrower may establish of total expenditures for goods
described in (i) above where the c.i.f. price cannot be established.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed
the sum of: (i) $100,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for any
other project directly and materially related to such Investment Project; and (ii)
$1,750,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts
being subject to change from  time to time as determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in
respect of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the
date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Association. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such other date.
Section 2.04, The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1"'() per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from    time to time.


﻿6
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1985, and ending February 15, 2025, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1995, to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. The Borrower hereby designates IBS as its representative for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted under Section 2,02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Credit is to assist IBS in financing the
development of productive facilities and resources in the Sudan. The Project consists
in the financing by IBS of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in productive enterprises in the Sudan, in furtherance of the corporate
purposes of IBS.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
IBS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and IBS inder terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights inder the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take and cause all its agencies to take all action
which shall be necessary on their part to enable IBS to perform all of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with suich performance.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Cooperation and Information
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of any one
of them:
(i)         exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived therefrom and the
performance of the respective obligations of any party under
this Agreement, the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations, and financial position
of IBS and its subsidiaries and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the progress of the Project, the benefits
derived therefrom and the general status of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance
of the service thereof or the performance by any party of its obligations under
this Agreement, the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 5.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (b) thereof:
(a)   IBS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or 18S shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to IBS having an original
maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become


﻿8
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d)   a change shall have been made in the Industrial Bank of Sudan Act
1961, or in the By-laws so as, in the judgment of the Association, to affect materially
and adversely the carrying out of the Project or the objectives, operations or
financial condition of IBS;
(e)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of IBS; and
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by IBS, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of IBS's business or IBS's financial position or the efficiency
of IBS's management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (f) of Section 5.01 hereof
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of said Section shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on
behalf of IBS or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and IBS or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, IBS and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of IBS in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and IBS and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and IBS in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date February 9, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
0
Section 7.01. The Commissioner General for Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Conmmission
The Democratic Republic
of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartourn, Sudan
Cable address:
ElMAR
lKhartoum1, Sudan


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through     their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Francis M. Deng
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s / Michael H. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
(1)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement."
(2)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03 and the term "Investment Project" shall have
the meaning set forth in Section 1.02(g) of the Development Credit Agreement.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount
of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the'
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(4)   The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(5)   The words "Development Credit Agreement, and any other agreement
to which these General Conditions shall be made applicable" in Section 8.01(b)
are deleted and replaced by the words "Development Credit Agreement, the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement"; and the term "Subsidiary Loan
Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.02(c) of the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿12
(6)   Paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 9.01 are deleted.
(7)   The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.


