CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 589 SU
Project Agreement
(Second IBS Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
DATED NOVEMBER 11, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November II, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN (hereinafter called IBS).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000),
on terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that IBS agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS IBS, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. IBS shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, economic,
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Industrial Bank of Sudan
Act 1961 and the By-laws.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, IBS shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from
the Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, IBS shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to IBS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment by IBS of the amount of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to IBS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be used for
the investment and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(c)   Each request by IBS for authorization to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account in respec of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to IBS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Borrower in respect of each investment, shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and IBS shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Association of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan,
of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or
more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Association and IBS shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests maco pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be
submitted to the Association on or before September 30, 1977.
Section 2.03. (a) IBS undertakes that, unless tho Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby 1BS shall obtain,
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal


﻿5
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and IBS, including,
in the case of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate
in the case of any such investment, the right of IBS to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor. and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, and (2) without a1ly
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or IBS shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with IBS: and (vii) require the Investment
Enterprise to assume any risk of loss resulting from changes in the rate of exchange
between the currencies used in its operations relating to the Investment Project.
(b)   IBS shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in
such manner as to: (i) protect the interest of the Association and IBS; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement and ,the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c)   IBS shall submit to the Association, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by JBS in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.04. IBS shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds


﻿6
of the Credit relent to IBS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Project,
the Investment Enterorises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and
investments.
Section 2.05. IBS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and any other agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of IBS by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. IBS shall promptly inform the Association
of any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating
or waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.06. If IBS establishes or acquires any subsidiary, IBS shall cause
such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of IBS hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.07. IBS shall consult with the Association concerning any proposed
amendment to the By-laws.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. lBS shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of IBS.
Section 3.02. IBS shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of' income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of IBS and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. IBS shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of IBS which, in the judgment of the Association,
would adversely affect IBS's ability to meet its financial obligations.


﻿7
Section 3.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Association
and IBS, IBS shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of IBS and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times the consolidated
capital and surplus of IBS and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by IBS or any subsidiary maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Sudanese Pounds debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by IBS for the purposes of servicing
Lsuch debt;
(d)   "consolidated debt of 113S and all its subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of IBS and subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by 113S to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to IBS or to any other subsidiary; and
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the I BS and subsidiaries" means
the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of IBS
and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent eULity
interests of IBS in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in IBS or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.05. IBS shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself' against risk of' loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Cooperation and Information
Section 4.01. The Association and IBS shall cooperate fully to ensure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and IBS shall from time to time, at the request of any one of them:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the progress
of' the Project, the benefits derived therefrom  and the performance of their
0


﻿8
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of' IBS and its subsidiaries, and any other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other party all such information as it shall reasonably
request with respect to the progress of the Project, the benefits derived therefrom
and the administration, operations and financial condition of IBS and its
subsidiaries.
Section 4.02. The Association and IBS shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance
by any one of them   of its obligations under this Agreement or by IBS of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. lBS shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of' IBS and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a (late twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If' the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify IBS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For IBS:
The Industrial Bank of Sudan
P.O. Box 1722
Khartoum
Sudan
Cable address:                              Telex:
SINAlIE                                     456 Khartoum
Khartoum, Sudan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of IBS may be taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person
or persons as the said Managing Director shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. lBS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of IBS, take any action or execute any documents required or


﻿10
permitted to be taken or executed by IBS pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael I-. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
By /s / Francis M. Deng
Authorized Representative


