Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC5723 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/14/2010 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Pakistan 
Project ID: P121394 
Project Name: KP and FATA Emergency Recovery Project 
Task Team Leader: Cem Mete 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: November 2, 2010 
Managing Unit: SASSP 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Other social services (90%);General education sector (10%) 
Theme: Social safety nets (60%);Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction 
(20%);Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (10%);Education for all (10%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
250.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00 
 
MDTF for Crisi Affected Areas of NWFP/FATA/Balochistan 
35.00
35.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
To support the Government of Pakistan, and specifically the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province 
and Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), in their recovery efforts through (a) providing 
safety net support grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by the militancy in the 
target areas;  (b) expanding flood recovery grants to the poor and vulnerable households affected 
by the flood crisis; (c) providing conditional cash transfers (CCTs) for human development to 
poor and vulnerable households in flood and militancy affected areas; and (d) strengthening 
necessary capacities and systems for post disaster safety nets.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
Component 1: Safety Net Support Grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by 
militancy (total estimated cost - US$180 million). This component would help mitigate the 
adverse poverty impact of conflict by providing targeted safety net support grants to the poorest 
and vulnerable households that have been affected by the militancy situation in KP and FATA of 
Pakistan. The cash grants would assist the households to re-establish themselves and prepare for 
the post crises long term rehabilitation program through covering basic consumption and any 
Page  2
other short term basic needs.  These monthly cash transfers would be provided for the duration of 
6
months to each eligible household selected through an objective targeting mechanism which 
combines proxies for poverty (household assets and household characteristics such as the 
schooling attainment of the head of the household) and vulnerability (such as displacement status 
and losses directly linked to crisis).  Consistent with experiences from the post earthquake 
Livelihood Support Cash Grants (LSCG- 2005) and as agreed with the government, the project 
will also consider continuation of the same amount of monthly grants to those beneficiaries who 
are extremely poor and/or most vulnerable, as verified through the above mentioned instrument 
(but only for those who qualify under a more stringent cut-off point) for an additional six 
months.  The component will be financed by the IDA Credit in the amount of US$145 million 
and by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) grant of US$35 million.  
 
Component 2: Targeted Cash Grants for Flood Recovery and Human Development (total 
estimated cost # US$85 million).  
 
Sub-Component A: Expansion of Flood Recovery Grants in the Flood Affected Districts of KP 
(total estimated cost # US$ 17 million): This sub-component would help reduce the poverty 
impact of the flood on affected populations through the provision of flood recovery grants, 
targeted to the poorest and most vulnerable households in KP. The Government of KP (GoKP) 
has estimated approximately 250,000 flood affected households eligible for flood recovery cash 
grants.  It has been decided to cover 200,000 households under the #National Disaster Relief 
Program# (NDRP) - a collaborative program of the federal and provincial governments.  The 
phase 1 of the NDRP is underway, which covers 100,000 households.  From the universe of 
remaining 150,000 households, this component would support approximately 50,000 flood 
affected households with lump sum one-time flood recovery grants not covered under the NDRP.  
Beneficiary households would be identified using an objective poverty and vulnerability 
targeting criteria that would also ensure that the beneficiary households are not covered under 
any other similar program of the government.  
 
Sub-component B: Conditional Cash Transfers for Human Development (total estimated cost # 
US$ 68 million): These cash grants would be used to encourage behaviors that promote human 
development, by requiring the registered households to comply with pre-established co-
responsibilities such as sending their children to primary school (where such services are 
accessible) to ensure continuity of cash assistance. The target group will be the poor and 
vulnerable households qualifying the CCT criteria in both militancy crises and flood affected 
areas. The allocation for this component will also provide funds to component 3 (the amount to 
be determined after the finalization of the design of CCTs), to cover the investment costs for 
CCTs# administration such as the program enrollment; compliance monitoring; and provision of 
advisory services to the beneficiaries. 
 
Component 3:  Capacity Building and Implementation Support (total estimated cost -US $20 
million). This component would finance necessary capacity building and implementation support 
to the project implementation agency i.e. PaRRSA to ensure the successful implementation of 
the project. This would include financing of technical assistance, training, equipment and 
software, as well as incremental operating costs.  This component would also provide for 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities, including third party inspections and 
Page  3
validations such as Process Evaluations and Spot Checks, as well as ex-post beneficiary surveys. 
Selected third party inspection activities will be financed directly from the Bank#s supervision 
budget of the project.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The initial geographical scope of the project includes five districts of KP (Swat, Shangla, Buner, 
Lower & Upper Dir) and two tribal agencies (Bajaur and Mohmand) of FATA.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The proposed project interventions, which are limited to cash transfers and capacity building are 
environmentally benign.  An Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework is 
not required for this project.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Javaid Afzal (SASDI) 
Mr Peter F. B. A. Lafere (SASDS) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  10/01/2010 
 
Page  4
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
N/A   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Cem Mete 
10/01/2010 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
10/01/2010 
Comments:  cleared endorsing category C on understanding that no physical works will be undertaken 
under the project. 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Mansoora Rashid 
10/01/2010 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
