Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5858 
Project Name 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other Social Services (90%), General Education Sector 
(10%)
 
Project ID 
P121394 
Borrower(s) 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Provincial Relief Rehabilitation and Settlement Authority 
(PaRRSA), Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) 
Contact Person:  Shakeel Qadir 
Telephone No.:  92-91-9213855 
Fax No.:  92-91-9214025 
Email:  
sqk28@yahoo.com
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 29, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 6, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 2, 2010 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
1. 
Key development issues:
 Pakistan now faces an emergency of historic proportions 
caused by two main events: the ongoing militancy crisis and the July/August 2010 floods.  In 
early 2009, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) launched major military operations in Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa (KP) Province and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) to root out 
the local pockets of militants. This led to significant damage to physical infrastructure and 
services while creating a large population of internally displaced persons (IDPs) who lost their 
homes and livelihoods. In 2009, approximately 3 million people were displaced in KP and 
FATA.  About 7 percent of displaced families moved to camps, the rest occupied schools, 
public buildings and moved in with host families mostly in FATA, Swabi and Mardan districts 
of KP. The crisis affected not only the IDPs but also those who stayed behind: those who stayed 
behind tend to be just as poor and vulnerable as the IDPs.
1
2. 
The on-going security challenges facing Pakistan have been amplified by the recent 
floods, resulting in enormous destruction, further large scale internal migration/displacement, 
and massive loss of livelihood.  The situation is exacerbated in KP, which was still struggling 
with the rehabilitation of IDPs in the crisis affected districts. According to latest updates 
provided by National and Provincial Disaster Management Authorities, about 20 million people 
have been affected. The official death toll has risen to more than 1,300, with more than 1,600 
people reported as injured.  Over 722,000 houses have been either damaged or destroyed. 
1
Based on the household survey data analysis reported by ‘Food Security and Market Assessment in Crisis 
Affected Areas of KP and FATA’, World Food Program, 2010 
Page  2
Assessments continue to establish the degree to which affected populations are in need of 
immediate assistance. 
3. 
In the face of each of the devastating series of crises that has confronted KP and FATA, 
the federal and provincial governments have embarked on rapid and ambitious post-militancy 
crisis relief, recovery and reconstruction in collaboration with international and national 
humanitarian agencies. The Government as well as a variety of international and national 
organizations has provided relief assistance to meet the immediate needs of the affected 
population following each of the successive disasters.  
4. 
Government has also launched various assessments for strategic medium to long term 
support for the region.  A Damages and Needs Assessment (DNA) was completed in 2009 with 
World Bank and ADB support covering the areas first affected by the government’s action to 
combat the militants.
2
Subsequently a Post Crisis Needs Assessment (PCNA), supported by the 
ADB, EC, UN and the Bank investigated not only the short term but also long term social and 
economic needs of the region.   
5. 
The militancy crisis PCNA identifies the provision of unconditional and conditional 
cash benefits as a priority area for the social protection sector. It also recommends employment 
and asset generating schemes (public/community works, income generating programs and skills 
training), community mobilization and empowerment, selected social care services, and 
conditional cash transfers in the education sector not only as a short-term measure to keep 
children in school but also as a long-term peace building initiative. The PCNA also 
acknowledges the need for the project instruments to be flexible, due to continued fighting and 
possible displacements as well as the high likelihood of further natural disasters in the region 
such as landslides, floods, drought and earthquakes. The proposed project is fully consistent 
with the PCNA, directly supporting the strategic objective “Responsiveness and Effectiveness 
of the State and Civil Society”. 
6. 
A flood DNA is currently underway, which is expected to be completed by mid-October 
2010. Meanwhile numerous agencies are providing a whole range of supplies and services to 
mitigate the effects of the different disasters.
 
7. 
When faced with crisis and shock, households adopt strategies of four categories: i) 
reduction in household net worth (dis-saving) or increase in borrowing, ii) increase household 
labor supply, iii) reduction in consumption, and iv) use of assistance.
3
Poorer households are 
less likely to have much household net worth (i.e. assets to sell) and if they do not have access 
to government assistance are found to use the strategies of increasing labor supply or reducing 
consumption.
4
Reducing the quantity and quality of food consumption has adverse impact on 
the growth and cognitive development of children. In Pakistan, 8 percent of households with 
children hit by incomes shocks took their children out of school; and 10 percent of households 
had to put their child to work.
5
In Bangladesh, more than a third of households with school-
2
Swat, Upper and Lower Dir, Buner, Shangla, Mohmand, and Bajaur 
3
Ref. Social Protection in Pakistan: Managing Household Risks and Vulnerability, World Bank 2007 
4
Ibid. 
5
Modernizing Safety Nets in South Asia: Improving Regional Responses to Chronic and Transient Poverty, Celine 
Ferre and Mansoora Rashid, 2010 unpublished.  
Page  3
going children report reducing education-related expenditures, and a similar nearly 8 percent of 
such households took their children out of school.
6
Households that are already near the limits 
of their livelihood will be hardest hit and will find it hardest to overcome shocks, often leading 
them into a deepening cycle of poverty and vulnerability.   Among the poorest, because their 
level of consumption is already low, the consequences of reduced consumption are potentially 
devastating.    Families first reduce the quality and diversity of food, and then decrease the 
frequency of meals and redistribute food towards the principal earner and away from women 
and girls.  This can result in malnourishment and micronutrient deficiency among children, 
pregnant and nursing mothers with devastation effects on their physical and cognitive 
development.
7
Increasing labor of the existing bread winners has clear limits.  Poor families are 
consequently forced to employ other more extreme strategies such as child labor or bonded 
labor, both of which have devastating impact on the family’s future livelihood options.  The 
evidence is that emergency cash transfers to poor and vulnerable families may not only maintain 
their present status, but will prevent significant deterioration of the future development potential 
of poor families. 
8. 
Rationale for the Bank involvement:
 The Government of Pakistan has requested the 
Bank’s urgent assistance in this emergency situation.  The magnitude and challenges associated 
with the militancy and flood crises require the mobilization of a significant amount of resources 
in a timely manner to prevent or diminish the negative effects of shocks outlined in the previous 
paragraph.  Following the Government’s request the Bank is co-leading the flood DNA 
preparation effort with ADB, which will help inform and coordinate international partners’ 
response to the crises.  In parallel, the Bank is providing assistance in areas where the needs are 
obvious and timely interventions are especially important.  
9. 
Furthermore, the World Bank is well placed to help Pakistan cope with these challenges 
due to its substantial international and regional experience (including Tsunami and Sri Lanka 
post-conflict response) in protecting the poor through safety net programs after natural disasters 
and post conflict situations.  The Bank also has considerable experience in crisis response in 
Pakistan. In 2005, it responded quickly to the post earthquake crisis, by helping finance the 
design and delivery of livelihood support cash grants to the poor and the provision of social care 
services to the disabled to earth quake affected populations.  More recently, the Bank is 
supporting social protection sector reforms in Pakistan through a Development Policy Credit 
accompanied by a Social Safety Net Technical Assistance Project for the Benazir Income 
Support Program (BISP) with the objective of developing and strengthening a national social 
safety net system for the country.  
II. Proposed 
objective(s) 
10. 
The development objective of the project is to support the Government of Pakistan, and 
specifically the KP province and FATA, in their recovery efforts through (a) providing safety 
net support grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by the militancy in the target 
areas, (b) expanding targeted cash grants, including for flood relief and human development, for 
households in flood and militancy affected areas; (c) providing conditional cash transfers 
(CCTs) for human development to poor and vulnerable households in flood and militancy 
6
Bangladesh: Poverty Assessment for Bangladesh. Creating Opportunities and Bridging the East-West Divide, 
World Bank 2008, Report No 44321- BD. 
7
Schlichting, D. “Risks, vulnerabilities and coping mechanisms of the poor: an overview of NWFP” Mimeo, 2005 
Page  4
affected areas; and (d) strengthening necessary capacities and systems for post disaster safety 
nets.   
III. Preliminary 
description 
11. 
The proposed project is an early recovery mechanism that proposes to bridge the gap 
between relief efforts and reconstruction by providing cash grants directly to households 
affected by both crises.  In the case of the conflict, most of the militancy affected households 
have already returned to their homes, many finding their homes damaged and looted, and their 
livelihoods destroyed. The safety net support grant (component 1) would provide the poorest 
and most vulnerable of these households with the needed means to start recovery from the 
economic shock they experienced. In the case of floods, the flood victims not covered under the 
NDRP would receive targeted flood recovery grants (component 2: sub-component A) to cover 
their basic needs during the initial recovery phase. The poorest of both beneficiary groups in 
selected areas would then be eligible for the additional cash grant to facilitate among others, 
their children going to school if they comply with this co-responsibility, and depending on 
accessibilities of services (component 2: sub-component B).
 
Project description
:
Component 1: Safety Net Support Grants to poor and vulnerable households affected 
by militancy
 (total estimated cost - US$180 million). This component would help mitigate 
the adverse poverty impact of conflict by providing targeted safety net support grants to the 
poorest and vulnerable households that have been affected by the militancy situation in KP 
and FATA of Pakistan. The cash grants would assist the households to re-establish 
themselves and prepare for the post crises long term rehabilitation program through 
covering basic consumption and any other short term basic needs.  These monthly cash 
transfers would be provided for the duration of 6 months to each eligible household selected 
through an objective targeting mechanism which combines proxies for poverty (household 
assets and household characteristics such as the schooling attainment of the head of the 
household) and vulnerability (such as displacement status and losses directly linked to 
crisis).  Consistent with experiences from the post earthquake Livelihood Support Cash 
Grants (LSCG- 2005) and as agreed with the government, the project will also consider 
continuation of the same amount of monthly grants to those beneficiaries who are extremely 
poor and/or most vulnerable, as verified through the above mentioned instrument (but only 
for those who qualify under a more stringent cut-off point) for an additional six months.  
The component will be financed by the IDA Credit in the amount of US$145 million and by 
the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) grant of US$35 million.  
 
Component 2: Targeted Cash Grants for Flood Recovery and Human Development
 
(total estimated cost 
–
US$85 million).  
Sub-Component A: Expansion of Flood Recovery Grants in the Flood Affected Districts of 
KP
 
(total estimated cost – US$ 17 million):
 
This sub-component
 
would help reduce the 
poverty impact of the flood on affected populations through the provision of flood recovery 
grants, targeted to the poorest and most vulnerable households in KP. The Government of 
KP (GoKP) has estimated approximately 250,000 flood affected households eligible for 
flood recovery cash grants.  It has been decided to cover 200,000 households under the 
“National Disaster Relief Program” (NDRP) - a collaborative program of the federal and 
Page  5
provincial governments.  The phase 1 of the NDRP is underway, which covers 100,000 
households.  From the universe of remaining 150,000 households, this component would 
support approximately 50,000 flood affected households with lump sum one-time flood 
recovery grants not covered under the NDRP.  Beneficiary households would be identified 
using an objective poverty and vulnerability targeting criteria that would also ensure that the 
beneficiary households are not covered under any other similar program of the government.  
Sub-component B: Conditional Cash Transfers for Human Development
 
(total estimated 
cost 
–
US$ 68 million): These cash grants would be used to encourage behaviors that 
promote human development, by requiring the registered households to comply with pre-
established co-responsibilities such as sending their children to primary school (where such 
services are accessible) to ensure continuity of cash assistance. The target group will be the 
poor and vulnerable households qualifying the CCT criteria in both militancy crises and 
flood affected areas. The allocation for this component will also provide funds to component 
3
(the amount to be determined after the finalization of the design of CCTs), to cover the 
investment costs for CCTs’ administration such as the program enrollment; compliance 
monitoring; and provision of advisory services to the beneficiaries. 
Component 3:  Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
(total estimated cost -
US $20 million).
 
This component would finance necessary capacity building and 
implementation support to the project implementation agency 
i.e.,
 the 
Provincial Relief 
Rehabilitation and Settlement Authority (
PaRRSA), to ensure the successful 
implementation of the project. This would include financing of technical assistance, 
training, equipment and software, as well as incremental operating costs.  This component 
would also provide for supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities, including third 
party inspections and validations such as Process Evaluations and Spot Checks, as well as 
ex-post beneficiary surveys.  Selected third party inspection activities will be financed 
directly from the Bank’s supervision budget of the project.   
IV. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
12. 
The proposed project interventions are limited to cash transfers and capacity building, 
which are environmentally benign. It is therefore not anticipated that the project will result in 
any significant adverse or irreversible environmental and social impacts.  Hence, the proposed 
project is likely to be classified as category ‘C’. 
13. 
The borrower has prepared a Social Assessment in which they have identified no need 
for social safeguards.  The social assessment, in conjunction with the vulnerability assessments, 
informs the borrower on vulnerable population groups that require additional outreach 
mechanisms. 
V. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
Government of Pakistan (BORROWER) 
0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
Multi Donor Trust Fund Cofinancing  
250 
 
35
TOTAL
 
285 
Page  6
VI. Contact 
point 
Contact: Cem Mete 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: +1-202-458-2810 
Fax: +1-202-522-2955 
Email: cmete@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, D.C. (IBRD) 
VII. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
