                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                            Report No: 56481




                             EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                                   PROPOSED CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 163.9 MILLION
                            (US$250 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                          FOR A

     KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA AND FATA EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                                    December 28, 2010




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document is being made publicly available prior to Board consideration. This does not
imply a presumed outcome. This document may be updated following Board consideration and
the updated document will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank's Policy on
Access to Information.
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective = Nov 30, 2010)
                              Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees
                                   US$1.00 = PKR 85.73
                               US$1.52578 = SDR 1.00

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 ­ June 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACS      Additional Chief Secretary
ADB      Asian Development Bank
ATM      Automatic Teller Machine
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
BISP     Benazir Income Support Program
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfers
CNIC     Computerized National Identity Card
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CQS      Selection based on Consultants Qualifications
DA       Designated Accounts
DAO      District Appeal Officer
DCO      District Coordination Officer
DDRC     District Data Resource Center
DFID     Department for International Development
DNA      Damage and Needs Assessment
DRC      Data Resource Center
EMIS     Education Management Information System
ERP      Emergency Recovery Project
ESSAF    Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework

FATA     Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FAO      Food and Agricultural Organization
FBS      Selection under a Fixed Budget
FM       Financial Management
GC       Grievance Committee
GFDRR    Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
GoKP     Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
GoP      Government of Pakistan
GPS      Global Positioning System
HH       Household Head
HIES     Household Integrated Economic Survey
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced Persons
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
IOM      International Organization for Migration
IUFR     Interim Unaudited Financial Report
JICA     Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KP       Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province
LCS      Least Cost Selection
LIB      Limited International Bidding
LSCG     Livelihood Support Cash Grants
MDTF     Multi Donor Trust Fund
MIS      Management Information System
MoU       Memorandum of Understanding
MT        Master Trainer
NADRA     National Database and Registration Authority
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NDRP      National Disaster Relief Program
NDMA      National Disaster Management Authority
NER       Net primary school Enrollment Rate
NWFP      North West Frontier Province (the old name of KP Province)
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
ORAF      Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PA        Political Agent
PaRRSA    Provincial Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Settlement Authority
PBM       Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal
PCNA      Post Crisis Needs Assessment
PDMA      Provincial Disaster Management Authority
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PERRA     Provincial Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority
PIA       Project Implementation Agency
PIC       Public Information Campaign
PKR       Pakistan Rupee
PIFRA     Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing
PIHS      Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PO        Partner Organization
POS       Point of Sale
PPAF      Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
PSC       Provincial Steering Committee
PSLM      Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey
QBS       Quality Based Selection
QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
RISEPAK   Relief Information Systems for Earthquakes, Pakistan
R&S       Relief, Reconstruction and Settlement
SSN       Social Safety Nets
SSS       Single Source Selection
SP        Social Protection
SPDC      Social Policy and Development Center
TA        Technical Assistance
UBL       United Bank Limited
UC        Union Council
UN        United Nations
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNFPA     United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR     United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
UNIFEM    United Nations Development Fund for Women
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WB        World Bank
WFP       World Food Program
WHO       World Health Organization



                            Vice President:               Isabel M. Guerrero
                          Country Director:               Rachid Benmessaoud
                            Sector Director:              Michal Rutkowski
                           Sector Manager:                Mansoora Rashid
                         Task Team Leader:                Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik
                                          PAKISTAN
                     Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

                                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                          Page
A.        Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 8
B.        Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for Proposed
          Bank Emergency Project..................................................................................................... 8
C.        Bank Response: The Project ............................................................................................. 12
D.        Appraisal of Project Activities .......................................................................................... 18
E.        Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan.......................................................... 20
F.        Key Risks and Mitigating Measures ................................................................................. 26
G.        Terms and Conditions for Project Financing .................................................................... 28

Annex 1: Detailed Description of Project Components ........................................................... 29

Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring ........................................................................ 36

Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs ....................................................................... 39

Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ................................................ 40

Annex 5: Implementation Support Strategy ............................................................................ 42

Annex 6: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................... 45

Annex 7: Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................................... 54

Annex 8: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements ..................................................... 62

Annex 9: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ............................................... 70

Annex 10: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework .............................................. 71

Annex 11: Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 72

Annex 12: Documents in Project Files ...................................................................................... 79

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................................................. 80

Annex 14: KP-FATA-ERP Targeting Instrument ................................................................... 83

Annex 15: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................. 85

Annex 16: Maps........................................................................................................................... 86
                 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
   KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA AND FATA EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                        PROJECT PAPER

                                SOUTH ASIA REGION

                                Basic Information
Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud             Sectors: Other Social Services,
Sector Manager/Director: Mansoora Rashid /       General Education Sector
Michal Rutkowski                                 Themes: Social Safety Nets (60%);
Team Leader: Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik         Conflict Prevention and Post
Project ID: P121394                              Conflict Reconstruction (20%),
Expected Effectiveness Date: February 21,        Vulnerability Assessment and
2011                                             Monitoring (10%), Education for all
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery           (10%)
Credit                                           Environmental category: C
                                                 Expected Closing Date: December
                                                 31, 2014
                              Project Financing Data
       [ ] Loan [X] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
       Proposed terms: Standard IDA terms (i.e., a 35-year maturity including a 10-
       year grace period; Maximum Commitment Charge at 0.5% and Service Charge
       of 0.75%)
                              Financing Plan (US$m)
                             Source                                  Total Amount
                                                                         (US $m)
        Total Project Cost:                                                285

       Co-financing (Multi Donor Trust Fund):                              35
         Borrower:                                                         0

       Total Bank Financing:
                                                                          250
               IDA
                               Client Information
       Recipient: Islamic Republic of Pakistan
       Responsible Agency: Provincial Reconstruction Rehabilitation and Settlement
       Authority (PaRRSA)
       Contact Person: Shakeel Qadir Khan (Director General, PaRRSA)
       Telephone No.: 92-91-9213855
       Fax No.: 92-91-9214025
       Email: sqk28@yahoo.com
                    Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
       FY                     2011        2012      2013        2014       2015
       Annual                    10         130       70          30          10
       Cumulative                10         140      210         240         250
                   Project Development Objective and Description
Project development objective:
To support the Government of Pakistan, and specifically the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
(KP) province and Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), in their recovery
efforts through (a) providing safety net support grants to poor and vulnerable
households affected by the militancy crisis in the target areas; (b) providing
conditional cash transfers (CCTs) for human development to poor and vulnerable
households in the target areas; and (c) strengthening necessary capacities and systems
for post-disaster safety nets.

Project description:
Component 1: Safety Net Support Grants to poor and vulnerable households
affected by militancy crisis (total estimated cost - US$180 million). This component
would help mitigate the adverse poverty impact of conflict by providing targeted safety
net support grants to the poorest and vulnerable households that have been affected by
the militancy crisis in KP and FATA of Pakistan. The cash grants would assist the
households to re-establish themselves and prepare for the post crisis long term
rehabilitation program through covering basic consumption and any other short term
basic needs. These monthly cash transfers would be provided for the duration of six
months to each eligible household selected through an objective targeting mechanism
which combines proxies for poverty (household assets and household characteristics
such as the schooling attainment of the head of the household) and vulnerability (such
as displacement status and losses directly linked to crisis). Consistent with
experiences from the post earthquake Livelihood Support Cash Grants (LSCG- 2005)
and as agreed with the government, the project includes the provision for the
continuation of the same amount of monthly grants to those beneficiaries who are
extremely poor and/or most vulnerable, as verified through the above mentioned
instrument (but only for those who qualify under a more stringent cut-off point) for an
additional six months. The component will be financed by the IDA Credit in the
amount of US$145 million and by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) grant of
US$35 million.
Component 2: Conditional Cash Transfers for Human Development (total
estimated cost ­ US$85 million). These cash grants would be used to encourage
behaviors that promote human development, by requiring the registered households to
comply with pre-established co-responsibilities such as sending their children to
primary school (where such services are accessible) to ensure continuity of cash
assistance. The target group will be the poor and vulnerable households who qualify
under the CCT criteria in the target areas. The allocation under this component would
also fund CCT specific implementation support (the amount to be determined after the
finalization of the design of CCTs), such as the program enrollment, compliance
monitoring, and provision of advisory services to the beneficiaries.
Component 3: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (total estimated
cost -US$20 million). This component would finance necessary capacity building and
implementation support to the project implementation agency i.e., PaRRSA to ensure
the successful implementation of the project. This would include financing of technical
assistance, training, equipment and software, as well as incremental operating costs.
This component would also provide for supervision, monitoring and evaluation
activities, including third party inspections and validations such as Process Evaluations
and Spot Checks, as well as ex-post beneficiary surveys. Selected third party
inspection activities will be financed directly from the Bank's supervision budget of
the project.
                              Safeguard and Exception to Policies
        Safeguard policies triggered:
        Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                      [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                   [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                            [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Projects on International Waters (OP/BP 7.50)                              [   ]Yes   [ x ] No
        Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    [   ]Yes   [ x ] No

        Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? (ref.           [x]Yes [ ] No
        Annex 6, Para 32)
        Have these been approved by Bank management?                                [x]Yes [ ] No
                                  Conditions and Legal Covenants:
  Financing          Description of Condition/Covenant                        Date Due
 Agreement
  Reference
Section IV.      Adoption of the Operations Manual              Before start of disbursement to
B.1.(A)                                                         PaRRSA

Section IV.      Select and appoint qualified FM and audit      Before start of disbursement to
B.1.(B)          staff at PaRRSA                                PaRRSA
A. Introduction

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the World Bank Board of Executive Directors to
provide a Credit in an amount of SDR 163.9 million (US$250 million equivalent) to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and Federally Administered Tribal
Areas (FATA) Emergency Recovery Project, in accordance with the Rapid Response to Crises
and Emergency (OP/BP 8.00). This Credit will be co-financed in the amount of US$35 million
by the MDTF.

2.       The proposed Credit would help finance the costs associated with the early recovery in
the militancy crisis affected regions of the KP and FATA. The project will provide Safety Net
Support Grants targeted to the poorest and most vulnerable groups, as well as provide
Conditional Cash Transfers (CCTs) for promoting human development for the most vulnerable
populations. It would provide immediate relief to the affected population in the region and
support the initiatives undertaken by the Government of Pakistan (GoP) and GoKP and FATA in
response to the militancy crisis. Within the larger framework of social safety net mechanisms,
the project will support poverty alleviation and economic recovery in the affected areas. The
project would be managed by the PaRRSA which would work and collaborate closely with
FATA Administration, the line departments of KP provincial government/FATA and with the
respective local administrations.       It would contribute to enhancing the Government's
management capacity and establish systems that increase the Government's preparedness to
respond to disasters in the future. This implementation set-up benefits from the experience of the
2005 Earthquake in Northern Pakistan where Livelihood Support Cash Grants (LSCGs) were
critical in providing affected families with means to transitioning into longer term rehabilitation
measures.

B. Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for
Proposed Bank Emergency Project

Country Context

3.      Pakistan presently faces an emergency of historic proportions, caused by the
ongoing militancy crisis in KP and FATA. These regions of Pakistan have historically held
strategic importance as the gateway between Central Asia, the Middle East and the vast plains of
the South Asian subcontinent. One of the challenges in the region is the arduous mountainous
terrain with difficult access. Tribalism is deeply rooted in the region. During the last two
hundred years of colonialism, the region became a buffer zone in the struggle between global
powers in Central Asia to the north and those in the sub-continent to the south and was, as a
result, further isolated, remaining severely under-developed. When the war in Afghanistan
intensified, militants were pushed into this region of Pakistan and attempted to establish
themselves as a local power in collaboration with indigenous partners. Over time, militant
groups pushed further east across the settled districts of KP into Swat. In early 2009, the GoP
launched major military operations in the KP Province and FATA to root out the local pockets of
militants. Starting from the valley of Swat, bordering the tribal areas, the Government's military
operations have gradually moved westward. The offensive led to significant damage to physical
infrastructure and services while creating a large population of internally displaced persons
(IDPs) who lost their homes and livelihoods. In 2009, approximately 3 million people were

                                                8
displaced in KP and FATA. About 7 percent of displaced families moved to camps, the rest
occupied schools, public buildings and moved in with host families mostly in Swabi and Mardan
districts of KP. The militancy crisis affected not only the IDPs but also those who stayed behind,
some of whom being just as poor and vulnerable as the IDPs 1. The ongoing security challenges
facing Pakistan have been amplified by the recent floods resulting in enormous destruction,
further large scale internal migration/displacement, and massive loss of livelihoods.

4.      The anticipated impact of these crises on the poverty and vulnerability of
households. When faced with crisis and shock, households adopt strategies of four categories: i)
reduction in household net worth (dis-saving) or increase in borrowing, ii) increase household
labor supply, iii) reduction in consumption, and iv) use of assistance 2. Poorer households are
less likely to have much household net worth (i.e. assets to sell) and if they do not have access to
government assistance, they are found to use the strategies of increasing labor supply or reducing
consumption 3. Reducing the quantity and quality of food consumption has adverse impact on
the growth and cognitive development of children. In Pakistan, 8 percent of households with
children hit by income shocks took their children out of school; and 10 percent of households
had to put their children to work 4. In Bangladesh, more than a third of households with school-
going children report reducing education-related expenditures, and a similar nearly 8 percent of
such households took their children out of school 5. Households that are already near the limits of
their livelihood will be hardest hit and will find it hardest to overcome shocks, often leading
them into a deepening cycle of poverty and vulnerability. Among the poorest, because their
level of consumption is already low, the consequences of reduced consumption are potentially
devastating. Families first reduce the quality and diversity of food, and then decrease the
frequency of meals and redistribute food towards the principal earner and away from women and
girls. This can result in malnourishment and micronutrient deficiency among children, pregnant
and nursing mothers with devastating effects on their physical and cognitive development 6.
Increasing labor of the existing bread winners has clear limits. Poor families are consequently
forced to employ other more extreme strategies such as child labor or bonded labor, both of
which have devastating impact on the family's future livelihood options. The evidence is that
emergency cash transfers to poor and vulnerable families may not only maintain their present
status, but will prevent significant deterioration of the future development potential of poor
families.

5.      Over the last two years, poverty in Pakistan is also believed to be on the rise, more
so in KP and FATA, particularly in the rural areas. As per World Bank's estimates, poverty
rates in Pakistan have decreased significantly between 2001/02 and 2007/08, from 34.5 percent
to 17.2 percent. However, during this period there was significant volatility as well, with
frequent interruptions in poverty reduction. Furthermore, in parts of KP and FATA the

1
  Based on the household survey data analysis reported by `Food Security and Market Assessment in Crisis Affected
Areas of KP and FATA', World Food Program, 2010
2
  Ref. Social Protection in Pakistan: Managing Household Risks and Vulnerability, World Bank 2007
3
  Ibid.
4
  Modernizing Safety Nets in South Asia: Improving Regional Responses to Chronic and Transient Poverty, Celine
Ferre and Mansoora Rashid, 2010 unpublished.
5
  Bangladesh: Poverty Assessment for Bangladesh. Creating Opportunities and Bridging the East-West Divide,
World Bank 2008, Report No 44321- BD.
6
  Schlichting, D. "Risks, vulnerabilities and coping mechanisms of the poor: an overview of NWFP" Mimeo, 2005

                                                        9
prevalence of poverty is significantly higher than the national average, particularly in rural areas
due to global increases in the oil and food prices, challenging law-and-order situation and most
recently the floods disaster. The prevalence of poverty in KP overall is similar to that of Punjab
and Sindh, but the province rates unfavorably when other aspects of vulnerability are considered.
For example in KP, 15.1% of households are headed by females while its average household size
is highest among the four provinces according to the 2006-07 Pakistan Social and Living
Standard Measurement Survey (PSLM) (7.5 members, as compared to 6.3 at the national level).
Also, while the elderly dependent population is small, all four provinces have a high dependent
population between the ages of 0-10: Balochistan (33.85%), KP (31.5%), Punjab (27.2%), and
Sindh (26.9%). Human capital indicators are also startlingly low, for example, net primary
school enrollment rate (NER) in Pakistan was only 57% in 2008/09. The education indicators
are even worse in the KP/FATA region with NER of 54% and girls NER 9% below the national
averages. According to data from the annual NWFP Education Management Information System
(EMIS) the overall gross enrolment rate (government and non-government schools and deeni
madaris) is 81% in 2008-09, indicating a drop of 4% from the previous year. The same report
indicates an alarmingly higher proportion of girls (approximately 33%) out-of school as
compared to boys (7%). The situation in FATA is even worse with an overall net enrollment of
28.3%. (Girls 17.3% compared to 39.9% for boys) 7.

Government Response, Damage and Needs Assessment (DNA) and Partnership
Arrangements

6.      In the face of each of the devastating series of crises that has confronted KP and FATA,
the federal and provincial governments have embarked on rapid and ambitious post-militancy
crisis relief, recovery and reconstruction in collaboration with international and national
humanitarian agencies. Donor support is being coordinated by the Planning Commission at the
Federal Level, and PaRRSA has been set up, staffed, and resourced to coordinate and implement
the relief and recovery initiatives for KP and FATA.

7.      The Government as well as a variety of international and national organizations
have provided relief assistance to meet the immediate needs of the affected population
following each of the successive disasters. There has been assistance from a wide range of UN,
bilateral and humanitarian agencies. International partners are providing support to the GoKP's
efforts to deal with the difficult security situation and the recent flood damage. The United
Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF), AusAID, DFID (UK Department for International Development) and humanitarian
agencies have all collaborated to provide assistance to those displaced by the crises. The Food
and Agricultural Organization (FAO) is involved in the emergency assistance for immediate
protection of livelihoods and food security of vulnerable households though provision of critical
livestock and agricultural inputs. Many UN agencies such as World Food Program (WFP),
United Nations Development Program (UNDP), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA),
United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM), UNHCR, and UNICEF are helping
to coordinate relief efforts and provide other support services. UNICEF, UNIFEM and UNHCR
are providing emergency interventions to assist vulnerable children and to reduce gender based
violence.

7
    Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, FATA, 2009

                                                    10
8.      Government has also launched various assessments for strategic medium to long
term support for the region. DNA was completed in 2009 with the Bank and ADB support
covering the areas first affected by the government's action to combat the militants 8. This
militancy crisis DNA estimated the population affected (by the first-phase military operations) to
be 6,494,314; noting that not only poverty is prevalent in these areas but also other essential
daily life amenities like access to gas, electricity and water are not at par with the rest of the
country (see Annex 1 for more information about the militancy crisis DNA). Subsequently, a
Post Crisis Needs Assessment (PCNA), supported by the ADB, EC, UN and WB and issued on
October 2010, investigated not only the short term but also long term social and economic needs
of the region.

9.      The militancy crisis PCNA identifies the provision of unconditional and conditional
cash benefits as a priority area for the social protection sector. It also recommends
employment and asset generating schemes (public/community works, income generating
programs and skills training), community mobilization and empowerment, selected social care
services, and conditional cash transfers in the education sector not only as a short-term measure
to keep children in school but also as a long-term peace building initiative. The PCNA also
acknowledges the need for the project instruments to be flexible, due to continued fighting and
possible displacements as well as the high likelihood of further natural disasters in the region
such as landslides, floods, drought and earthquakes. The proposed project is fully consistent with
the PCNA, directly supporting the strategic objective "Responsiveness and Effectiveness of the
State and Civil Society".

10.    Federal and Provincial Programs of Assistance to Militancy Affected Areas: The
Federal Government has initiated several programs to help affected households in both the
militancy and flood affected areas. These include:

      (a) The Cash Grants Program for the militancy crisis IDPs: After the military operation
          in the Malakand Division (KP) and tribal areas, under a federal program, led by the
          Special Security Group, approximately 330,000 IDP families were provided a cash grant
          of Rs 25,000 each to assist them in their resettlement from base camps outside the
          conflict area to their respective districts/agencies. The identification of beneficiaries was
          undertaken by the National Database Registration Authority (NADRA), while payments
          to the beneficiary families were made through virtual bank accounts managed by United
          Bank Limited (UBL) and operated through ATM cards that were issued to respective
          family heads. The program helped to successfully repatriate all the above families to their
          respective homes. As a next step, the GoKP and FATA Administration have decided to
          provide safety net support grants of a predictable amount and period to assist the poorest
          and most vulnerable of these households to support them in meeting their consumption
          and other basic needs till they fully establish their livelihoods.

      (b) Provincial post-militancy crisis recovery. USAID is supporting PaRRSA through a
          US$35 million project rehabilitating basic social infrastructure in the militancy crisis
          affected regions. In addition, a USAID financed project of US$65 million is under
          implementation for housing reconstruction in the militancy crisis affected areas.

8
    Swat, Upper and Lower Dir, Buner, Shangla, Mohmand, and Bajaur.

                                                      11
11.     Partnership arrangements through a Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) for KP and
FATA. With support from a variety of donors, the World Bank has established an MDTF for
KP, FATA and militancy crisis affected areas of Balochistan, in response to a request from GoP
and development partners. The MDTF is mobilizing donor support to finance critical
investments in support of reconstruction and peace building. It will provide flexibility to finance
stand-alone projects or program activities, including those co-financed by the government,
bilateral or multilateral agencies 9. In the case of the proposed operation, at the request of GoKP
and FATA, the Federal Government has requested the World Bank to allocate US$35 million of
the MDTF to co-finance the safety net support grants to the militancy crisis affected population.
The project is consistent with the MDTF's Financing Strategy, approved by the MDTF Steering
Committee on September 17, 2010.

C. Bank Response: The Project

12.    As mentioned above, the Bank supported the DNA, the PCNA, and is administering
the MDTF. This places the Bank in an important position to assist the government in a
meaningful way through the proposed operation, which would provide the basis for further
investments by, among others, MDTF for medium to long term rehabilitation activities.

13.      Other Bank support: While the proposed project focuses solely on the militancy crisis
affected areas of KP and FATA, the Bank is also assisting the GoP in their efforts to provide
relief to the flood affected population. To date the Bank has made available IDA resources for
Pakistan's floods recovery and reconstruction through (a) US$300 million for fast-disbursing
financing of critical flood-related imports and (b) US$20 million for rehabilitation of flood-
damaged roads. During November of 2010, the Bank fielded a mission to review the Watan
Card Program for improvements in existing design and to suggest options for additional
transfers.

14.      The Bank will continue to provide advisory support critical for the success and
sustainability of overall response to the crisis. These include sharing the best practices in terms
of institutional arrangements to ensure the best possible delivery mechanisms and sound
governance arrangements including tracking of fund flows, procurement practices, grievance
mechanisms, and robust monitoring and evaluation systems, to ensure overall accountability and
transparency. In addition, the Bank will continue to engage with the government on the
necessary reforms such as revenue mobilization and expenditure rationalization necessitated by
the critical and challenging circumstances.


Rationale for Proposed Bank Emergency Project

15.     The Government has requested the Bank's urgent assistance in this emergency
situation. The magnitude and challenges associated with the militancy crisis require
mobilization of a significant amount of resources in a timely manner to prevent or at least
diminish the negative effects of shocks outlined above.
9
  The priority financing areas of the MDTF are (i) restoration of damaged infrastructure and disrupted services; (ii)
local service delivery; (iii) provincial governance and service delivery; (iv) livelihoods; (v) capacity building and
institutional strengthening.

                                                          12
16.     The proposed Emergency Project would set up a recovery mechanism that provides
cash grants directly to households affected by the militancy crisis. Most of the militancy
crisis affected households have already returned to their homes, many finding their homes
damaged and looted, and their livelihoods destroyed. The safety net support grants (Component
1) would provide the poorest and most vulnerable of these households with the needed means to
start recovery from the economic shock they experienced. The extremely poor and/or most
vulnerable of beneficiary groups in selected areas would then be eligible for the additional cash
grant to facilitate among others, their children going to school if they comply with this co-
responsibility, and depending on accessibilities of services (Component 2).

17.      International and national experience suggests that immediate and swift provision
of cash grants to crisis affected families is a crucial element in the Government's
emergency response. A recent paper by the Bank's Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) 10
confirms that cash support, when promptly provided, enables people to survive and get local
economies moving again, but success seems associated with the capacity of the existing
institutions for administering cash transfers. The report states that cash has been much preferred
by Pakistani beneficiaries than in-kind support. Furthermore, it stresses that during the recovery
process, getting cash support to victims quickly increases people's safety and security, and that
such assistance has been a prominent sign of the government's presence and support in a time of
acute need.

18.     The World Bank is well placed to help Pakistan cope with these challenges due to its
substantial international and regional experience (including Tsunami and Sri Lanka post-conflict
response) in protecting the poor through safety net programs after natural disasters and post
conflict situations. The Bank also has considerable experience in crisis response in Pakistan. In
2005, it responded quickly to the post earthquake crisis, by helping finance the design and
delivery of livelihood support cash grants to the poor and the provision of social care services to
the disabled earth quake affected populations. More recently, the Bank is supporting social
protection sector reforms in Pakistan through a Development Policy Credit accompanied by a
Social Safety Net Technical Assistance Project for the Benazir Income Support Program (BISP)
with the objective of developing and strengthening a national social safety net system for the
country.

Project Development Objectives

19.     The development objective of the project is to support the Government of Pakistan,
and specifically the KP province and FATA, in their recovery efforts through (a) providing
safety net support grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by the militancy crisis in the
target areas; (b) providing conditional cash transfers (CCTs) for human development to poor
and vulnerable households in militancy affected areas; and (c) strengthening necessary capacities
and systems for post-disaster safety nets.

20.     Key performance criteria and indicators. The following set of indicators will be used
to assess project performance, including a mix of quantitative and qualitative indicators.


10
     Response to Pakistan Floods: Evaluative Lessons and Opportunity, IEG World Bank, September 2010

                                                       13
     (a) At least 250,000 households in the project have benefitted from either Safety Net Support
     Grants and/or the Conditional Cash Transfers by project closing date;
     (b) At least 70% of beneficiary households are in bottom 2 quintiles of the household (HH)
     consumption distribution;
     (c) At least 50% of households signed up for education CCT show increase in primary
     school enrolment; and

     (d) Institutional arrangements along with a Management Information System are in place to
     coordinate post-disaster safety nets in at least 5 districts of KP and 2 tribal areas of FATA.



Summary of Project Components


Component 1: Safety Net Support Grants to militancy crisis affected households (total
estimated cost - US $180 million, including a US$145 million IDA credit and US$35 million
MDTF grant)

21.     This component aims to mitigate the adverse poverty impact of the militancy crisis on the
poorest and most vulnerable households in the short-term through the provision of targeted
safety net grants 11. The component would follow the principles as envisaged under the National
Social Protection Strategy and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper ­II, to allow the poor and the
vulnerable to fully participate in times of economic stability and growth and be protected during
shocks. Eligible households will be identified through, the poverty scorecard used by the Federal
safety net program ­ BISP (utilizing household assets and household characteristics such as the
educational attainment of the household head as proxies for poverty), supplemented with crisis
specific vulnerability indicators such as the destruction of homes and livelihood, and
displacement, and other such variables mutually agreed between the GoKP and the Bank's
technical team 12.

22.     Cash grants, provided monthly in a fixed amount for a fixed and temporary duration, can
be implemented relatively quickly to protect vulnerable populations, especially to meet the
immediate subsistence needs in the post militancy crisis situation. The project will use targeting
centers to collect information on potential beneficiaries. This mechanism was successfully
employed under the previous Bank funded post-earthquake project in 2005. Data on the
functioning of markets (in particular the availability of food and community level prices) will be
collected regularly and emerging issues will be flagged to the Government to ensure the
relevance and effectiveness of the cash grants.



11
  See Annex 14- Draft Targeting Form
12
   The poverty scorecard information will be especially relevant in areas where IDPs have returned and in conflict
regions where BISP's census based data collection approach is not feasible. However, for the current IDPs the
poverty scorecard information (especially questions about asset ownership) are either irrelevant or difficult to verify
and thus crisis specific questions and other household characteristics will be more useful in such cases.

                                                         14
23.    The cash grant program will consist of a monthly grant of Rs 5,000 (approximately
US$58) per household. This amount is calculated by taking into account costs of a minimum
food basket for an average household in Pakistan and making adjustments for inflation and KP
and FATA specific poverty and vulnerability trends. The cash grants will be paid to the head of
the eligible household for a period of six months. During program implementation, the
continuation of benefits to a sub-sample of beneficiaries would be considered for an additional
six months.

24.     The implementation of the program will be coordinated at the district level, with active
participation of the government's line departments and the Union Councils. Targeting centers to
be established at the Union Council level will facilitate identification of eligible households
through a targeting process. Grievances and appeals will also be handled at the Union council
level under the oversight of district level officials. The Provincial Steering Committee (PSC) that
has the representation of both PaRRSA and FATA secretariat will provide policy guidance and
overall coordination, and will monitor the progress in implementation. The program will also be
subject to regular monitoring and financial audits by the implementing agency (PaRRSA) and
third parties (hired by the project and where needed directly by Bank under the supervision
funds).

Component 2: Conditional Cash Transfers for Human Development (total estimated cost -
US$ 85 million)

25.     The target group for these cash grants will be those who qualify for the safety net support
grants in the militancy crisis affected areas (to cover 5 districts in KP and 2 agencies in FATA;
with the possibility of expanding coverage to other crisis affected areas at a later stage).

26.     These cash grants will allow affected households to invest in their children's human
capital. The eligible HHs to be enrolled for this component will be required to adhere to the pre-
established co-responsibilities to ensure continuity of cash assistance. The co-responsibilities
would be linked to human development objectives including primary education. While the
details are still under development, these grants are going to be a top-up benefit to incentivize
primary school enrolment and attendance of beneficiaries' children falling in the age bracket of
5-12 years. Additionally, the transfers may be linked to preventative health behaviors such as
attending pre-natal clinics, institutional delivery, vaccinations or improving nutrition. Any such
interventions to boost the demand for human development services would be done in close
coordination with the concerned line departments and would depend intrinsically on an
assessment of the supply-side situation.

27.    The design of specific interventions under this component benefits from the lessons learnt
from previous Bank supported projects and pilots in the human development sector, including
the Child Support Program (a conditional cash transfer program that aims to increase the primary
school attendance of poor children) piloted by Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal in 11 districts, including two
in KP. The duration of these grants will be for 3 years with the assumption that most of the target
families will be able to restore their livelihood through post militancy crisis rehabilitation
programs and do not require continuity of such incentives. KP province has an existing girls'
stipend program for the 300,000 girls enrolled in government middle and secondary schools.
Over the years, this activity has shown encouraging trends in improving girls' enrolment. The

                                                15
third party validation report recently conducted highlights the following results: stipends are
helping 17% of the students in arranging transportation facility, around 44% students used
stipend money to buy note books and study materials, 28% girls were permitted by their parents
to continue studying, whereas 32% students used stipend as pocket money. Parents were found to
be very satisfied with the stipends.

28.     The qualifying households for CCT who reside in areas where there is no functioning
primary school will receive a "bridging" transfer, until primary schools are functional or there is
a nearby primary school that affected children can attend. However, poor HHs in militancy crisis
affected areas, who may require continuity of income support, may be eligible for continued
income support under BISP, the federal safety net program, if they meet BISP eligibility
conditions. Those households also receiving human development support grants may also be
subsumed, if they qualify, by a similar human development grant program being designed as an
add-on to the main federal safety net program (BISP).

29.     This component will also cover the investment costs for the administration of CCTs, such
as enrollment (which will require among others collection of school information of children from
the target HHs); compliance monitoring (arrangements for submission of periodic reports by
education department to PaRRSA); and advisory services to beneficiaries (follow-up support to
the beneficiaries who are unable to meet consecutive compliance periods). The details of these
processes will be included in the Operations Manual and the requisite cost will be determined
after the finalization of the design of CCTs.

Component 3: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (US $20 million)

30.     This component will finance project management and monitoring and evaluation. It will
provide support to provincial/FATA and district level governments by financing consultants,
goods and equipment, technical assistance and incremental operating costs. This would include
financing third party inspection and validation through Process Evaluation, Spot Checks and/or
Beneficiary assessment. In addition, District Data Resource Centers will be established to
provide data and real time information to local authorities, program beneficiaries, and civil
society on the implementation progress of the program. Short term capacity building and
operational support will be provided to PaRRSA/FATA Secretariat for the implementation of the
Project. Selected third party inspection activities will be financed directly from the Bank's
supervision budget of the project.

Eligibility for Processing under OP/BP 8.0

31.     The Project is based on the Bank's four guiding principles enunciated under OP 8.00 and
addresses adverse economic/social impacts of crises. More specifically, the project is in line with
the Bank's core development and economic mandate, including peace-building objectives and
relief to recovery transitions; in close coordination with other development partners and with
appropriate oversight arrangements, including corporate governance and fiduciary oversight.

32.   The project is adapted to the emergency's particular circumstances and takes into account
the Bank's assistance strategy for the country. The country lending program is adjusted to


                                                16
accommodate the operation, within the country's general lending allocation, taking credit risk
and IDA lending policies into account.

Consistency with Country Partnership Strategy

33.     The Pakistan Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY10-13 recognizes that conflict
and insecurity represent major obstacles to economic development and poverty reduction. The
operation is fully aligned with the CPS, falling under both Pillar 2 "accelerating delivery of
human development and social protection services" and Pillar 4 "improving security and
reducing the risk of conflict". Under Pillar 2, it directly supports the outcome-area: "reduced
vulnerability through effective safety nets". Under Pillar 4, the CPS considers that addressing
the longstanding economic deprivation and social inequities among the population in the
northwest frontier (now called Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) region is critical to dealing with conflict.
In this context, one stated output/milestone in the CPS, with which this project clearly aligns, is
"social protection interventions secure minimum livelihoods for displaced persons and
vulnerable crisis-affected populations". In addition, the capacity building of PaRRSA will
directly contribute to the CPS expected outcome "Strengthened capacity and strategic reform of
governance institutions in KP and FATA" under Pillar 4.

Consistency with Multi Donor Trust Fund

34.      The planned interventions under the project are also within the mandate and strategy of
MDTF. Among its priorities, MDTF specifies supporting livelihoods (Pillar 4), under which it
includes the activity of providing "cash grants targeted at population living either in the
militancy crisis-affected areas or those who have been displaced by the militancy crisis and meet
objective poverty and vulnerability criteria". Another priority is capacity building and
institutional strengthening of the government ministries and agencies of the Government of KP
and FATA (Pillar 5). This prioritizes activities to strengthen the capacity of PaRRSA down to
the district level.

Expected Outcomes

35.     The cash transfers provided under the project are expected to help families displaced or
disrupted by the crisis to re-establish their households, and will provide bridging income support
until they are able to resume their livelihoods. There is clear evidence from other post-crisis
cash grant programs that such grants reduce the vulnerability of poor families by maintaining
consumption and basic health care. There is also evidence that they enable children of poor
families to stay in, or return to school, and thereby reduce the long term human development
impact of the disaster. The conditional cash transfers will reinforce the positive human
development impact of the cash transfers by incentivizing beneficiary household children's
access to primary education.

36.     The project as a whole will enhance the capacity of the provincial and local
administration to manage post-disaster safety net response. The project development objectives,
the anticipated results and intermediate outcomes and proposed monitoring mechanisms are
detailed in the Results Framework and Monitoring in Annex 2.



                                                17
D. Appraisal of Project Activities

37.     The project will rely heavily on Bank's international and national experience of
implementing safety net programs. In collaboration with the Bank, the GoP has been involved in
implementing unconditional and conditional cash transfer programs. The learning from these
programs has helped in formulating the contours of the proposed project. Both BISP and
Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal (PBM) have piloted their programs across the country and have improved
and documented the complete project cycle in their Operations Manuals and Technical Annexes.
These manuals are being adapted to the requirements of the proposed project and the Bank team
has already helped PaRRSA prepare a draft Operations Manual along with some of its Technical
Annexes (Targeting & Public Information Campaign). The remaining processes of data
verification, enrollment, payment and case management can also be drawn from this experience.

38.    Similarly, experience of livelihood cash grants in the 2005 earthquake project has
provided a rich insight into what had worked, and accordingly best practices have already been
incorporated in finalizing the targeting, enrollment and case management designs. This has
enhanced the level of preparedness of the PaRRSA team to move into the operations.

39.     The targeting tool for the proposed project has also been completed as an
adaptation from the tested targeting instruments used by BISP and the earthquake project.
Section A of the targeting form contains information about the geographical location / address of
the household. Section B includes questions on displacement status of the household (current
and during the last 12 months); reported receipt of other assistance (which would be verified by
NADRA subsequently); and loss suffered due to crisis (house damage, livestock loss, shop,
restaurant, hotel, factory/mine, crop/orchard, land or death of household members). Section C is
the household roster, which records each household member's gender, age, marital status,
Computerized National Identity Card (CNIC) number, schooling attainment, employment status
etc. The last section, a one pager, is a replica of the household assets, livestock and land
ownership questions included in the BISP poverty scorecard (See Annex 14). Since this
instrument is already agreed on with PaRRSA, the targeting teams will be able to start fieldwork
as soon as their trainings are completed.


Technical

40.     The technical design of the specific interventions under each component of the project
builds on the existing recovery efforts of KP and FATA in the militancy crisis areas, through the
delivery of cash grants. KP already has experience in implementing a similar program supported
by the Bank as a response to the 2005 Earthquake. In addition, the program design relies heavily
on (and is consistent with) the Bank's recent projects in Pakistan, including the national safety
net program of BISP; and conditional cash transfers (aiming to increase primary school
attendance of poor children) piloted by PBM in 11 districts, including two districts in KP.
Despite the familiarity of GoKP with similar implementation procedures, which is recognized as
an added advantage, there will be a need to ensure continued technical inputs in selection, design
and implementation of cash grants for the project's success. The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) at PaRRSA is already on board and there are several areas where the work has already


                                               18
started, such as the development of a detailed operations manual and targeting guidelines,
preparation of TORs of process evaluation, training, and MIS.

Economic & Financial Analysis

41.    Full documentation of the causal effects of the program on poverty and vulnerability is a
daunting task even in the best of circumstances, not least because some key effects can only be
observed in the long run. However, the KP and FATA case is even more challenging because of
the lack of relevant baseline data, as well as the ongoing militancy crisis and program
administration challenges that are associated with it. With that caveat, the project is expected to
improve the welfare of militancy crisis affected population in the short term, providing support
to these households as they initiate the re-establishment of their income generation activities.
CCTs to poor households linked to their children's primary school attendance would enable the
poorest households to improve their welfare in the long term.

42.     The project will also build on the capacity of the province to provide cash grants to crisis
affected populations, put in place in 2005 to address the aftermath of the earthquake, and
strengthen its ability to address future crises. The project activities are expected to increase the
complementarities between the provincial social safety net programs and federal social safety net
programs through the use of a common poverty scorecard database. Specifically, the project will
use the poverty score card as one mechanism to identify most vulnerable households. This
process will also help complete the national roll out of the poverty score card for the national
safety net program to these geographic areas. This process is expected to result in better resource
allocation, improved pro-poor targeting and increased coverage of poor households to help them
address basic needs. An integrated and effective provincial safety net system, which can be
scaled up in cases of crisis, would help protect the poor against adverse income shocks.

Fiduciary

43.    Financial management and auditing arrangements. A comprehensive Operations
Manual is being prepared for the ERP, which will define the policies and guidelines for
management, financial management and auditing procedures, including funds flow control
arrangements and financial reporting. Financial Management is further discussed in Annex 6.
PaRRSA will appoint the necessary FM and audit staff and finalize the Operations Manual as
conditions of credit disbursements.

44.     Procurement for the proposed program would be carried out in accordance with the
WB Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004 amended
October 2006 and May 2010; Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers dated May 2004, amended October 2006 and May 2010, and the provisions
stipulated in the Development Finance Agreement. The broad description of various items under
different expenditure categories to be financed under the program is provided in Annex 7. For
each contract to be financed under the Credit/Grant 13, the Government and IDA will agree upon
the procurement method, the consultant selection method, and the need for prequalification. A
detailed procurement plan for the first twelve months of the program, excluding the cash grants,

13
     Grant means funds from the MDTF.

                                                19
will be agreed prior to implementation. The procurement plan will be updated each subsequent
six months. A guidance note on simplified and applicable procedures for all procurement actions
under the program will be prepared. This will be part of a larger Operations Manual to be
prepared and approved by the relevant authority.

45.     The procurement of goods and services other than consulting services would be financed
under the project following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited International
Bidding (LIB) procedures, and use Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Consultants will be
selected based on the Bank/IDA Standard RFP and procurement methods described in the DFA.
Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank will be used for procurement of goods following
National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) already agreed with IDA.

46.     The KP Province is the leading province in terms of procurement regulatory framework.
Under the KP Procurement of Goods, Works, Services and Consulting Services Ordinance 2002
(later an act of parliament), rules for procurement of consulting services were notified in
November 2002, and rules for procurement of goods, works and (non-consultancy) services were
notified in December 2003. These rules however had several departures from international best
practice.

47.     The Bank continued the dialogue under DPC series to align the provincial rules with best
practice. The rules have been revised to rationalize the process of enlistment/pre-registration of
contractors, disallow post bid negotiations, adequate dissemination for fair competition rather
than specifying minimum number of bids, definition of post qualification process, clarification of
two envelope system, revision of rules for consultancy services to cover procedures for various
combinations of quality and cost based selection, disclosure prior to award. The draft revised
law and rules have been approved by the cabinet and the Governor and are placed before the
assembly for consideration.

Environmental and Social Aspects

48.     The proposed project interventions are not expected to result in any adverse
environmental or social impacts.         Consequently, Environmental and Social Screening
Assessment Framework (ESSAF) is not required for this project. Nonetheless, the borrower has
prepared a draft Social Assessment. The social assessment, in conjunction with the vulnerability
assessments, informs the borrower on vulnerable groups that require additional outreach
mechanisms. A public information campaign has been designed to inform and reach out to the
target beneficiaries, which will also emphasize transparency to inform other stakeholders.


E. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan

Institutional Arrangements

49.    The GoKP through an official notification has established a `Relief, Reconstruction and
Settlement' (R&S) Department as an administrative department, headed by a Secretary, similar
to the other administrative departments of the GoKP. It has two specialized agencies: a)
Provincial Disaster Management Authority (PDMA) entrusted with the task of carrying out relief

                                               20
work in post-disaster situations; and b) PaRRSA created in June 2009 with the mandate of
designing, coordinating, implementing, and monitoring of early recovery and reconstruction of
post-disaster programs. PaRRSA is overall guided by a PSC headed by the Chief Secretary,
GoKP. The Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), FATA as a member of the PSC represents FATA
in the policy decision making regarding the cash grants program.

50.     The implementation agency for this project is PaRRSA with the responsibility of overall
coordination, management and accountability of the operation. These functions will be
performed by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at PaRRSA which has already been made
functional through hiring of essential staff for program management and fiduciary controls. For
FATA, a dedicated Cash Grants Regional Coordinator along with the required administrative
staff will be hired under the project to lead the implementation of the cash grants in the two
militancy crisis affected agencies, i.e., Mohmand and Bajaur, through respective tribal
administrations. For the purpose of program activities, the Regional Coordinator, FATA will
report to the Head of PIU at PaRRSA.

51.     To carry out the project tasks, PaRRSA will work closely with a variety of institutions
such as: i) FATA Secretariat: Within the secretariat, the Secretary Social Welfare (being in
charge of Social Protection in FATA) will be responsible for providing administrative support
and coordinating with PaRRSA; ii) respective district administrations in KP and respective
Political Agent Offices in FATA will mobilize staff from the line departments to work at the
level of Union Councils (UCs) in KP and equivalent in FATA for the targeting, enrolment for
conditional cash transfers, and grievance redressal; iii) line departments of KP and FATA will
provide requisite staff for Component 1 and 2; iv) UC in KP and equivalent structure in FATA
will be the most fundamental unit for the administration of cash grants in both components
responsible for targeting, public information campaign, and grievance redressal; v) BISP for
developing a closer interface between the databases developed under the project and the poverty
scorecard census; vi) NADRA will validate data collected through targeting process; and vii)
Payment Agencies (Commercial Banks, telecom operators, etc.) will be responsible for
transferring monthly payments to the beneficiaries and providing monthly reconciliation reports.
The PSC will coordinate inputs of all stakeholders in accordance with the operations manual and
implementation plan. The roles and responsibilities for each of these stakeholders are described
in detail in Annex 8.

Operational Arrangements

52.     The project cycle for the cash grants (see graph in Annex 1) will include a diverse set
of operational processes and controls and accountability mechanisms ranging from a Public
Information Campaign to inform the public about the objectives and processes of the cash
transfer program, a defined targeting process using targeting centers, the validation of the
collected information by NADRA, payments to beneficiaries through payment agencies as well
as an appeals and grievance mechanism to address any concerns beneficiaries may have.

53.      Targeting will be carried out through a targeting process conducted to determine
eligibility of militancy crisis affected households. This objective and easy-to-administer targeting
instrument is based on the proxy means test that has already been tested and implemented in
several districts in Pakistan through the BISP, and includes additional questions that are focused

                                                21
on the particular emergency situation of the household. The targeting survey will be carried out
in targeting centers by teams fielded by PaRRSA who will be supported by district offices.
Survey Coordinators, Regional Coordinators and local focal persons will supervise the roll out of
the survey to maintain the standards prescribed in the targeting guidelines of the component's
Operations Manual. Data processing will be carried out by NADRA with whom PaRRSA will
sign a Memorandum of Understanding for processing of survey forms and to cross-check the
collected data with its national CNIC database through which eligibility will be corroborated.

54.     Beneficiaries will be paid through commercial banks contracted by PaRRSA on a
competitive basis. To determine the most appropriate mechanism for cash transfer in the
affected localities, various experiences to date were reviewed. This included PaRRSA's
experience during the initial phase of displacement, and subsequently for housing subsidy, and
BISP's payment mechanism at the national level both traditional systems (banks and post
offices) and the more recent use of technology (smart cards). After taking into account
transparency, timeliness and cost effectiveness, it was decided that the cash grants will be paid
through commercial banks.

55.     PaRRSA will provide for an appeals and grievance redressal system, accessible at
the local level. Households who wish to contest non-eligibility may formally appeal by filling
out an appeals form. Through the public information campaign, the public at large will be
informed about the random spot checks incorporated in the project design. In case of filing a
claim against quality of service provided by the participating stakeholders, any adult member of
the eligible households will be encouraged to fill out the grievance form. At the district level,
there will be a Data Resource Center (DRC) recording and processing all claims. The entire
process is expected to be completed within a month of the date of filing the claim or starting the
appeals process.

56.     Social Accountability mechanisms will be available to potential beneficiaries. In
order to provide transparency and accountability, PaRRSA will establish a helpline system to
provide information to beneficiaries on the status of their application, to guide them as to how
and where they can lodge an appeal or grievance, and provide information on the progress of any
appeal or grievance. All calls received on helpline will be recorded and regularly analyzed to
check the nature of complaints and identify possible remedial measures and to strengthen appeals
and grievance redressal system. Additionally, feedback received through helpline will inform the
targeting process and can lead to process modifications.

57.     Well-designed Control and Accountability mechanisms will provide program
managers, development partners as well as the public (including beneficiaries) timely
information on the operational effectiveness of the program. Based on international and local
experience as well as best practice, the cash grants will be governed by a set of mechanisms
whose details are provided in Annex 8. In summary, they include an integrated Management
Information System that utilizes unique NADRA IDs to track program details related to
targeting, payments, grievances, and other relevant operational information -- which will reduce
the risk of "double dipping" since main programs operating in the area (both national and donor
assistance) rely on the NADRA IDs to identify beneficiaries; Operational Audits to check on the
functioning of and adherence to operational processes; Social Accountability Mechanisms to
include public information and publication of beneficiary lists at the appropriate sites; appeals

                                               22
and complaint mechanisms for beneficiaries and other stakeholders; systematic oversight by
local actors; a hot line for complaints and confidential allegations, etc.; Spot Checks to control
for data collection errors.

58.     Telecommunication and information technologies will be explored to enhance
monitoring and transparency. Data visualization software may be used to analyze and
disseminate large amounts of financial and implementation data that will be generated over the
reconstruction period and display it, graphically and geographically, to aid understanding and
analysis. Such software also allows for the creation of dashboards and web-sites that will aid
coordination between agencies and inform the public on progress. Data collection can easily be
geo-referenced using GPS-enabled cameras and mobile phones. Combined with financial data
this could highlight potential problems for further field level scrutiny or analysis.

Alternative Strategies for Bank Monitoring under Heightened Security:

59.     The gradual deterioration in the law and order situation and increasing security threats in
KP and FATA parts of Pakistan have increasingly challenged the World Bank's task teams to
find alternatives ways for field supervision and monitoring of ongoing operations. The new
Country Partnership Strategy (FY 2010-2013) also recognizes this challenge and emphasizes that
the Bank needs to find ways to enhance supervision while mitigating risks associated with
operating in a challenging security environment. Following the UN's decision to raise its security
risk levels to Phase III for Balochistan and KP, the Bank teams have adopted several innovative
measures to continue supervision and monitoring of projects in these areas.

60.     Under the proposed project, mobility and access of Bank teams to the project areas is
likely to remain limited given the prevailing security situation. This limited access to project
areas will adversely influence official monitoring of operations both in terms of accountability of
implementing partners and of effective performance of operation. The experience to date of
employing third party monitoring and the promotion of sustained beneficiary participation in
projects, in collaboration with civil society organizations, offers a viable alternative and
necessary complement to Bank's supervision. While the task team will initially rely on this
strategy for supervising the project, it will also explore other innovations in remote supervision
being piloted elsewhere in the region. For more details, see Annex 5.

Communication Strategy for Component 1 and Component 2:

61.     Communication with stakeholders has been given a lot of importance while designing the
project. Based on the experience of implementing cash transfer programs in Pakistan, successful
practices of effective communication have been incorporated and emphasized in the project's
communication campaign. The objectives of the communication campaign are to provide
stakeholder relevant project design information; bring transparency to the process; and develop a
close link with and understanding of the targeted beneficiaries. This can only be achieved
through a two-way communication.

62.   The campaign will categorize direct (target beneficiaries, sponsors, partners,
implementing staff, GoP) and indirect stakeholders (media, academia, donors, politicians,



                                                23
opinion makers and the civil society) and address their needs through appropriate communication
tools. The messages will also be adapted to specific needs of the audience.

63.      The campaign will be launched at National, Provincial and Local levels. At National and
Provincial level the selection of messages and medium will revolve around the objective of
promoting transparency and developing an understanding of the program contours. This will
assist in promotion of the program design and seeking the trust of the opinion leaders, politicians
and the civil society. This will also act as a prelude to the launching of the program. National and
provincial print and electronic media will be used to disseminate these messages. The timing of
advertisements will coincide with the targeting activity to ensure that it enhances the impact of
the local information campaign. Project implementers will be encouraged to participate in talk
shows and public seminars to highlight the governance and transparency features of the program.
PaRRSA intends to provide a public interface where real time data on the program will be
provided. Based on the BISP experience, a portal will also be provided where any beneficiary
can seek information on his/her eligibility and payment status by entering the CNIC and form
number.

64.      At the local level, a Public Information Campaign (PIC) will be launched in the targeted
UCs. The campaign will start at least 7 to 10 days before the targeting centers are established in
the locality. PIC will be more focused to provide information regarding the program processes,
eligibility criteria and associated time frame. The experience of PBM and BISP has provided
valuable insights on the effectiveness of various PIC tools. The project will rely on local and
traditional communication mechanisms adapted to cultural and psychological dynamics of the
area. The PIC is designed to involve local opinion leaders and notables to spread messages
around. The process evaluation exercise undertaken for BISP highlighted word of mouth as the
most important communication tool. It also highlighted that involvement of notables and opinion
leader not only spreads the word but also mitigates local resistance and security threats. In
addition to this, posters, brochures, banners, local newspapers, FM and cable TV will also be
used to inform potential beneficiaries and public regarding the program. Some local mediums,
such as loudspeaker vans, may be utilized, where appropriate.

65.      Furthermore, through this campaign, the communities will be informed about the public
interfaces available to them to make enquiries or register complaints regarding the program. Two
such interfaces include; the Data Resource Centers (DRCs) which will be set up at the district
and provincial level; and the grievance committees at the UC level in KP and equivalent in
FATA. Grievance Committees (GCs) in addition to verifying grievance cases will provide two-
way communication between program and beneficiaries. The DRCs on the other hand will
assist in lodging and processing public grievances on non-eligibility, payments and program
administration. These resource centers will provide, on demand, the information on eligibility
and payments to respective applicants. A third interface with beneficiaries is the toll free help
line that will be available to anyone who would want to enquire about the program, beneficiary
eligibility and/or payment status.

66.     Another important aspect that the project will ensure is the internal communication
within PaRRSA, FATA Secretariat and extended local teams. Program processes and guidelines
are being documented in detail to ensure that all internal stakeholders remain on the same page.


                                                24
PIU's linkage with FATA Secretariat and local setups will be ensured with standardized
protocols documented in the program design.

Financing Plan

67.     The Project will be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 163.9 million (US$250 million
equivalent) and will be co-financed in the amount of US$35 million by the MDTF,
specifically for Component 1. The allocation for Component 1 is US$180 million (US$145
million from IDA and US$35 million from MDTF) out of which based on poverty and
vulnerability analysis of militancy crisis affected areas, it is expected that US$142 million will
be disbursed to the targeted households for safety net support grants (US $113 million to KP and
US$39 million to FATA). The ratio for this distribution calculated on the basis of total
population and equivalent percentage to be likely qualified for these cash grants is 4:1 between
KP and FATA respectively. This also shows that in terms of distribution of US$35 million co-
financed by MDTF, US$28 million will go to KP (as part of US$113 million) whereas US$7
million to FATA (as part of US$29 million). The MDTF fund will be used for the first round of
disbursement to beneficiaries in Buner, Shangla, Swat, Upper and Lower Dir in KP, as well as
Bajaur and Mohmand in FATA. The remaining US$38 million for this component will be used
for extending the same amount of cash grants for additional six months to the beneficiary HHs
who are extremely poor and/or most vulnerable verified through the agreed targeting form with
the government. The table below provides the break-up of Component 1.

                                   Budget estimate for Component 1

                                KP               FATA            Allocation for        TOTAL
                                                               Additional Grants
IDA (US$ mil) = (a)              85                22                   38               145
MDTF (US$ mil) = (b)             28                 7                    0                35
Total estimated benefit    113 (including    29 (including     38 (30.4 for KP, 7.6      180
amount (US$ mil) = (a)+    US$ 28 million    US$ 7 million         for FATA)
(b)                         from MDTF)       from MDTF)

68.     The distribution of the project budget for the proposed Component 2 and 3 will also
follow the same formula at 4:1 between KP and FATA. Accordingly, out of US$85 million
allocated to Component 2, KP will receive US$68 million and US$17 million would be for
FATA. Component 3 (US$20 million), i.e., capacity building for the implementing agencies both
in KP and FATA, would be critical for smooth implementation of Component 1 and 2. As this
component would benefit both Components 1 and 2, it is difficult to segregate the estimates of
KP and FATA. However, notionally, it is estimated that KP and FATA will receive US$16
million and US$4 million, respectively, for the proposed Component 3.

69.    Based on above, out of US$285 million of the total funding amount, the overall allocation
to KP is summed up as US$227.4 million, while for FATA it is US$57.6 million.




                                               25
F. Key Risks and Mitigating Measures

70.     The proposed emergency operation faces significant risks, which are exacerbated by
volatile country situation in Pakistan. The Bank team assesses the overall risks as "high";
however, considering a strong demand for the Bank to respond to the emergency crises, the Bank
team and counterparts ensured that mitigation measures have been sufficiently incorporated to
the project design. At the same time, the proposed operation is expected to have a significant
positive impact on the militancy crisis affected population as well as poor and vulnerable
population. It would contribute to provide protection to these people through the provision of
social assistance that addresses their immediate needs in the post-crises situation. Operational
Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF), analyzing major risks, mitigation measures, and residual
risks, has been prepared by the Bank team (Annex 4). The following summarizes key risks and
its mitigation measures from ORAF.

   (a) Managing the trade-offs between setting up credible and transparent delivery
       systems and public and political pressure for fast roll-out of the program. The
       implementation of credible targeting mechanisms needs time and effort, even in the case
       of emergency. Considering time limitations, political pressure and demand from affected
       population, minimizing the inclusion and exclusion errors would be a challenge. A
       mitigation factor is that KP authorities, at all levels, have been informed and are on board
       with the agreed timeline of activities. Moreover, the significant support through the
       project in building technical and implementation capacity to be provided to the
       implementing agency will enable them in rolling out a well targeted cash grant program
       in a relatively short-time frame.

   (b) Limited technical and administrative capacity of the implementing agency. The
       capacity constraint poses a significant risk to the project implementation, especially the
       implementation of post-crises cash grants at the provincial level. The government
       agencies are already overstretched as a result of their regular development programs; the
       crisis has eroded their capacity even further. However, the project has an inbuilt
       component to augment government's technical and fiduciary capacity as per the
       requirement of the program. This will include support to provincial/FATA and district
       level governments by financing staff, consultant recruitment and incremental operating
       and monitoring costs. Furthermore, KP has previous experience of implementing a
       similar cash transfer program in the past as a response to the earthquake, which brings the
       core knowledge and expertise needed to implement the project.

   (c) From the Bank's perspective, the security environment presents many challenges.
       For field work to support project preparation and monitor progress on project
       implementation towards development objectives, the Bank staff may not have adequate
       access in the high security profile areas. As a viable alternative complement to Bank's
       limited monitoring ability, the project will employ third party monitoring and the
       promotion of sustained beneficiary participation in projects, in collaboration with civil
       society organizations. While the task team will initially rely on this strategy for
       supervising the project, it will also explore other innovations in remote supervision being
       piloted elsewhere in the region.


                                               26
A Framework to Address Key Governance and Accountability Challenges

The Bank recognizes the significant challenges which Pakistan faces in the governance and accountability
environment. In addition, the global evidence shows that cash transfer programs pose significant risks
especially in payment mechanism. Hence, the Bank team has incorporated mechanisms ensuring good
governance and accountability in the project and the achievement of the intended results at the end of the
project. Furthermore, the measures are designed to intertwine with the project components and activities. The
proposed measures in the project are built upon experience and innovations made from the recent Bank-
financed safety nets projects in Pakistan, including the 2005 earthquake and the support to the Benazir Income
Support Program. The key challenges in governance and accountability for the proposed project are explained
below in terms of (1) transparency and disclosure, (2) fiduciary risks, and (3) monitoring and evaluation for the
project's implementation.
Transparency and disclosure in this demand-driven project necessitates an effective public information
campaign to explicitly disseminate the messages containing the objectives and various features of the program.
This will ensure the provision of relevant project information to the stakeholders and also establish
transparency in the process. The eligibility will be determined once the data has been processed by NADRA
through its ID registration system. After the completion of this process, the criteria for the inclusion of
beneficiaries in the program will be defined and publicly disclosed. Moreover, to avoid political interference in
program implementation, PaRRSA will be accountable to the multi-stakeholder Provincial Steering
Committee. The PSC will be responsible to coordinate within the KP and FATA administrations, which will
further reinforce the transparency of the program.

Fiduciary risks in financial and procurement management are clearly identified through the project
preparation. A good payment mechanism in place prevents possible leakages of disbursement of safety net
support grants. The project will employ (1) the use of banking system for timely and direct deposit to the
beneficiaries' bank accounts, (2) the use of CNIC to make sure direct transfers of the grant to the specific
beneficiaries, and (3) independent verification of payments to beneficiaries. Limited fiduciary capacity at the
implementing agency is also foreseen as a significant risk. The implementing agency, PaRRSA, is a newly
established entity and not familiar with the fiduciary-related Bank policies and rules. To supplement this
capacity limitation, the project is planning to hire the required FM and procurement specialists, in addition to
internal audit staff under Component 3, for enhanced oversight for the transactions in KP as well as FATA. In
addition, the preparation of the Operations Manual detailing among others fiduciary procedures is supported by
Component 3 of the project. Given the importance of these fiduciary aspects which ensure the accountability
during the project implementation, the task team has set both (1) sufficient FM and audit staff at PaRRSA and
(2) completion of the Operations Manual as disbursement conditions of the project.

An adequate and sound monitoring mechanism is required due to the issue of limited mobility and access of
Bank teams to the project areas. For this purpose, the project will be employing various options for supervision
and third party monitoring such as, spot checks, process evaluation, and beneficiary assessments to evaluate
the level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with the program administration including targeting, payments, and
grievance systems. Compliance monitoring will be utilized in case of CCTs, for which the education
department will be responsible for submitting periodic reports to PaRRSA to account for enrollment of
children belonging to target households and their attendance records. Furthermore, advisory services will be
provided to beneficiaries, specifically for CCTs to support those who are unable to meet consecutive
compliance periods. Such systems would help in achieving transparency and accountability of systems.




                                                       27
G. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing

71.    The proposed project will be financed by IDA through an Emergency Recovery Project
of SDR 163.9 million (US$250 million equivalent), and by a US$35 million MDTF grant. The
IDA Credit would be on Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years, including a grace
period 10 years. The project would be implemented over a 4 year period, with a Closing Date of
December 31, 2014.

72.     There are two disbursement conditions, as follows: (i) the formal adoption of the
Operations Manual for implementation of the project funded activities and (ii) appointment of
qualified FM and internal audit staff at PaRRSA.




                                             28
                    Annex 1: Detailed Description of Project Components
       PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

A.     Emergency Background:


Militancy Crisis


1.      In 2009, Pakistan Army conducted a military operation within 5 settled districts in KP,
namely, Swat, Buner, Lower Dir, Upper Dir, and Shangla, as well as two tribal agencies, Bajaur
and Mohmand, to rid these areas of the scourge of militancy crisis. The resident population from
these areas had to evacuate their houses and migrate to other areas of the country as a result for
the duration of the operation. The operation has since ceased in these areas, however, the toll on
local economic activities had been sizeable and most of the people suffered a complete loss of
livelihood. Their rehabilitation requires enduring public support that addresses immediate needs
and facilitates total resumption of social and economic life.

2.       Following the end of active military engagement in these areas, subsequent military
operations were launched in other tribal areas (primarily in North Waziristan Agency and South
Waziristan Agency) resulting in fresh migrations of residents from the areas targeted. A similar
level of damage to economic and social life is predicted and corresponding efforts towards relief
of affected populations and rehabilitation upon return are needed. The cost estimates for these
activities are expected to be available after the completion of the PCNA exercise currently
underway.

3.       The figures presented in this section had been developed during the militancy crisis-
related DNA exercise undertaken to assess livelihood and infrastructure losses and other related
impacts of crisis, large scale migration, and return of IDPs. The crisis resulted in a large number
of displaced people with little or no livelihood means intact. A total of 329,792 families were
registered as IDPs in mid 2009 with an estimated 2.5 million people. Their rehabilitation
requires the provision of a continuum of public support that addresses immediate needs,
facilitates their return and rehabilitation, and revitalizes social and economic life by restoring
sustainable livelihoods.

4.       To this end, Government of Pakistan has taken several steps to mitigate the immediate
needs of IDPs. These include, among others, establishment of IDP camps, provision of food and
health facilities, and cash grants as sustenance allowance. A onetime cash allowance of Rs.
25,000 was given to the returning families. By September 2009, 248,250 families had been paid
a total amount of 6.2 billion Rupees through a special arrangement whereby NADRA maintained
and verified the registration process and the database of IDP families. Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal also
provided relief goods and cash assistance to IDPs.

5.      The challenges have been amplified in Pakistan due to the recent, massive floods
resulting in enormous destruction, large scale internal displacement, and massive loss of
livelihood. The situation is exacerbated in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), which was still struggling

                                                29
with the rehabilitation of IDPs in the militancy crisis affected districts. The unprecedented
monsoon-related floods have affected large swathes of the country from north to south and have
also brought a calamity of significant magnitude in the downstream districts of Punjab, Sindh,
and Baluchistan. According to latest updates provided by National and Provincial Disaster
Management Authorities, the floods directly affected about 20 million people, due to destruction
of property, livelihood and infrastructure, leaving a death toll close to 2000.. Over 722,000
houses have been either damaged or destroyed. Assessments continue to establish the degree to
which affected populations need immediate assistance.

6.      The present situation necessitates the provision of income support for the affected people
who were in the process of rehabilitation in post militancy crisis affected districts of KP and
FATA. The Federal and Provincial budgets will be severely depleted due to the massive response
needed for post-flood relief, early recovery, and reconstruction. Many families have lost
everything: their short term income earning possibilities and their longer term assets and savings.
In the absence of an effective post-disaster social safety net system, there is a severe risk for the
affected population to plunge further into poverty that will exacerbate the challenges of
rehabilitation. One effective way to protect the poor and vulnerable population is the provision of
safety net support grants in the short term to address the immediate needs, facilitate and
incentivize their return home, and revitalize social and economic life in their communities as a
basis for the longer term rehabilitation.

Estimated population of Militancy crisis affected areas in KP


7.      The crisis area studied under the militancy crisis -related DNA initiative comprised five
settled districts of KP namely, Swat, Buner, Lower Dir, Upper Dir, and Shangla, and two
agencies, Bajaur and Mohmand. Due to the nature of the crisis, the affected area is not strictly
defined. In particular, adjacent districts as well as agencies from FATA are at a constant risk.
Moreover, IDPs affected the life in the adjacent host districts, which witnessed severe strain on
their limited resources, public service delivery and infrastructure. However, the DNA did not
take into account any indirect affect on adjoining areas.

8.      According to the 2006-07 Pakistan Social and Living Standard Measurement Survey
(PSLM), average household size in KP is highest among the four provinces (7.5 members, as
compared to 6.3 at the national level). Similarly, the housing indicator in the 1998 Census also
reflects high density of 8 persons per housing unit for the KP, as compared to 6.8 for Pakistan.
This number is even higher in the affected districts where it stands approximately 9 persons per
housing unit.

9.      Access to other essential daily life amenities like gas, electricity and water etc. are also
not at par as compared to the national level or with other major provinces. Poverty has always
been a source of concern for the KP, and has experienced an upward trend in the last two
decades. Poverty in KP persistently remained higher than in the rest of the country as a whole, in
both urban and rural areas. According to the World Bank estimates, the Poverty Headcount for
KP is 46% as compared to 37% for Pakistan in 2001-02 (for calculating poverty headcount, the
World Bank has used PIHS data and its own poverty line). The Social Policy and Development
Centre (SPDC) has worked out Incidence of Poverty for the year 2005 on the basis of HIES

                                                 30
2005-06, using official poverty line. According to those calculations, the incidence of poverty in
KP has declined from 39.9% in 2001-02 to 33.6% in 2004-05.

10.     KP and FATA have witnessed significantly higher population growth rate than the
national average between 1981 and 1998. This resulted in additional pressure on existing
infrastructure and facilities, which were already inadequate to cater for the needs.

Table Annex-1.1: SP - Estimated Population of Affected Areas

 District     Population in 1998        Annual growth rate 1981-98   Estimated Population in 2009
 Buner        506,000                   3.86                         767,506
 Lower Dir    718,000                   3.42                         1,039,380
 Upper Dir    576,000                   2.76                         777,119
 Shangla      435,000                   3.27                         619,734
 Swat         1,258,000                 3.37                         1,811,425
 Bajaur       595,227                   4.33                         948,820
 Mohmand      334,453                   4.28                         530,330
 Total        4,422,680                                              6,494,314
Source: Population census data of 1998, extrapolated for 2009



Recovery & Rehabilitation Strategy:

11.     The response to a conflict and/or disaster situation is typically divided into three
phases: First, the relief phase (up to 6 months) would provide humanitarian aid such as food,
shelter, drinking water etc. The relief phase is then followed by an early recovery phase focusing
on recovering livelihoods (6-24 months) by promoting self-reliance and rebuilding livelihoods
through cash transfers to households and re-establishing essential services such as health,
education, water/sanitation, and primary infrastructure (road repair, transport, communication).
During this phase, it is essential to build (if not already there) local capacities to sustain the
longer third phase ­ the re-construction and development phase. This usually starts after two
years of relief and recovery.

12.      The proposed project is strategically placed between short term relief and longer
term reconstruction and development, supporting the recovery of households in the aftermath
of the devastating militancy crisis in Pakistan. In the medium term, the project would build the
institutional capacity of the provincial governments and local entities to respond to crises in an
effective way. It is envisioned that a longer term safety net system being developed under BISP
would also benefit from the experience of this crisis to be scaled up and down as the need
emerges.

13.     This approach is consistent with the militancy crisis PCNA, since it supports the
strategic objective "Responsiveness and Effectiveness of the State and Civil Society". More
specifically, the militancy crisis PCNA identifies unconditional and conditional cash transfers as
a priority area for intervention, followed by employment and asset generating schemes
(public/community works, income generating programs and skills training), community
mobilization and empowerment, selected social care services, and conditional cash transfers in

                                                    31
the education sector not only as a short-term measure to keep children in school but also as a
long-term peace building initiative.

Component 1: Safety Net Support Gr ants to poor and vulner able militancy cr isis affected
households (total estimated cost- US$180 million)

14.     This component will help mitigate the adverse poverty impact of conflict by
providing targeted cash grants to the poorest and most vulnerable households that have
been affected by the militancy crisis through the provision of safety net support grants. The
component would follow the principles envisaged under the National Social Protection strategy
and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper­II, to allow the poor and the vulnerable to fully
participate in times of economic stability and growth and be protected during shocks.
Furthermore, consistent with the Bank's support at the federal level to Pakistan's national social
safety net program, the poverty scorecard will be used for identifying and targeting beneficiaries
alongside militancy crisis-specific vulnerability indicators such as destruction of homes and
livelihood, displacement and other such variables mutually agreed between the GoKP and FATA
and the Bank's technical team. Cash grants, provided monthly in a fixed amount for a fixed and
temporary duration, can be implemented relatively quickly to protect vulnerable populations,
especially to meet the immediate subsistence needs in the post militancy crisis situation. Those
beneficiaries who fit the poverty profile would receive continued assistance through the BISP.
The project will use targeting centers to collect information on potential beneficiaries. Such
centers were earlier employed under the similar Bank funded project after the earthquake of
2005.

16.     The cash grant program would consist of a monthly grant of Rs 5,000 (approximately
US$ 58) per household. The cash grants would be paid out to the head of each eligible household
for a period of six months, with the possibility of extending the duration for those beneficiaries
who are extremely poor and/or most vulnerable, verified through database but applying more
stringent eligibility criteria.

17.     The project cycle for the cash grants (see schematic below) will include a diverse set of
operational processes and controls and accountability mechanisms including a Public
Information Campaign to inform the public about the objectives and processes of the cash
transfer program, a defined targeting process using targeting centers, the validation of the
collected information by NADRA, payments to beneficiaries through payment agents as well as
an appeals and grievance mechanism to address any beneficiary concerns that arise.




                                               32
                                                            Phase out/                 Unsuccessful
       START
                                                          Beneficiary Exit             Appeals


                                                          Successful Appeals
 Training of Component         Cash Grants                                      Appeal and
  Managers and Master       Disbursement in six                                  Grievance
        Trainers               installments                                    Redressal at the
                                                                                District level


                              Eligibility criteria
                                                               PIC for
  Training of Targeting       determination &                                      Receipt of
                                                              Appeal &
         Teams                 identification of                               Grievance Forms
                                                              Grievance
                                 beneficiaries                                  at the UC level
                                                              Redressal



   Public Information          Data Validation
    Campaign (PIC)              by NADRA




  Targeting Process ­ 26
                                  Data Entry
          Days




18.     A targeting process will be conducted to collect data for potential beneficiary
households. The data collection is based on the proxy means test that has already been tested
and implemented in several districts in Pakistan through the BISP, and includes additional
questions that are focused on the particular emergency situation of the household. It also requires
the inclusion of the household head's unique Computerized National Identity Card (CNIC)
number. The data collection will be carried out in targeting centers by targeting teams (fielded by
PaRRSA) who will be supported by district offices, which will also prepare logistic plans based
on district demographic data. The overall training, coordination, budgeting and planning will be
the responsibility of PaRRSA headquarters. PaRRSA will prepare the training guidelines and
train Master Trainers. The Master Trainers will then conduct training workshops for targeting
teams in the respective districts. Regional Coordinators and district/agency level focal persons
will participate in the training and will subsequently work to ensure compliance with the
targeting guidelines of the Operations manual. PaRRSA will sign an agreement with NADRA
for data validation through cross-checking with its national CNIC database. Based on the
corroborated data, the final eligibility will be determined.

19.    Beneficiaries will be paid through an efficient and transparent payment mechanism.
To determine the most appropriate mechanism for cash transfer in the affected localities, the
various experiences to date were reviewed. This included PaRRSA's experience during the
                                                     33
initial phase of displacement, and subsequently for housing subsidy, and BISP's payment
mechanism at the national level both traditional systems (banks and post offices) and the more
recent use of technology (smart cards). After taking into account transparency, timeliness and
cost effectiveness and the particular exigencies of KP-FATA, it has been agreed that the cash
grant payments will be made through commercial banks.

20.     The cash transfer program will provide for an appeals and grievance redressal
system at the local level. Households who wish to contest non-eligibility and/or issues with
payments will be encouraged to appeal by filling out an appeals form. In case of filing a claim
against quality of service provided by the participating banks; alleged corruption; management
issues at the UC or District level; and/or discrepancies in payments, any adult member of the
eligible households can fill out the grievance form. Copies of these forms will be available at all
UCs and equivalent in FATA. Preliminary action on both the eligibility appeals and grievance
cases will be taken at the UC level (equivalent in FATA) by a designated Grievance committees
appointed by PaRRSA. This may include local members of the society such as school teachers
and notables. In case of grievances, the process may involve interviews with the respective
payment agencies, the individual filing the claim, or any other party as indicated in the claim.
The Committee will forward its determined status of each case to District Appeal Officer (DAO),
which in turn will provide its recommendations and update the MIS in the District Data Resource
Centre. The entire process will be completed within a month of the date of filing the claim or
starting the appeals process.

21.     Social Accountability mechanisms will be instituted. In order to provide transparency
and accountability, PaRRSA will establish a helpline system to provide information to the
beneficiaries on the status of application and to guide them as to how and where they can lodge
their grievances or appeals. A Free Helpline will also provide information on the progress of
their appeals. All the calls received on helpline will be recorded and frequently analyzed to check
the nature of complaints.

22.     Details of the operational arrangements including roles and responsibilities, monitoring
and accountability mechanisms, entry and exit rules for various types of cash grants under the
project, as well as other aspects of the operation of the program will be spelled out in the
Operations manual.

Component 2: Conditional Cash Transfers for Human Development (total estimated cost-
US$85 Million)

This component aims to support the human development of the poorest and most vulnerable of
conflict affected populations by assisting them in availing basic human development services.
The target group for these cash grants will be those qualifying for the safety net support grants in
the militancy crisis affected areas (to cover 5 districts in KP and 2 agencies in FATA, with the
possibility of expanding coverage of other crisis areas at a later stage). These cash grants would
be used, as far as possible to encourage behaviors that promote human development. The eligible
HHs to be enrolled for this component would be required to adhere to pre-established co-
responsibilities to ensure continuity of cash assistance. The co-responsibilities would be linked to
human development objectives such as primary education of beneficiaries' children. While the
details are still under development, these grants are going to be a top-up benefit to incentivize

                                                34
primary school enrolment and/or attendance of beneficiaries' children falling in the age bracket
of 5-12 years. Poverty is cited as the most common reason for non-enrolment and dropout in
KP 14. The existing mechanism of implementing and monitoring the stipend program for middle
and secondary grades can be expanded to reach out to other vulnerable group. The recent reforms
in the education department that target improvements in the governance and management of
education will further contribute to increasing the efficiency of this activity. Several donors
(DFID, Dutch Embassy, AusAID, EU, GTZ and USAID) are providing support for
reconstruction of schools, free textbooks, stipends for middle and secondary grades and capacity
building to revive education service delivery in the province hence providing a reasonably robust
environment for the implementation of a CCT program. Additionally the transfers may be linked
to preventative health behaviors such as attending pre-natal clinics, institutional delivery,
vaccinations or improving nutrition. Any such interventions to boost the demand for human
development services would be done in close coordination with the concerned line departments
and would depend intrinsically on an assessment of the supply-side situation.

23.     The duration of these grants would be of 3 years with the assumption that most of the
target families will be able to restore their livelihood through post militancy crises rehabilitation
programs and will not require continuity of such incentives. However, poor HHs who may
require continuity will be subsumed by a similar CCT program being designed by BISP, which is
most likely to be implemented in the next fiscal year. The design of specific interventions under
this component would benefit from the lessons learnt from previous Bank supported projects and
pilots in the human development sector, including the Child Support Program (a conditional cash
transfer program that aims to increase the school attendance of poor children) piloted by Pakistan
Bait-ul-Mal in 11 districts, including two districts in KP.

Component 3: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (US $20 million)

24.     This component will finance project management and monitoring and evaluation. It will
provide support to provincial/FATA and district level governments by financing consultants,
goods and equipment, technical assistance and incremental operating costs. This would include
financing third party inspection and validation through Process Evaluation, Spot Checks and/or
Beneficiary assessment. In addition, District Data Resource Centers will be established to
provide data and real time information to local authorities, program beneficiaries, and civil
society on the implementation progress of the program. Short term capacity building and
operational support will be provided to PaRRSA/FATA Secretariat for the implementation of the
Project. Selected third party inspection activities will be financed directly from the Bank's
supervision budget of the project.




14
 Heltberg, R. & Narayan, A. (2005). Poverty, employment, and social safety nets in NWFP. Background paper for NWFP economic report.
World Bank; CIET International. Gender gap in primary education: Northwest Frontier province. Summary Report SR-PK-nwfp1-97 Pakistan

                                                                  35
                                Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring
         PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project


                 PDO                              Project Results Indicators                    Monitoring Mechanism

The development objective of the project    (a)1. At least 250,000 households in the    (a)1, (a)2. Household survey and
is to support the Government of             project have benefitted from either         administrative data
Pakistan, and specifically the KP           Safety Net Support Grants, and/or the
province and FATA, in their recovery        Conditional Cash Transfers by project
efforts through (a) providing safety net    closing date
support grants to poor and vulnerable       (a)2 . At least 70% of beneficiary          (b). Household survey, stakeholder's and
households affected by the militancy        households are in bottom 2 quintiles of     project administrative data
crisis in the target areas; (b) providing   the household consumption distribution
conditional cash transfers for human        (b). At least 50% of households signed
development to poor and vulnerable          up for education CCT show increase in
households in the target areas; and (c)     primary school enrolment
strengthening necessary capacities and      (c). Institutional arrangements along
systems for post-disaster safety nets.      with a Management Information System        (c) Annual report and Administrative
                                            are in place to coordinate post-disaster    data
                                            safety nets in at least 5 districts of KP
                                            and 2 tribal areas of FATA

         Intermediate Outcomes                  Intermediate Results Indicators                 Monitoring Mechanism
Component 1: Safety net support grants      1. At least 50% of the households in the    1, 2 and 3: Administrative data
to poor and vulnerable households           affected Union Councils have completed
affected by the militancy crisis in the     the targeting forms.
target areas                                2. At least 75% of the eligible household
                                            head with CNICs are receiving the cash
                                            assistance.
                                            3. At least 50% of grievances attended to
                                            within 45 days.
                                            4. At least 60% of beneficiaries express    4: Beneficiary surveys.
                                            satisfaction with the cash transfer
                                            process.
Component 2: Conditional Cash               1. At least 75% of primary schools in       1. Administrative data,
Transfers (CCTs) for human                  the project area linked to the human
development for households in and           development cash grant program,
militancy crisis affected areas.            through regular submission of children's
                                            attendance records
                                            2. At least 60% program beneficiaries       2. Beneficiary surveys.
                                            are satisfied with the cash assistance.
Component 3: Capacity of KP and             1. At least 7 data resource centers are     1. Monitoring reports
FATA government enhanced to plan,           functional to support administration of
coordinate, implement and monitor           the cash grants program and providing
recovery measures                           information to the design of other long
                                            term rehabilitation programs




                                                               36
                                                           Arrangements for results monitoring
                                                                      Target Values                                       Data Collection and Reporting
                                                 Baseline     Yr 1       Yr 2       Yr 3          Yr 4        Frequency and Data Collection           Responsibility
                                                                                                                  Reports           Instruments          for Data
                                                                                                                                                       Collection
The development objective of the project is to support the Government of Pakistan, and specifically the KP province and FATA, in their recovery efforts through
(a) providing safety net support grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by the militancy crisis in the target areas; (b) providing conditional cash
transfers for human development to poor and vulnerable households in the target areas; and (c) strengthening necessary capacities and systems for post-disaster
safety nets.
Project outcome indicator
Project outcome 1: At least 250,000                  0       20,000    120,000 200,000          250,000 Annual Reports Administrative                PaRRSA
households in the project have benefitted                                                                                         data
from either Safety Net Support Grants and/or
the Conditional Cash Transfers by project
closing date.

Project outcome 2: At least 70% of                     -        -           70%          -          70%      End of project     Household          PaRRSA
beneficiary households are in bottom 2                                                                       Report and         survey
quintiles of the household consumption                                                                       beneficiary        Administrative
distribution.                                                                                                surveys Y2and      data
                                                                                                             Y4
Project outcome 3: At least 50% of                     -        -           25%         50%         50%      Annual Reports     Household          PaRRSA
households signed up for education CCT                                                                       and household      survey
show increase in primary school enrolment                                                                    and beneficiary    Administrative
                                                                                                             surveys Y2and      data
                                                                                                             Y4
Project outcome 4: Institutional                       0        7            7           7           7       Annual Reports     Administrative     PaRRSA
arrangements along with a Management                                                                                            data
Information System are in place to
coordinate post-disaster safety nets in at least
5 districts of KP and 2 tribal areas of FATA


Intermediate outcome indicator
Component 1:                                                                                                Admin reports      Administrative
1. At least 50% of the households in the           0       15          50          50          50           monitored          data,               PaRRSA
affected Union Councils have completed the                                                                  annually           beneficiary
targeting forms.                                                                                                               surveys.
2. At least 75% of the eligible household
head with CNICs are receiving the cash             0       10          50          75          75


                                                                                  37
assistance.
3. At least 50% of grievances attended to
within 45 days.                                0   0    25    50   50
4. At least 60% of beneficiaries express
satisfaction with the cash transfer process.   0        60         60
Component 2:                                                                             Administrative    PaRRSA
1. At least 75 primary schools linked to the                            Household        data, household
human development cash grant program,                                   surveys Y2 and   surveys,
through regular submission of children's       0   10   25    50   75   Y4               beneficiary
attendance records                                                                       surveys.
2. At least 60% of program beneficiaries
are satisfied with the cash assistance.                            60
                                               0        60
Component 3:                                                            Annual           Monitoring        PaRRSA
1. At least 7 data resource centers are        0   7    7     7    7                     reports
functional to support administration of the
cash grants program and providing
information to the design of other long term
rehabilitation programs.




                                                             38
                       Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs
       PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

    Project Components and Sub-             IDA         Other/MDTF         Total
             components                 (US$ Million)   (US$ Million)   (US$ Million)
1. Safety net support grants to poor,
vulnerable and crisis affected
households

Sub-total 1                                145.00           35.00          180.00
2. Conditional Cash Transfers for
human development


Sub-total 2                                 85.00             -            85.00
3. Capacity Building and
Implementation Support

3.1. Project Management Support             2.59                            2.59
3.2. Vehicle, equipment and office          0.85                            0.85
facilities
3.3. MIS, M&E, and technical                6.20                            6.20
consultancies
3.4. Payment delivery and transaction       7.20                            7.20
cost
3.5. Media campaign, training, and          0.34                            0.34
printing
3.6. TA for CCT                              2.0                             2.0
3.7 Contingency                             0.82                            0.82

Sub-total 3                                 20.00             -             20.00
TOTAL                                      250.00           35.00          285.00




                                           39
                                          Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
                              PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

                                                               Project Development Objective(s)
  To support the Government of Pakistan, and specifically the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province and Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), in their
  recovery efforts through (a) providing safety net support grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by the militancy crisis in the target areas; (b)
  providing conditional cash transfers (CCTs) for human development to poor and vulnerable households in the target areas; and (c) strengthening necessary
  capacities and systems for post-disaster safety nets.
  PDO Level        1. At least 250,000 households in the project have benefitted from either Safety Net Support Grants and/or the Conditional Cash Transfers
  Results          by project closing date.
  Indicators:      2. At least 70% of benefiting households are in bottom two quintiles of the household consumption distribution.
                   3. At least 50% of households signed up for education CCT show increase in primary school enrollment.
                   4. Institutional arrangements along with a Management Information System are in place to coordinate post-disaster safety nets in at least 5
                   districts of KP and 2 tribal areas of FATA.

Risk Category                      Risk Rating     Risk Description                                        Proposed Mitigation Measures
Project Stakeholder Risks          Medium-L        1. Rate of Grievances could be high due to non-         1. Criteria for the HHs who can apply for the cash
                                                   eligible households claiming eligibility for Cash       grants under the project and those who have qualified
                                                   Transfers.                                              the eligibility will be publicly disclosed. Grievance
                                                                                                           redressal mechanisms will be instituted with
                                                                                                           disclosure of information at various stages.
                                                   2. Tribal Leaders/notables opposing the program         2. Public information campaign to be supported under
                                                   and/or the implementation arrangements as threat to     the project will inform community leaders regarding
                                                   their authority and influence.                          the objectives and features of the program and ensure
                                                                                                           that their feedback is reflected during project
                                                                                                           implementation.
Implementing Agency Risks          High            Implementing agency capacity is weak, including         The project provides for hiring of staff under
                                                   insufficient staff, lack of appropriate skill mix and   Component 3 to support the implementing agency,
                                                   lacking fiduciary capacity. Additionally, there is      including filling key fiduciary positions as a condition
                                                   potential for interference in terms of determination    of credit disbursement. In addition, a detailed
                                                   of beneficiaries (inclusion/exclusion issues) as well   Operations Manual is currently being finalized and is
                                                   as potential for payment irregularities.                also a disbursement condition. The risk of potential
                                                                                                           interference is mitigated by project design, i.e. the
                                                                                                           eligibility determination would be carried out through
                                                                                                           a targeting mechanism (supported by an MIS system)
                                                                                                           and the payments to beneficiaries would be transferred
                                                                                                           directly through a banking channel. This would
                                                                                                           further be supported through an independent



                                                                               40
                                                                                                             verification of payments made to beneficiaries.
                                                                                                             Lastly, a grievance and case management system
                                                                                                             would also address complaints at the local level.
Project Risks
    · Design                      Medium-L           1. Potential problems in the registration of            1. Project approach is building on the lessons learnt
                                                     beneficiaries through the targeting process.            from the BISP- targeting guidelines and
                                                                                                             comprehensive training and supervision plan to ensure
                                                                                                             the efficacy and efficiency of targeting process.
                                                     2. Managing transition from unconditional grants to     2. Human involvement in the selection of beneficiaries
                                                     conditional transfers and constraints related to        will be very limited as the database will identify the
                                                     supply capacity.                                        beneficiaries qualifying eligibility criteria for CCT. In
                                                                                                             addition, a supply capacity assessment will be carried
                                                                                                             out before proceeding with the CCT program.
   ·   Social and                 Low                3. Rifts arising within communities between             3. The project includes a public information campaign
       Environmental                                 beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries.                    program to publicize the eligibility criteria and to
                                                                                                             carry out the beneficiary assessment. Any grievances
                                                                                                             will be addressed by a local committee (e.g. school
                                                                                                             teachers, notables, etc.) to address the issues of
                                                                                                             exclusion.
   ·   Program and Donor          Medium-I           4. Lack of coordination with other donors and           4. Early engagement with notable donors for
                                                     programs, i.e. NGOs/CSOs operating in the same          identification of and coordination between parallel
                                                     geographical areas with similar programs. In            programs would be ensured through the Project
                                                     addition, there are other donors/government             Steering Committee (PSC) which is responsible for
                                                     agencies conducting similar programs with varying       coordination within the administrative domain of KP
                                                     and/or conflicting modalities.                          and FATA.
   ·   Delivery Quality           Medium-I           5. Uncertain security situation leading to inadequate   5. Engaging the relevant agencies e.g. NADRA for
                                                     implementation supervision and monitoring.              data validation, especially the beneficiaries' IDs and
                                                                                                             employing alternative options for supervision
                                                                                                             including: third party monitoring, the promotion of
                                                                                                             sustained beneficiary participation in projects, in
                                                                                                             collaboration with civil society organizations.

                Overall Risk Rating at Preparation                            Overall Risk Rating During Implementation
                            Medium-I                                                             High




                                                                                 41
                          Annex 5: Implementation Support Strategy
         PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

1.      The project supervision plan is developed considering the limitation of Bank staffs'
access to the project area in light of gradual deterioration in the law and order situation and
increasing security threats in the Northern and Western parts of Pakistan. Increased challenge for
the Bank's task teams necessitates finding alternative ways for field supervision and monitoring
of ongoing operations, while there is limitation in supervision budget. The new Country
Partnership Strategy (FY 2010-2013) also recognizes this challenge and emphasizes that the
Bank needs to find ways to enhance supervision while mitigating risks associated with operating
in a challenging security environment. Following the UN's decision to raise its security risk
levels to Phase III for Balochistan and KP, the Bank teams have adopted several innovative
measures to continue supervision and monitoring of projects in these areas.

2.       During the recent DNAs, the Bank task team employed various methods for triangulation
of information collected on sectoral damages and needs assessments. While limited level of
physical validation of damage data through sampled-based verification by the task team was
undertaken in areas where ADB's project-based field resources allowed access, more
importantly, the Bank's task team collaborated with civil society partner organizations to collect
information as well as physical verification of information collected through secondary data
sources. Similarly, the Bank team employed various strategies for data collection and verification
during the pre-assessment phase of the PCNA, through field-based civil society partner
organizations to conduct focused group discussions with community representatives from 10
districts in KP and 4 agencies in FATA. Having a local footprint, these partner organizations
were able to identify a cross section of community representatives who informed the PCNA on
root causes of crisis as well as popular mitigation measures to avoid relapse of crisis in post-
military operation areas.

3.      Under the proposed project, mobility and access of Bank teams to the project areas is
likely to remain limited given the prevailing security situation. This limited access to project
areas will adversely influence official monitoring of operations both in terms of accountability of
implementing partners and of effective performance of operation. In order to ensure adequate
monitoring of project activities, the project staff would rely heavily on third party monitoring
and evaluation mechanisms such as process evaluations, which were used effectively for the roll-
out of BISP and are usually part of any cash transfer program. The experience to date of
employing third party monitoring and the promotion of sustained beneficiary participation in
projects, in collaboration with civil society organizations, offers a viable alternative and
necessary complement to Bank's supervision. The proposed supervision mechanisms include;

   (a)    Frequent Review of Implementation Plan & Progress: The supervision plan
          includes thorough and frequent review and approval of the project implementation plan
          and progress against it. Through these periodic reviews, the team will keep a close eye
          on changes occurring and highlight critical activities that may lead to delay in delivery.
          For quality assurance and verification that the project plan has actually been
          implemented, a third party monitoring team will be hired that will provide independent
          assessment of the reported progress.


                                                42
(b)   Project Design Review: The program design has been prepared in the light of
      experience originating from unconditional and conditional cash transfer programs
      implemented by BISP and the Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal, respectively. Both these programs
      have piloted their designs in various districts across the country. Similarly, the
      experiences from the Earthquake livelihood cash grants 2005 has also helped both the
      GoKP and the Bank to fine tune the design and the targeting instrument. To ensure that
      the design is finally documented and implemented as envisioned in the project, a team
      of international consultants will be hired to provide input. All revisions in the design
      suggested through periodic evaluations will also be handled by the Bank through this
      team of consultants. In addition to brining international expertise, this will also help in
      constant supervision of the design.

(c)   Control & Accountability Mechanisms: There are certain control and accountability
      mechanism which are in built into the project design. The Government project team
      will be concurrently undertaking the Spot Check and Process Evaluation exercises to
      ensure that real time feedback is provided to the program for timely course correction.
      These two accountability mechanisms are scheduled to start at a very early stage in the
      first year and will be covering the complete cycle of operations starting from hiring of
      the team to training, enumeration, data entry, payment & case management exercise.
      For effective triangulation of these findings, the Bank team will simultaneously initiate
      a similar exercise of spot check, process evaluation and beneficiary assessment but
      with a much smaller sample. Other supervision strategies including third party
      validation and evaluation of outcomes, consultations through locally based partner
      organizations, and integrating management information systems (MIS) to be
      established through Component 3 into the monitoring framework will also be part of
      the project implementation strategy. By comparing the results from the reliable
      sources, the supervision team will be able to find out areas of concern which can be
      communicated to the implementers and probed further.

(d)   Possible innovative measures: In particular, the recently initiated pilots of the SAR
      Innovation Team funded by the Governance Partnership Facility grant, concluded that
      in the face of emerging security conditions in several South Asian countries, the Bank
      task teams need to find creative ways to address challenges of supervision in countries
      where access to field sites is not ensured at all times. One innovative way is using
      technological advancements such as geo-referencing through GPS enabled cameras for
      physical verification and mobile phones based voice messaging for beneficiary
      participation, tracking and verification, all of which will be explored under the project.
      In addition, newly available and affordable information technologies (such as
      `episurveyor') would be utilized for the timely collection and analysis of monitoring
      data. While these measures cannot fully replace the utility of actual field visits by Bank
      teams, they provide a useful alternative in crisis affected areas where Bank's
      supervisory capacities are challenged due to limited access. The team will explore the
      feasibility of these alternatives strategies for supervision and monitoring throughout the
      project life.




                                             43
(e)   Financing for the supervision: To ensure the availability of sufficient resources for
      implementation support, the MDTF has committed US$600,000 for supervision of
      Component 1. In addition, US$200,000 from the Bank budget has been committed for
      project preparation and supervision in the current fiscal year. Since Component 2, the
      CCTs for human development requires considerable design and supervision effort,
      MDTF has been requested to provide additional US$800,000 to the task team. The
      team also expects receipt of US$200,000 for each year of the project through the bank
      budget to effectively implement the supervision plan. The team will explore other
      possible financial resources available within or outside the Bank under the Trust Fund
      arrangements.




                                          44
             Annex 6: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
       PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project


Executive Summary

1.      The objective of the financial management assessment is to determine whether the
entities implementing the project have acceptable financial management arrangements including
procedures for making payments, accounting treatment of transactions, internal control
procedures for avoiding misuse or misappropriation of funds/assets, financial reporting and
auditing of the financial statements. The assessment concludes that financial management (FM)
arrangements for the proposed project are adequate, subject to the application of the risk
mitigation measures identified in the table below and compliance with the agreed actions therein.
The overall financial management risk for the Project is assessed as `High'.

2.      The Financial Management of the project would be a challenge for the recently created
organization, PaRRSA. For the FM of the Emergency Recovery Project, to date, PaRRSA has
appointed an Accountant under the project. The Accountant is currently working under the
existing Finance Manager, PaRRSA. However, to ensure proper financial management and
accounting of the operation, a number of additional FM staff including a dedicated Finance
Manager would be appointed. In addition, the project would strengthen the organization's
financial management capacity, specifically with reference to mechanism for internal controls,
budgeting, accounting systems, financial reporting, asset management, and audit arrangements
(internal & external). This would also extend to the FATA Secretariat, which will partner with
PaRRSA (under a MoU) to implement the project activities in the two target tribal areas.
Furthermore, the Operations Manual for the project is under preparation which will define the
policies and guidelines for operations, financial management and auditing procedures, including
funds flow control arrangements and financial reporting. Hiring of aforementioned staff and
approval of the Operations Manual will be the disbursement conditions.

Implementation arrangements

3.      PaRRSA was established by GoKP through a notification in June 2009. The mandate of
PaRRSA is to manage the overall implementation and monitoring arrangements for the crisis
recovery efforts of the Province and FATA. PaRRSA is also the implementation agency for this
project with responsibility for the overall coordination, management and accountability of the
operation. These functions will be performed by setting up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
with essential staff for program management and fiduciary controls. PaRRSA is overall guided
by a PSC headed by the Chief Secretary GoKP. To carry out the project tasks, PaRRSA will
work closely with a variety of institutions at the provincial and federal level, including the FATA
Secretariat, respective district administrations in KP, respective Political Agent Offices, line
departments of KP and FATA, BISP, NADRA and payment agencies.

4.     PaRRSA will be responsible for the overall management of project funds. Both IDA and
MDTF funds to be provided under the project will be routed and managed through PaRRSA
under the agreed financial management arrangements. The IDA funds would be credited to a


                                                45
 Designated Account (DA) to be opened in US$ convertible into Pak rupees on presentation of
 withdrawal cheques. In general, the IDA and MDTF funds have the same arrangements
 regarding Financial Management.

 Strengths and Weaknesses

 5.      The Operations Manual prepared by the Government under the auspices of PaRRSA will
 provide policies and guidelines that would constitute the strategic and operational management
 of the Program as well as enshrine transparency and accountability of resources provided for the
 rehabilitation exercise. The detailed payment mechanism for cash grants will also be contained in
 this operations manual. Financial management and auditing guidelines being developed for
 PaRRSA will include funds flow control arrangements and procedures to be approved by the
 Auditor General of Pakistan/ Controller General of Accounts/Ministry of Finance. Adequacy of
 the Manual would be determined after review thereof. An operations manual is being developed
 for the emergency project and is expected to be complete before disbursement ­ this has been
 included as a condition for disbursement.

 Risk Analysis

 6.      Country Issues: Budget execution, accounting, financial reporting and internal controls
 need strengthening at the country level. However, these issues do not directly affect the project
 as they would be adequately addressed in the implementation arrangements. Thus inherent
 risk rating is Substantial. Hence, it would be critical to ensure that financial management
 policies and procedures are strictly adhered to.

 7.      Control risk is High because of an entirely new implementation set up and the nature of
 expenditures involving small payments to large number of beneficiaries, added by the weak
 control environment at the implementing agencies level. However, the risk mitigation measures
 in the following table will help reduce control risks.

 Residual risk rating is High.

Risk                             Initial FM    Risk Mitigation                         FM Risk       Condition for
                                 Risk                                                  After         Disbursement
                                                                                       Mitigation

Inherent Risk
Country level                    Substantial   Following financial management          Moderate      NA
                                               policies and procedures
Control Risk
Budgeting:                       High          Regular monitoring through              Substantial   No
New setup at Entity/PIA level.                 automated system by qualified
                                               accounting staff at entity/PIAs level
Accounting                       High          1. Finalization of operations manual    Substantial   Yes
Entire new setup with large                    for the Project before disbursement
number of small payments and                   2. Computerization of accounting                      No
also security issues restricting               system within six months of
free movement of the staff to                  effectiveness
supervise and audit.



                                                        46
Internal control:               High         1. Key positions 15 in accounting and   Substantial   Yes
Lack of qualified and trained                internal audit to be filled up before
accounting and internal audit                disbursement in to the DAs and
staff. News systems and                      internal audit to perform all the
procedures that have not been                internal audit functions.
tested.                                      2. Quarterly special purpose audit
                                             by a firm of chartered accountants.

Funds flow:                     High         Timely release of funds and             Substantial
Leakages of funds, particularly              reporting of expenditures in respect
in disbursement of livelihood                thereof, and independent
grants.                                      verification of payments to
                                             beneficiaries.
Financial reporting              High        Project accounting would be manual      Substantial
Reporting project expenditures               to start with but computerized later
may be constrained until the                 on.
automated accounting system is
functional and accounting staff
is in place and fully trained.
Auditing                         Moderate    TORs and time line for external         Low
Possible delay in submission of              audit will be agreed to ensure timely
acceptable audited financial                 submission of acceptable audited
statements                                   financial statements
Detection Risk                   High        Adequate financial controls and         Substantial
Continued restricted and limited             alternate supervision arrangements
movement in the project areas to             or less restriction on movement of
review activities.                           Bank staff for this project.
Residual FM Risk Rating          High                                                Substantial

 Staffing

 8.      As far as the project is concerned, a Finance Manager to be hired under the project would
 look after accounting and financial reporting for both KP and FATA. He would be supported in
 KP by an Accountant and three Assistant Accountants. There would be one Accountant and two
 Assistant Accountants for FATA who would be part of the Regional Coordinator FATA's office.
 They would provide information to the Finance Manager, PaRRSA to facilitate financial
 reporting. The position of Finance Manager, three positions for FATA and three Assistant
 Accountants' positions in KP are provided in the project budget for Component 3, which takes
 care of capacity building and implementation support. TORs of staff would be shared with the
 Bank. AGP's office would be requested to provide internal auditors on deputation. These staff
 will be required to be on board before the first disbursement.

 Accounting Policies and Procedures

 9.     Separate books of account would be maintained for funds received from IDA and MDTF
 through two segregated Designated Accounts (DAs).



 15
  Key positions include Manager Finance, 3 Assistant Accountants in KP, 1 Accountant and 2 Assistant
 Accountants in FATA, as well as an Internal Audit Officer and a Sr. Auditor.


                                                       47
10.     PaRRSA shall comply with the IPSAS Cash Basis of Financial Reporting for its year-end
financial statements of the Entity, and shall also provide by way of notes to the accounts material
financial commitments at each year end. The notes would equally include a summary of
expenditures pertaining to each of the affected districts in the Province and agencies in FATA on
a segmental basis and consolidated basis at the level of PaRRSA and according to the core
components of the recovery program. Other specific operative procedures relevant for the project
will be defined in the financial management procedures prepared by the AGP/CGA/MoF.

11.     The finalization of the operations manual, which is under preparation for the emergency
project, is a condition for disbursement of the first two components.

12.    A process for reconciliation of various cash grants under the project, with the payment
agencies (banks, etc) would be developed in the Operations Manual.


Information System:

13.     PaRRSA shall implement at a later stage a Computerized Financial Management System,
using the existing SAP/R3; appropriately configured with the support of PIFRA. This system
shall serve as a consolidation bench for the integrated MIS of the entire program and shall have
the capability to produce project IUFRs and financial statements. Installation of this system will
be carried out at PaRRSA and PIAs without delay, with the assistance of PIFRA. For interim
arrangements, as described in para 9, the funds received through two segregated DAs for both
IDA and MDTF will be maintained in separate books of account. A process for reconciliation of
various cash grants under the project, with the payment agencies (banks, etc.) will be developed
in the Operations Manual.

Fund Flow Arrangements:

14.     A segregated DA each would be opened by PaRRSA in which the funds would be
received from IDA and MDTF to be used for financing of ERP expenditures only. These
accounts would be jointly operated by two senior officials of PaRRSA. The DAs shall be opened
by PaRRSA following the Government procedures laid down by the Finance Division,
Government of Pakistan relating to the maintenance and operation of revolving fund accounts of
IDA/IBRD/ADB credits and loans. The MDTF funds would be used first for safety net support
grants (Component 1) and after full utilization, IDA funds would be used for both Component 1
and 2.

15.    Withdrawals for the IDA Credit would be `Report ­ Based' (Interim Financial Reports),
which will allow for adequate funds to be at PaRRSA's disposal based on its cash forecast for
two calendar quarters in advance. The quarterly IFRs shall be provided within 45 days of end of
each quarter. The format of IFRs shall be agreed during the negotiations of the Project. In
general, the same arrangements apply for MDTF.

16.   The incremental operating costs for capacity building of any field office shall be released
by PaRRSA from the DA as an advance against three months estimated expenditures to be



                                                48
reported back to PaRRSA on a monthly basis. Alternatively, the field office may spend the
eligible expenditures from its own resources and seek reimbursement from PaRRSA by
providing supporting vouchers for, inter alia, audit purposes. Before release of
funds/reimbursement of expenditures to field offices, PaRRSA shall ensure that adequate
accounting staff and internal controls are in place at the respective field offices.

17.    To sponsor project operational costs incurred by FATA, an imprest account equivalent of
three months' forecast would be created in FATA Secretariat to meet those expenditures for
component 3 that are in accordance with the program design. The imprest would be managed by
the Regional Coordinator who will render account and provide bank statement to PaRRSA on a
monthly basis. The replenishment of imprest will be made on the reconciliation of the advance.

Budgeting:

18.    Budget will be prepared by PaRRSA after getting inputs from all the field offices.
Finance Section will compile the budget before approval by the competent authorities including
the Steering Committee and do the regular monitoring of releases and uses of funds. PaRRSA
would advise budget preparation and monitoring system.

Internal control including monitoring:

19.      The implementation agency for this project will be PaRRSA with responsibility of overall
coordination, management and accountability of the operation. These functions will be
performed by setting up a Project Implementation Unit with essential staff for program
management and fiduciary controls. PaRRSA is overall guided by a PSC, headed by Chief
Secretary, GoKP. The PSC's responsibilities, among others, include (i) policy oversight, (ii)
approval of overall program designs and budgets; and (iii) performance assessment of the
institution. The PSC is composed of the Provincial Chief Secretary (chair), Additional Chief
Secretary Development KP, Additional Chief Secretary FATA, Additional Chief Secretary
Home, Secretary Finance, Secretary Works and Services, Administrative Secretaries
(Concerned), Inspector General of Police/PPO, Commissioner concerned, other co-opted
Member(s), and the Director General PARRSA who also serve as the Committee's Secretary.

20.     The Project Implementing Entity would also cause PaRRSA to select and engage, by no
later than [three (3) months after the Effective Date], the services of an independent firm of
chartered accountants, acceptable to the Association, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
beneficiaries under the Safety Net Support Grants, and the Conditional Cash Transfers. The
Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that PaRRSA carries out the said special purpose audits
on a quarterly basis and: (a) furnishes the Recipient and the Association the audit reports no later
than four (4) weeks as of the end of the respective audited month; and (b) makes each such audit
report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Association.

21.     PaRRSA's implementation structure is aligned with the existing devolved setup in
KP and Political Agencies in FATA. The overall responsibilities will broadly be divided among
the different levels of government in order to accommodate centralized planning, designing, and
approvals at the provincial level whereas the execution at the district/agency levels.



                                                49
22.     Adequate governance and monitoring including social accountability mechanisms,
beneficiary audit and complaint redressal system would be in place for disbursement of cash
grants as mentioned under implementation arrangements.


Funds Flow:

23.     Below is a schematic flowchart of the funds flow aspects of the program as a whole.

                                      The World Bank



                                    [Ministry of Finance]
                                    State Bank of Pakistan



                                           PaRRSA
                                       Designated A/C-
                                       National Bank of
                                           Pakistan




                                  Cash Grants to beneficiaries
      FATA Reconstruction         through Commercial Banks             DRU Imprest
      Agency Imprest Account                                           Account for
      for Capacity Building                                          Capacity Building
      Building/TA                                                         Others




Internal audit:

24.     Under the project, an Internal Audit Officer and Senior Auditors would be inducted
­ this would be a condition of disbursement. The Internal Audit Team shall audit all PaRRSA
funds and would directly report the findings to the Provincial Steering Committee with a copy to
Head of PaRRSA. The Internal Audit Team will also carry out post audit of all project activities
carried out at the FATA and district/agency levels for Component 3. Internal audit reports would
be issued within fifteen days of the completion of the audit of the project activities, on a regular
basis.

Financial reporting:

25.     PaRRSA has not developed any financial reporting system yet. This would be addressed
in the operations manual that is being prepared. Separate quarterly financial reports (attached) in
respect of IDA and MDTF funds would be provided to the Bank within forty five days of the end
of each quarter for disbursement and monitoring purposes.



                                                   50
External audit:

26.     Under the existing arrangements, PaRRSA's annual audit would be conducted by a firm
of chartered accountants to be appointed by the Director General through a competitive process.
For better governance, it is suggested that auditors be appointed by a committee rather than a
single individual. PaRRSA's financial year ends on December 31 and it would be required to
provide acceptable audited financial statements in respect of the entity and the project to the
Bank within six months of the close of each financial year. PaRRSA's management will also
provide assertion that the ERP funds have been used for intended purposes. TORs for project
audit would be cleared with the Bank. These would include review of fund flow to track unused
cash balances.

27.     In addition to audit by a firm of chartered accountants, the Auditor General of Pakistan
would conduct audit as mandated by the Constitution. The Audit notes, advance paras, if any,
will be processed for compliance and other remedial action by the Finance Wing of PaRRSA.

28.     The unresolved external audit issues in respect of the entity would be reported in the
Annual Audit Report and shall form part of the audit report of the Auditor General to be
presented before the Provincial Public Accounts Committee. As PaRRSA is a recently formed
entity and will implement Bank funded projects for the first time, there is no outstanding audit
report or ineligible expenditures under Bank projects being implemented by PaRRSA.

29.     The following audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of financial year:



Audit Report                                      Due Date
Entity                                            June 30
Project                                           June 30

Supervision plan:

30.     The proposed project has a "High" financial management risk rating. Consistent with
the risk based approach to supervision, the project will need intensive supervision from an FM
perspective. A substantial portion of the supervision activities would consist of desk reviews of
internal and external audit reports and follow-up on audit paras/recommendations in respect
thereof, quarterly financial reports, and fixed assets physical verifications reports supplemented
by dialogue with the project staff. Other financial management supervision tools such as
expenditure reviews, site visits, etc., would be used in an effort to periodically monitor the
adequacy of financial management systems.




                                               51
Disbursement arrangements:

31.     The project shall be required to comply with financial reporting required of the Bank in
all respects and shall ensure that all supporting documents related to the transactions financed by
IDA and MDTF are appropriately maintained. The Project will benefit from the simplified
expenditure eligibility mechanisms agreed under the Country Financing Parameters for Pakistan
whereby 100% financing of expenditures, including taxes, against applicable categories shall
apply.

32.     In case of IDA, there are nine projects in Pakistan which have not refunded or provided
documentation on the use of Designated Accounts/Special Accounts after the deadline of two
months after the end of the "grace period" (that is the "lapsed loan" date, normally six months
after the Closing Date). Under the Bank policy (OP12.00, disbursement para 12), failure to
refund unused Designated Accounts/Special Accounts balances results in the Bank not
permitting the use of Designated Accounts under new loans/credits. In view of the urgency of
timely response to crises in Pakistan, a waiver of the requirements of OP12.00 is being sought in
order to allow for continued use of DAs for loans and credits to Pakistan.

Allocation of Credit Proceeds:

          Category                   Amount of the        Percentage of Expenditures to
                                     Financing (US$)      be Financed (inclusive of
                                                          taxes)
          Safety Net Support 250,000,000                  100%
          Grants;    Conditional
          Cash     Grants;   and
          goods,     consultants'
          services, Incremental
          Operating        Costs,
          Training           and
          Workshops
          TOTAL:                  250,000,000

33.      The incremental operating costs will cover expenditures for salaries of contractual
staff (other than consultants), per diem and allowances, office rental, office supplies, utilities,
conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances, operating and maintenance of office
equipment and vehicles, advertising expenses and normal bank charges, insurance, media
projections, newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, printing and stationary costs in connection
with the management and coordination of Project activities, which expenditures would not have
been incurred absent the Project, but excluding salaries of the Recipient's civil servants.

34.     Retroactive financing: The Project requires retroactive financing to meet eligible
expenditures paid after July 1, 2010 but before signing of the Financing Agreement. The
retroactive financing is allowed up to US$ 500,000 for capacity building and implementation
support subject to the project's following the agreed procedures.




                                                52
Action Plan:

35.   The following actions shall need to be completed by the defined dates.

      Required Action                      Responsible        Target Date
                                           Authority
      1. Adopt the Operations Manual for   PaRRSA             Before start of disbursement
      the project                                             to PaRRSA


      2. Finalize TORs of FM staff.        PaRRSA             Mid December'10
      3. Select and appoint qualified FM   PaRRSA             Before start of disbursement
      and internal audit staff at PaRRSA                      to PaRRSA
      4. Agree ToRs for external project   PaRRSA              March'11
      auditors




                                             53
                                   Annex 7: Procurement Arrangements
           PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

General

1.     This operation will support the emergency recovery efforts of the Government of KP and
FATA focusing on provision of safety net support grants for militancy crisis affected households,
and developing mechanisms to support human capital development of the poorest and most
vulnerable populations in the project areas.
2.      Procurement for the proposed program would be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004 amended October
2006 and May 2010; Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated May 2004, amended October 2006 and May2010, and the provisions stipulated
in the Development Finance Agreement. The broad description of various items under different
expenditure categories to be financed under the program is provided below. For each contract to
be financed under the Credit/Grant16, the Government and IDA will agree upon the procurement
method, the consultant selection method, and the need for prequalification. A detailed
procurement plan for the first twelve months of the program, excluding the cash grants, will be
agreed prior to implementation. The procurement plan will be updated each subsequent six
months. A guidance note on simplified and applicable procedures for all procurement actions
under the program will be prepared.
3.      The procurement of goods and services other than consulting services, to be financed
under the project following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited International
Bidding (LIB) procedures, will use Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Consultants will be
selected based on the Bank/IDA Standard RFP and procurement methods described in the DFA.
Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank will be used for procurement of goods following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures already agreed with IDA.


Procurement of Goods
4.     Procurement of goods consists mainly of printing of forms and procurement of office
equipment. At this stage no ICB procurements are envisaged. Procurement under NCB
procedures will be conducted using Bidding Documents acceptable to the bank.


Cash Grant Activities
5.     Government will provide beneficiaries a cash grant to crisis affected families for their
recovery. The beneficiary will be fully responsible for all procurement action using the proceeds
from the grant.

Selection of Consultants

16
     Grant refers to the fund provided through the MDTF.


                                                           54
6.     Consultancies will include beneficiary/vulnerability assessments, review and revision of
building standards for design of structures to withstand natural disasters, design and construction
supervision contracts, studies on natural resource systems in the affected areas, environmental
safeguards, social safeguards, national parks and wetlands, impact on the land and water
resources, monitoring and evaluation, public awareness programs and risk mitigation studies.
7.     Selection of Consultants will be carried out in accordance with Sections 2 and 3 of the
Consultant's Guidelines.
8.     Shortlists of consultants for assignments estimated to cost less than US$500,000
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of Paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.


A.     Assessment of the Capacity to Implement Procurement under the Program
9.     An overall update of the assessment of procurement capacity in the KP and FATA based
on the on-going procurement performance in the projects under implementation in the two areas
was undertaken by Asif Ali, Procurement Specialist. A summary of the assessment is provided
below.
10.     Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province is the leading province in terms of procurement
regulatory framework. Under the KP Procurement of Goods, Works, Services and Consulting
Services Ordinance 2002 (later an act of parliament), rules for procurement of consulting
services were notified in November 2002, and rules for procurement of goods, works and (non-
consultancy) services were notified in December 2003. These rules however had several
departures from the international best practices. The Bank continued the dialogue under DPC
series to align the provincial rules with the best practice. The rules have been revised to
rationalize the process of enlistment/pre-registration of contractors, disallow post bid
negotiations, adequate dissemination for fair competition, rather than specifying minimum
number of bids received, definition of post qualification process, clarification of two envelope
system, revision of rules for consultancy services to cover procedures for various combinations
of quality and cost based selection, disclosure prior to award. The draft revised law and rules
have been approved by the cabinet and the Governor, and they are placed before the assembly
for consideration. The revised law includes provision of setting up a public procurement
regulatory authority to act as custodian of the rules, and maintain an independent panel of experts
to review procurement complaints as a second tier of the redressal mechanism. Draft SBDs and
RFPs have also been developed, a local training institute has been identified and training
curricula are being developed to set up a sustainable training capacity within the province.
11.      FATA is governed by Federal Government laws and as such, the Public Procurement
Rules of 2004 apply to public procurement. The Rules are widely disseminated and FATA
officials have just recently been through procurement training courses at the PPRA's training
facility at Islamabad.




                                                55
12.    PaRRSA under a Provincial Steering Committee established for the institution, will have
the responsibility for overall policy and planning, standard setting, regulation, coordination as
well as monitoring of the recovery program. Within PaRRSA there will be a dedicated,
professionally staffed coordination unit for the project. The procurement of goods and services
for specific components would be done by the coordination unit in close coordination with the
FATA Secretariat and other relevant stakeholders.


B.      Exposure to IDA Procurement Procedures
13.    Although PaRRSA is a newly formed organization, it has inherited significant expertise
from 2005 earthquake reconstruction projects including the Provincial Earthquake
Reconstruction Rehabilitation Agency (PERRA) and the North West Disaster Management
Agency. Furthermore, various provincial/FATA departments have adequate experience with
IDA projects. These include KP CIP I (Cr.2829­PAK) and II (Cr.3906-PAK) and KP OFWM
(Cr.3516-PAK). Procurement actions envisaged under the proposed program are related mostly
to the implementation support and capacity building component including procurement of
surveys, and limited office equipment and vehicles. PaRRSA will recruit or reallocate staff
within the system to strengthen the procurement capacity of the coordination unit. In addition,
KP government and FATA Secretariat will support district/agency units as needed in
implementation of the agreed procurement plan.


C.     Procurement Plans and Selection Methods
14.    PaRRSA will develop procurement plans that include the agreed procurement methods,
which will provide the basis for all procurement activities under the program. A preliminary
procurement plan for the first six months of the project appears below.
15.    The procurement plan consists of contracts for consulting services, and goods, as
applicable.




                                               56
 Ref.            Contract         Estimated   Procurement       Review        Expected       Expected
 No.            Description       Cost (US$         /          by Bank       Bid/Proposal    Contract
                                   million)     Selection      (Prior or     Submission     Completion
                                                Method           Post)         Deadline        Date
 1.         Office Equipment,     0.10        Shopping        Post          June 30, 2010   December
            Furniture, Supplies                                                             2010

 2.         Vehicles              0.20        Shopping        Post          June 30, 2010   December
                                                                                            2010

 3.         Targeting Survey      0.50        Single Source   Retroactive   June 30, 2010   June 2011
                                                              Financing

 5.         Communication         0.20        Single Source   Prior         June 30, 2010   June 2011
            Program

 6.         MIS Development       0.30        QCBS            Prior         Dec 18, 2010    Mar 2012
            (Targeting & Case
            Management)

 7.         Data Entry &          1.68        SSS             Prior         Dec 18,2010     Feb 2012
            Verification

 8.         Process Evaluation    0.35        QCBS            Prior         Dec 18, 2010    Feb 2012

 9.         Impact Evaluation     0.85        QCBS            Prior         Dec 18,2010     Feb 2013
            Exercise

 10.        Payment Delivery &    7.20        QCBS            Prior         Dec 18,2010     Feb 2013
            Transaction



Methods of Procurement for Goods
16.    The proposed methods for procurement of goods will follow one of following
procedures:
      (a)   International Competitive Bidding [ICB]
      (b)   National Competitive Bidding [NCB]
      (c)   Shopping
      (d)   Direct Contracting


17.    The Government and IDA will agree to comply with the improved procedures for
procurement following NCB as indicated the attachment to this Appendix.


Methods for Selection of Consultants



                                                     57
18.   The selection of consultants will be made on the basis of the following methods
depending on appropriateness in each case.
      (a)   Quality and Cost Based Selection [QCBS]
      (b)   Quality Based Selection [QBS]
      (c)   Selection under a Fixed Budget [FBS]
      (d)   Least Cost Selection [LCS]
      (e)   Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications [CQS]
      (f)   Single Source Selection [SSS]
      (g)   Selection of Individual Consultants as per Section V of the Guidelines

D.          Procurement Supervision and Reporting
19.     In addition to prior-review of contracts by IDA, where required there will be up to two
procurement review missions in each year that would include field visits, and post-review of
procurement actions. Should access to the project area be restricted, third party reviews will be
carried out using consultants. Auditor General of Pakistan will be strengthened to conduct an ex-
post procurement audit of the contracts on a sample basis.
20.         Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
      (a) Prompt reporting of contracts award information by PaRRSA
      (b) Comprehensive quarterly reports indicating:
          (i) Revised costs estimates for individual contracts and total cost; and
          (ii) Revised procurement actions including advertising, bidding and contract award and
          completion time for all contracts.


E.          Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
21.         Thresholds for the various procurements methods are given in the following table.
                                Table P2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods

Expenditure            Contract Value       Procurement Method                Prior Review Requirements
Category               Threshold (US$)

1. Goods               For each contract    ICB                               All
                       estimated to cost:
                       300,000 and above
                                            NCB                               First NCB contract for each
                       Up to 300,000                                          implementing agency, irrespective of
                                                                              value.
                       Below 50,000         Shopping                          First contract under Shopping,
                                                                              thereafter, Post review only
                                            Direct Contracting during the     All
                                            initial period of twelve months
                                            from the Effectiveness of the
                                            credit, with prior agreement
                                            with IDA



                                                    58
2. Cash Grants       All                  Direct by the beneficiary
3. Consultant        For each contract    QCBS [in specific cases,       All
Services             estimated to cost:   method of procurement can be
                     200,000 and above    other than QCBS, which will be
                                          identified in the procurement
                                          plan]
                     Below 200,000        Any other method as per the    First consultancy contract for each
                                          Credit/Grant Agreement         implementing agency, irrespective of
                                                                         value

                     Individual           Single Source Selection        All
                     consultants>50,000   Section V of the Consultants   All
                                          Guidelines

                     Individual           Section V of the Consultants   First consultancy contract for each
                     consultants<50,000   Guidelines                     implementing agency irrespective of
                                                                         value


22.     Prior review requirements will be identified in the procurement plans, which will be
regularly updated for review and agreement with IDA.


F.      Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

23.     The overall risk for procurement is High.


Actions for Improving the Agencies' Procurement Capacities

24.    PaRRSA will acquire the services of a procurement specialist who will be responsible for
carrying out the procurement under the project in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
25.     PaRRSA will prepare and get approved from the Bank, a simplified procurement manual
for the project.
26.     IDA would conduct at least two training programs at the PaRRSA and FATA Secretariat
levels to create an awareness of the IDA procurement guidelines and to enhance the procurement
capability of the implementing agency and the decision-making authorities.


Improvement of Bidding Procedures under National Competitive Bidding

27.    The following improvements in bidding procedures will apply to all procurements of
goods under National Competitive Bidding, in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency
and broad consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
        (a)      Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a
                 wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;



                                                  59
(b)   Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are
      willing to pay the required fee;

(c)   Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any
      kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;

(d)   Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;

(e)   Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;

(f)   Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of
      bids;

(g)   Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official
      estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;

(h)   Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association's prior
      concurrence shall be obtained;

(i)   Bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit prices;

(j)   Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;

(k)   Single bid shall also be considered for award;

(l)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;

(m)   Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any
      other bidders;

(n)   draft NCB contracts shall be reviewed by the Association in accordance with the
      prior review procedures;

(o)   State-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can establish that they
      are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are
      not a dependent agency of the Recipient;

(p)   A firm declared ineligible by the Association, based on a determination by the
      Association that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or
      obstructive practices in competing for or in executing an Association-financed
      contract, shall be ineligible to be awarded an Association-financed contract during
      the period of time determined by the Association.

(q)   The Association shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated
      period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time
      determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
      fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in
      executing, a contract financed by the Association; and



                                       60
(r)   Each contract financed from the proceeds of a Loan shall provide that the
      suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Association, at its
      request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the
      contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by
      the Association. The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor
      or subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice.




                                      61
                 Annex 8: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements
         PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project


Project Implementation Arrangements

1.     The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa through an official notification has established
a `Relief, Reconstruction and Settlement' (R&S) as an administrative department, headed by a
Secretary. The R&S Department is quite similar to the other administrative departments of the
GoKP and in the process of being strengthened. The R&S Department has two specialized
agencies i.e. a) Provincial Disaster Management Authority (PDMA) entrusted with the task of
carrying out relief work post-disaster situation; and b) PaRRSA created in June 2009 with the
mandate of designing, coordinating implementation, and monitoring of early recovery and
reconstruction of post-disaster programs.
2.      The implementation agency for this project will be PaRRSA with responsibility of overall
coordination, management and accountability of the operation. These functions will be
performed by setting up a Project Implementation Unit with essential staff for program
management and fiduciary controls. PaRRSA is overall guided by a PSC, headed by the Chief
Secretary, GoKP. The Provincial Steering Committee's responsibilities, among others, include
(i) policy oversight, (ii) approval of overall program designs and budgets; (iii) periodic
performance assessment; and (iv) ensure that all stakeholders provide timely inputs as per
implementation plans of various programs. The PSC is composed of the Provincial Chief
Secretary (chair), Additional Chief Secretary Development KP, Additional Chief Secretary
FATA, Additional Chief Secretary Home, Secretary Finance, Secretary Works and Services,
Administrative Secretaries (Concerned), Inspector General of Police/PPO, Commissioner
concerned, other co-opted Member(s), and the Director General PARRSA who also serve as the
Committee's Secretary.
3. The main functions of PaRRSA include:
   (a)     Preparation of strategies and development of plans for implementation in the affected
           areas of the province.
   (b)     Plan and coordinate the overall reconstruction, rehabilitation and
           resettlement effort.
   (c)     Provide one-window facilitation to the international and national
           development partners.
   (d)     Supervise and monitor the executing agencies.
   (e)     Establishment of standards and internal controls within and outside the
           organization.
   (f)     Responsible for all the projects proposed under the various support funds
           created by the Friends of Democratic Pakistan and other International
           Partners.
   (g)     Provide the requisite ease, speed, facilitation, coordination and supervision
           to the reconstruction and rehabilitation programs and linkages to all the
           parties involved in and helping the Provincial Government in its endeavor to
           rehabilitate the affected areas.


                                              62
4.      The PaRRSA's implementation structure is aligned with the existing devolved setup in
KP and Political Agencies in FATA. The overall responsibilities will broadly be divided among
the different levels of government in order to accommodate centralized planning, designing, and
approvals at the provincial level whereas the execution at the district/agency levels. The core
implementation principles for this project include: (i) design and execute the cash grants program
that conforms to the needs; (ii) PaRRSA to oversee and monitor the implementation of the
program in accordance with the operations manual; (iii) use simplified approval and efficient
implementation procedures by duly adhering to the fiduciary controls; (iv) coordinate with long-
term capacity building initiatives in reconstruction and hazard risk management; and (v)
establish transparent procedures that should also allow third party monitoring.
5.      To carry out the project tasks, PaRRSA will work closely with the FATA Secretariat,
respective district administrations in KP, respective Political Agent Offices, line departments of
KP and FATA, BISP, NADRA and payment agencies (commercial banks, telecom operators,
etc). The roles and responsibilities for each of these stakeholders are as follows:
   (a) FATA Secretariat: The Additional Chief Secretary of FATA as a member of the
       Provincial Steering Committee of PaRRSA will represent FATA on policy decisions
       pertaining to deciding the cash grants program and ensure administrative support at the
       secretariat and target agency level. Within FATA Secretariat, the Secretary Social
       Welfare as in charge of social protection programs will coordinate with PaRRSA on day
       to day support in accordance with the project implementation plan. The project will
       support hiring of a dedicated Cash Grants Regional Coordinator for FATA along with the
       required administrative staff to lead the implementation of the cash grants in the two
       militancy crisis affected agencies i.e. Mohmand and Bajaur through respective tribal
       administrations. For the purpose of program activities, the Regional Coordinator, FATA
       will report to the Head of Project Implementation Unit at PaRRSA. The counterpart team
       at the FATA Secretariat will assist PaRRSA in developing the project implementation
       plan and provide inputs in the operations manual for the cash grants program. In addition,
       they will mobilize respective political agents to perform the functions of the Component
       Managers as well as the requisite staff from FATA's line departments to complete
       Vulnerability Assessment Survey (VAS), compliance monitoring for the co-
       responsibilities, and grievance redressal as specified in the Operations Manual.

   (b) KP District Administrations/FATA Political Agents: The District Coordination
       Officers (DCOs) in KP and Political Agents (PA) in FATA themselves, or through a
       designated senior level officers, will perform the role of respective District/Agency
       Component Managers to coordinate and supervise the activities by following the program
       operations manual and guidelines. They will mobilize staff from the line departments to
       work at the level of Union Councils (UCs) in KP and equivalent in FATA for the VAS,
       enrolment for conditional cash transfers, and grievance redressal. The district/PA offices
       will:

             i.   Constitute the Targeting and Enrolment Teams as per the composition given
                  in the operations manual at the UC level;



                                               63
         ii.   Identify and maintain the services of requisite Master Trainers (MTs)
               throughout the program cycle for training of Targeting and Enrolment Teams,
               supervision of data collection, quality assurance, and grievance redressal as
               per program guidelines; and
        iii.   Coordinate with line departments (e.g. Education and Health) to ensure
               improvements in supply of education and health services and timely
               submission of compliance monitoring reports to PaRRSA for the
               administration of CCT in accordance with the operations manual and
               guidelines.

(c) Line Departments of KP and FATA will be responsible for providing requisite staff for
    targeting and enrolment process, undertaking supply capacity assessment for the co-
    responsibilities of the program, facilitating improvement of service delivery, and
    submission of compliance monitoring and other reports as specified in respective
    guidelines.

(d) District Data Resource Centers will be established under the supervision of respective
    District/Agency Component Managers, to provide data and real time information to local
    authorities, program beneficiaries, and civil society on the implementation progress of the
    program. Located in the district/agency Headquarters, the DDRCs will provide, among
    others, the following crucial information:

       i. eligibility status of the applicants;
       ii. amount and number of payments delivered to the beneficiaries through the
            payment agencies;
       iii. status of decisions on appeals and grievances filed by the applicants in accordance
            with program rules; and
       iv. vital statistics at the union council level that could help in informing other
            rehabilitation programs.

(e) Union Councils in KP and equivalent structures in FATA: The UC being the lowest
    tier of the government will assume and an extremely important role in administration of
    Cash Grants. Targeting and enrolment teams shall be constituted at UC level for public
    information at the local level, data collection, and where required data verification. On an
    average 1-2 targeting and enrolment teams are proposed per UC, however, the number
    may be changed, keeping in view the expected number of the targeted households. For
    the Vulnerability Assessment survey, each targeting team at the UC level will comprise
    of four members: one event organizer (local councilor in KP and equivalent in FATA),
    two data collectors (school teachers), one verification facilitator (school teacher or
    equivalent government servant in KP and Patwari in FATA; and/or the local notable
    having credible and apolitical repute). The UC administrations and equivalent in FATA
    will be responsible for setting up the targeting centers in specified locations, local level
    public information campaigns, displaying lists of eligible beneficiaries, providing
    secretariat services to the grievance redressal committees, and disseminating the
    outcomes of appeals and grievance cases.




                                            64
(f) BISP will coordinate with PaRRSA on developing a closer interface between VAS and
    poverty scorecard census. To this end, PaRRSA will sign a Memorandum of
    Understanding (MoU) with BISP to clarify responsibilities, timelines and necessary
    resources to be complemented. Among others, the MoU will also outline the mutual
    exchange of data for analysis and to ensure that the poorest households receiving the cash
    grants and where relevant the conditional cash grants under this program, if qualify the
    eligibility criteria of BISP, are subsumed into BISP's regular beneficiaries for safety net
    cash transfers and graduation programs.

(g) NADRA will be responsible for the validation of data collected through the vulnerability
    assessment survey. NADRA will process the data, cross-check them with the CNIC
    database, and provide the lists of eligible households to PaRRSA/payment agency in
    accordance with MIS specifications operations manual, and timelines developed by
    PaRRSA.

(h) Payment Agencies: Competitively selected commercial banks, telecom operators, and
    others will be contracted for transferring the monthly benefit amount to the program
    beneficiaries and provide monthly reconciliation reports in accordance with payment
    guidelines for the program. These agencies will also provide any specific reports as and
    when needed by the program administrators and auditors.




                                            65
66
Project Monitoring Arrangements

6.     Based on both local experience and international best practice, the project will be
governed by a set of well designed control and accountability mechanisms that will provide
program managers, development partners and the public, including beneficiaries, with timely
information on the operational effectiveness of the program.

   (a) Management Information System (MIS): The integrated MIS of the whole program
   will be established building on the system that PaRRSA has already set up for the
   implementation of small scale projects finance by USAID and others. For the cash grants,
   PaRRSA, with the support of NADRA and BISP (using unique NADRA ids to track
   information), will establish a database of the household information collected through the
   VAS and the beneficiary payment actions. It will be important for the MIS to be fully
   integrated with the project monitoring framework to facilitate appropriate progress reporting.

   (b) Operational Audits: One specific challenge will be to monitor the implementation of the
   project and whether the most vulnerable and needy are included as beneficiaries, particularly
   women, women-headed households, the disabled and aged (i.e. coverage and outreach).
   Close interaction with local communities will almost certainly be the most effective route to
   such information. This may be made particularly problematic by the security situation and
   the cultural constraints of the area, but it will be specifically included as an important
   concern of all relevant third party monitoring mechanisms.

   (c) Operational Process Monitoring: Process Monitoring will be commissioned to
   accompany, monitor and provide regular reports on the implementation of the cash grants:
   covering everything, on a sample basis, from master training, field staff training, survey
   implementation, beneficiary payments and grievance procedures. Regular feedback (ideally
   weekly) will enable in-time course corrections to be made, or supplementary resources
   supplied, as required. Economic and Social Assessment will provide information on the
   social and economic effects of the program at the household and community level. It will
   provide qualitative feedback gender, administrative or political issues with specific
   recommendations for action. It will include social and economic aspects such as the intra-
   household distribution of benefits looking, for example, at the impact on women and girl
   children, on child schooling, health or other welfare requirements. It will also attempt to
   investigate the wider impact of the project in the context of the local economy. The
   appropriate firm(s) hired by PaRRSA will work in a purposive sample of villages and it is
   envisaged that the majority of time will be spent interacting with beneficiaries at the village
   level so they will be expected to work only in project areas that are deemed to be safe and
   secure for such interaction.

   (d) Financial and Auditing arrangements: An Operations manual, to be approved by the
   Controller General of Accounts (CGA), will define the policies and guidelines for
   management, financial management and auditing procedures, including funds flow control
   arrangements and procedures. It will enshrine the transparency and accountability of the
   whole exercise. Financial Management is further discussed in Annex 6. PaRRSA will
   appoint the necessary staff and may establish an internal audit unit.



                                               67
(e) Procurement arrangements: Procurement under the Project will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated May 2004 and revised October 1, 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised October 1,
2006; and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. A detailed procurement plan
for the first twelve months of the program will be agreed prior to implementation and
updated each subsequent six months. Further details are provided in Annex 7.

(f) Social Accountability Mechanisms: This will include the publication of beneficiary
lists at the appropriate sites, systematic oversight by local actors, a hot line for complaints
and confidential allegations, and the third party monitoring. These latter will include a
variety of participatory monitoring techniques which will all help make project
implementation transparent and accountable. They will also provide valuable feedback to
program managers, and local and central government officials that will enable improvements
to be made and any particular oversights or bottlenecks to be addressed. The use of
innovative Information Technologies will be explored. Given current perceptions on
corruption in administration of cash grants, it will be important to challenge public
expectations with as transparent and rapid as possible public information sharing. The option
of web-based updates on progress will be investigated, as will mobile phone-based voice
messaging for beneficiary participation. The security situation will be assessed to see
whether the third party monitoring could avail mobile phone-based survey data collection
options, potentially GPS enabled, to enhance quality control and speed up data collection and
analysis.

(g) Public Information Campaign (PIC): This is the first line of the public accountability
and outreach strategy. Lessons from post earthquake cash grants (2006) and more recently
the BISP Test Phase have shown the importance of an effective and focused PIC especially
locally where community concerns need to be allayed and public participation encouraged.
The PIC will be included in the Targeting Teams' training, providing basic communication
materials but also encouraging innovative, locally appropriate interventions to share the
messages and reach the beneficiary population. The PIC goal is to provide full information
on the objectives, rules, approach, and anticipated timetable for the cash grants. To further
promote transparency, the PIC will include a help-line number for direct public interaction
and full details of the options for raising any future grievances.

(h) Payment mechanism: Payments for cash transfers will be made by PaRRSA by
associating a competitively selected commercial bank(s). The Banks will open beneficiary
virtual accounts and PaRRSA will then instruct them to make the monthly payment to the
each beneficiary through their branches and franchises within 2 weeks of receipt of funds
from PaRRSA. The Banks shall provide a monthly reconciliation report and return any
unpaid amount. In special cases, where beneficiary may not be able to travel to the Bank,
he/she may authorize a member of his/her family to open and operate an account on his/her
behalf. Such authorization may only be used under extreme circumstances and should be
attested by a Gazetted officer to ensure maximum transparency and reduce the possibility of
misappropriation.




                                            68
   (i) Spot Checks: An independent re-administration of the targeting survey will be carried
   out on a smaller but statistically relevant sample of households. Sample Spot Checks will
   also be administered on the payments and the grievance procedures, following cases through
   and identifying any shortfalls in process or outcome.

   (j) Appeals and Complaint mechanisms: After local completion of the targeting survey,
   the list of eligible beneficiaries will be prepared and published locally. Options for
   uploading on the web will also be considered for greater transparency and wider
   dissemination. Households that believe they meet the eligibility criteria but have been
   excluded will be encouraged to appeal the decision. Beneficiaries can also make complaints
   about other program features and procedures, including any discrepancies in payments. For
   transparency and ease of use, the appeal and grievance redressal system will operate at the
   local level with preliminary action determined in the UC by a designated `Appeals, Updates
   and Complaints' committee appointed by PaRRSA. Additionally all complaints will be
   processed systematically through the MIS, and follow up actions will be documented. The
   procedures for such appeals are spelled out in detail in the Operations manual and will be
   covered in the field staff training and also included in the PIC. In addition, a free
   helpline system shall be established for complaints and to provide information on the status
   of applications, any payments, appeals or grievances. All helpline calls will be recorded and
   analyzed.

New telecommunication and information technologies will be explored to enhance
monitoring and transparency.

7.     There have been very rapid technical advances in geo-referencing data using, for
example, GPS-enabled mobile phones. A monitoring system that uses `data visualization
software' could rapidly and easily analyze the very large amounts of financial and
implementation data that will be generated over the reconstruction period and display it, either
graphically or geographically, to aid understanding and analysis. When the scale of a disaster is
very large, it is all the more important to have tools that allow those overseeing the
reconstruction effort to detect patterns, potential bottlenecks in implementation and potential
problems very rapidly. This rapid detection will in turn allow problems to be quickly addressed
and thereby enhance confidence in the process.

8.      The data visualization software also allows for the creation of dashboards and web-sites
that could be used to inform the public about the progress of the reconstruction effort. Systems
that promote such transparency are critical in building public confidence and support for the
relief and recovery effort, as utilized in the RISEPAK post-earthquake initiative. RISEPAK was
a web site comprising a searchable database compiled from population statistics, satellites,
geographical systems, relief agencies, workers, and local officials. The database included
village-level statistics on such things as damage suffered and relief received for over 4,000
villages in the affected area.




                                               69
                  Annex 9: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members
        PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

               Name                                   Title                        Unit

Cem Mete                        Senior Economist (co-Task Team Leader)     SASSP

Iftikhar Malik                  Senior Social Protection Specialist (Co-   SASSP
                                Task Team Leader)

Andrea Vermehren                Senior Social Protection Specialist        SASSP

Maria Gracheva                  Senior Operations Officer                  SASHN

Naoko Ohno                      Operations Officer                         SASHN

Tayyeb Masud                    Health Specialist                          SASHN

Umbreen Arif                    Education Specialist                       SASED

Shahnaz Arshad                  Senior Urban Specialist                    SASDU

Raja Rehan Arshad               Lead Operations Officer                    SASDU

Amjad Zafar Khan                Extended-term Consulstant                  SASSP

Farrah Ilyas                    Consultant                                 SASSP

Martin Serrano                  Counsel                                    LEGES

Asif Ali                        Senior Procurement Specialist              SARPS

Hasan Saqib                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM

Riaz Mahmood                    Financial Management Analyst               SARFM

Stefania Rodica Cnobloch        Consultant                                 SASSP

Chau-Ching Shen                 Sr. Financial Officer                      CTRFC

Anwar Bhatti                    Financial Analyst                          SACPK

Peter Lafere                    Social Development Specialist              SASDU

Javaid Afzal                    Senior Environmental Specialist            SASDI

Mohammad Aslam Malik            Team Assistant                             SASSP

Elfreda Vincent                 Program Assistant                          SASSP



                                                 70
                Annex 10: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
       PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project


The proposed project interventions are limited to cash transfers and capacity building, which are
environmentally benign. Thus, an ESSAF framework will not be developed.




                                               71
                         Annex 11: Economic and Financial Analysis
       PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

1.      The social safety net interventions supported by this project aim to reduce the immediate
suffering resulting from the effects of the militancy crisis through the delivery of emergency
social assistance to the poor and vulnerable households; and to provide a foundation for
launching effective provincial social safety net and poverty-exit programs in a manner that
complements and builds on the existing federal programs. A full documentation of the expected
causal effects of the program on poverty and vulnerability is a daunting task even in the best of
circumstances, in part due to the fact that some key effects can only be observed in the long run.
However, the KP/FATA case is even more challenging because of the lack of relevant baseline
data, as well as the ongoing militancy crisis and program administration challenges that are
associated with it. Taking into account these caveats, the economic justification of the planned
safety net interventions outlines the potential benefits of the project without attempting to
quantify many of the effects in this highly uncertain environment. This section illustrates the
differences among the militancy crisis districts, KP in general and Pakistan as a whole; followed
by a discussion of the potential benefits of the project interventions.

Pre 2009 militancy crisis Distribution of Poverty

2.      Even though KP has a slightly smaller poverty headcount than the country at large, the
province has a higher proportion of BISP-eligible households in part because of larger average
household size, high share of children within households and many female headed households.
While a higher proportion of households in KP own agricultural land, the average size of the
agricultural land owned is seven times smaller than the national average. Still, one in five
households receives domestic remittances in KP province versus one-in-ten throughout Pakistan;
at the same time, 15 percent of households receive international remittances in KP versus three
times less throughout Pakistan.

3.     In terms of education, the KP province lags behind the national average (58 percent of
adults completed no formal education versus 48 percent overall). A smaller percentage of
individuals age 10 or more are considered to be employed ­ among these, a larger percentage are
in paid employment status, and a smaller percentage ­ in unpaid family business. About 55
percent of the employed in KP work in Agriculture/Forestry and Public administration/Services
(and the percentages are similar with the national ones). Unlike the national situation, the
manufacture sector in KP is small, but construction and transportation sectors capture a higher
share of employment than the national estimates.

4.      Areas affected by the militancy crisis are poorer than the other parts of KP (Table 10.1):
they have higher poverty rates and BISP-eligible households, higher household size and share of
children, higher percentage of land owners but smaller agricultural plots, smaller percentage of
households receiving domestic remittances but large percentage of households receiving
international remittances. The inhabitants have lower education levels and a smaller percentage
of children are currently enrolled in school. They feature slightly larger employment rates, but a
small percentage of the employed are paid employees and a larger share are owner cultivators or
unpaid family workers.



                                               72
5.      Prior to the crisis, both the per-adult equivalent expenditure (Figure 10.1) and the
distribution of poverty scores (Figure 10.2) in militancy crisis areas were more concentrated
around the poverty line and poverty-score cut-off point adopted for BISP; compared to the
national trends. Also, the distribution of poverty scores has shifted to the left even during a one
year period, from 2007/08 to 2008/09, which may partly be due to the gradually deteriorating
security situation.



Figure 10.1 Distribution of per-adult equivalent expenditures, PSLM 2007-2008
             .0015
             .001
   density
             .0005




                                                 PovLine = 1141.48
             0




                       500                1000                             1500               2000               2500      3000
                                                                     Per-adult equivalent expenditures

                                          Pakistan                             KPK                Militancy crisis areas
                     Source: 2007-2008 PSLM




                                                                                  73
Figure 10.2 Distribution of poverty score
     .04




                                                                                                  .05
                                                                                                  .04
     .03




                                                                                                  .03
    density




                                                                                                density
      .02




                                                                                                  .02
     .01




                              PovScore = 16.17




                                                                                                                          PovScore = 16.17
                                                                                                  .01
     0




                                                                                                  0




              0                                  20                   40                 60               0                                  20                   40                 60
                                                      Poverty score                                                                               Poverty score

                       Pakistan                         KPK            Militancy crisis areas                      Pakistan                         KPK            Militancy crisis areas
              Source: 2007-2008 PSLM                                                                      Source: 2008-2009 PSLM




                                                                                                74
75
76
Implications of a Poverty Scorecard Based Targeting Approach in this Context

6.      The planned implementation of an objective targeting instrument that is consistent with
the poverty scorecard used by BISP will improve the targeting performance of social safety net
programs implemented by the province. In the past, provincial and federal assistance was
provided primarily to the IDPs in crisis situation, with limited coverage of the remaining
population via federal programs. The targeting performance of safety net programs that do not
rely on an objective mechanism to identify the poor has been shown to be weak in Pakistan, with
only 46 percent of total benefit expenditures of Bait-ul-Mal reaching the poorest 40 percent of
the population, while 43 percent of total Zakat expenditures reached the same population
group. 17 In comparison, Figure 3 shows that 78 percent of poverty-scorecard based safety net
transfers will reach the poorest 40 percent of the population.


Figure 10.3 Distribution of Eligible Households at cut-off 16 (corresponding to 17 percent of
population)

                     Distribution of Eligible Households (at 16.0)
                     Across Expenditure Deciles, PSLM 2007-08
          30




                   26.5
          25




                            20.9
             20




                                     17.0
     Percent
      15




                                            13.6

                                                   10.1
          10




                                                          5.9
          5




                                                                 3.0
                                                                        2.1
                                                                               .5     .4
          0




                  Poorest    2        3      4     5      6       7      8     9    Richest
                                 Deciles of consumption per adult equivalent




Source: "The Choice and Validation of the Cut-off score for BISP", World Bank Policy Note, 2010.

Potential Effects of the Project

Better resource allocation, improved pro-poor targeting and increased coverage of poor
households to help them address basic needs

7.     The project activities are expected to increase the complementarities between the
provincial social safety net programs and federal social safety net programs through the use of a
common poverty scorecard database. The reduction of overlaps will result in an increased
coverage of the poor.

8.     The TA component of this project aims to improve the capacity of the provincial
government to collect and analyze basic information for the monitoring and evaluation of safety
net programs. The increased capacity to monitor and evaluate the performance of the existing
17
     Social Protection in Pakistan: Managing Household Risks and Vulnerability. 2007, the World Bank.


                                                                               77
programs will lead to better resource allocation among various programs, as well as timely
improvements in the designs of piloted safety net interventions.

9.      Given the same amount of resources, the new targeting approach will lead to increased
coverage of the poorest households, which in turn will help poor households to address their
most pressing needs. Empirical evidence from the 2010 BISP beneficiary survey data analysis
reveal that poor households in Pakistan spend cash transfers on the most basic and pressing
needs, with over 32 percent of benefits spent on basic food items. About 23 percent are spent on
medical expenditures, while 10 percent is allocated for debt payment and 7 percent spent on
cloths.

Smoothing household consumption/expenditures and supporting human capital investments

10.     An integrated and effective provincial safety net system, which can be scaled up in cases
of crisis, will help protect the poor against adverse income shocks, such as drought, flood,
earthquake and security-related crisis. Recent evidence from Pakistan and elsewhere in South
Asia suggests that the poor are often the hardest hit by a crisis. Given limited physical assets and
human capital, the poor are more likely to follow behavioural strategies to cope with income
shocks. These include pulling children out of school, reducing the quality and quantity of food
consumed, and borrowing with high interest rates, which forces them deeper into poverty.

11.     Conditional cash transfers to poor households linked to their children's primary school
attendance will enable the poorest households to improve their welfare in the long term, by
reducing the opportunity costs of children's enrolment, especially but not solely in a post crisis
situation. The conditional cash transfer programs, when they are closely coordinated with supply
of educational opportunities, emerge as an effective way to reduce poverty in the long term both
because the primary school enrolment rates are low in the region but also because the rates of
returns to schooling remain at a respectable 5 percent for each year of schooling in Pakistan.




                                                78
                           Annex 12: Documents in Project Files
       PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project


1.     Country Partnership Strategy for Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the Period FY 2010-13.
2010. World Bank.

2.    A Proposal for a World Bank Administered Multi Donor Trust Fund for Reconstruction
and Development in Pakistan's North West Frontier Region. 2010. World Bank.

3.    Social Protection in Pakistan: Managing Household Risks and Vulnerability. 2007.
World Bank.

4.     Pakistan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper II. 2009. Finance Division, Government of
Pakistan.

5.   A Social Protection Strategy to Reach the Poor and the Vulnerable. 2007. Planning
Commission, Government of Pakistan.

6.    Program Document for Social Safety Net Development Policy Credit. 2009. World
Bank.

7.    Program Document for Social Safety Net Technical Assistance Project. 2009. World
Bank.

8.     Pakistan Country Gender Assessment. 2005. World Bank.

9.   Pakistan Food Security and Market Assessment in Crisis Affected Areas of NWFP and
FATA. 2010. World Food Program.




                                              79
                                               Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                     PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project

                                                                                                                                                       Difference between
                                                                                                                                                       expected and actual
                                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                                                disbursements
Project ID    FY      Purpose                                          IBRD       IDA          SF          GEF       Cancel.      Undisb.          Orig.           Frm. Rev'd
P096745       2011    Punjab Barrages Improvement II Project           145.60         0.00     0.00         0.00         0.00      145.60               0.00              0.00
P115638       2010    Social Safety Nets DPC                             0.00    200.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          50.06      -158.91                 0.00
P114508       2009    3rd Partnership for Polio Eradication              0.00      74.68       0.00         0.00         0.00          14.70       -18.14                 0.00
P101684       2009    Second Trade and Transport Facilitation            0.00      25.00       0.00         0.00         0.00          24.48           -1.37              0.00
P107300       2009    SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR                             0.00    300.00        0.00         0.00         0.00      113.83              19.44              0.00
                      PROJECT (SEP)
P102608       2009    Punjab Education Sector Project                    0.00    350.00        0.00         0.00         0.00      121.67              11.46              0.00
P105075       2009    PPAF III                                           0.00    250.00        0.00         0.00         0.00      218.16          -36.30                 0.00
P103160       2009    Social Safety Net Technical Assistance             0.00      60.00       0.00         0.00         0.00          33.97       -20.61                 0.00
P095982       2008    Electricity Distribution and Transmission        173.60      83.10       0.00         0.00         0.00      206.60              68.12              0.00
P089378       2008    Baluchistan SSIP                                   0.00      25.00       0.00         0.00         0.00          19.78           10.68              0.00
P084302       2008    Sindh Water Sector Improvement Project             0.00    150.20        0.00         0.00         0.00      141.96              12.37              0.00
P110099       2008    Water Sector Capacity Building Project             0.00      38.00       0.00         0.00         0.00          31.54            3.95              0.00
P090501       2007    Land Records Mgmt & Information                    0.00      45.65       0.00         0.00         0.00          39.89           11.26              0.00
                      Systems
P099110       2006    Pakistan Earthquake ERC                            0.00    400.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          13.75           -3.80              0.00
P076872       2006    PIFRA II                                           0.00      84.00       0.00         0.00         0.00          24.74           22.63              0.00
P083929       2006    Punjab Municipal Services Improvement             50.00         0.00     0.00         0.00         0.00          29.88           29.88             24.54
P094086       2006    Baluchistan Education Support Project              0.00      22.00       0.00         0.00         0.00          12.77            8.73              0.00
P077306       2005    Tax Administration Reform Project                 24.40      78.50       0.00         0.00         0.00          73.60           70.22              0.00
P082977       2004    Second Poverty Alleviation Fund Project            0.00    551.00        0.00         0.00         4.35           0.04      -329.14            -15.46
P078997       2004    Sindh On-Farm Water Management                     0.00    111.14        0.00         0.00         0.00          40.63           -8.81              0.00
                      Project
P010556       2004    HIGHWAYS REHAB                                   215.00    150.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          39.26      -137.29                 3.03
P071454       2003    AJK Community Infrastructure & Services            0.00      50.00       0.00         0.00         1.43           6.85       -27.69                 2.31
                                                              Total:   608.60    3,048.27      0.00         0.00         5.78     1,403.76           -                   14.42
                                                                                                                                                   473.32




                                                                      PAKISTAN
                                                               STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                              Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                               In Millions of US Dollars

                                                                          Committed                                              Disbursed
                                                                         IFC                                                IFC
       FY Approval       Company                         Loan           Equity        Quasi     Partic.     Loan           Equity              Quasi           Partic.
       2005              ABAMCO FUND                     0.00             3.46          0.00        0.00          0.00          3.46            0.00             0.00
       1995              AES Lal Pir                     12.42            9.50          0.00        0.00         12.42          9.50            0.00             0.00
       1996              AES Pak Gen                     9.20             9.50          0.00        5.37          9.20          9.50            0.00             5.37
       1995              Abamco Mgmt                     0.00             0.29          0.00        0.00          0.00          0.29            0.00             0.00




                                                                                 80
1991   BRRIM                             0.00      0.23          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.23        0.00    0.00
1993   Crescent Bahuman                  0.00      0.31          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.31        0.00    0.00
1997   Crescent Bahuman                  0.00      0.20          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.20        0.00    0.00
2001   Crescent Bahuman                  2.72      0.00          2.50     1.50      2.72      0.00        2.40    1.50
2006   Dewan Petroleum                   15.00    12.00          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2004   Dewan SME                         0.00      0.98          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2003   Dewan Salman                      25.00     0.00          5.00     0.00     25.00      0.00        4.00    0.00
1991   Engro Chemical                    0.00      1.95          0.00     0.00      0.00      1.95        0.00    0.00
2006   Engro Chemical                    0.00      0.64          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.64        0.00    0.00
2001   Eni Pakistan                      12.00     0.00          0.00     0.00     12.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
1990   FIIB                              0.00      0.27          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.27        0.00    0.00
1992   FIIB                              0.00      0.40          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.40        0.00    0.00
2004   First UDL                         7.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
       GTFP Metropolita                  2.54      0.00          0.00     0.00      2.08      0.00        0.00    0.00
1996   Gul Ahmed                         8.10      4.10          0.00     5.22      8.10      4.10        0.00    5.22
2006   Habib Bank Li...                  0.00      0.00        50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2003   KCT                               6.46      0.00          1.50     0.00      6.46      0.00        1.50    0.00
1995   Kohinoor                          6.25      6.30          0.00     2.03      6.25      6.30        0.00    2.03
2002   Micro Bank                        0.00      2.43          0.00     0.00      0.00      2.43        0.00    0.00
2004   NBFI Credit                       6.50      0.00          0.00     0.00      6.50      0.00        0.00    0.00
       Orix Finance                      5.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2006   Orix Leasing                      17.00     0.00          0.00     0.00     17.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2005   PICT                              6.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      6.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2006   PICT                              8.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
1983   PPL                               0.00      1.33          0.00     0.00      0.00      1.33        0.00    0.00
2002   PPL                               0.00      5.63          0.00     0.00      0.00      5.63        0.00    0.00
1965   Packages                          0.00      0.05          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.05        0.00    0.00
1987   Packages                          0.00      0.02          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.02        0.00    0.00
1991   Packages                          0.00      0.02          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.02        0.00    0.00
1994   Packages                          0.00      0.01          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.01        0.00    0.00
1995   Packages                          0.00      0.26          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.26        0.00    0.00
2005   Packages                          25.00     5.43          0.00     0.00      0.00      1.47        0.00    0.00
2006   Paktel 2005                       35.00     0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00
2001   Sarah Textiles                    1.12      0.00          0.00     0.00      1.12      0.00        0.00    0.00
2004   TRG Pakistan                      0.00      4.16          0.00     0.00      0.00      4.16        0.00    0.00
2007   TRG Pakistan                      0.00      2.50          0.00     0.00      0.00      2.50        0.00    0.00
2006   Tameer Bank                       0.00      1.01          0.00     0.00      0.00      1.01        0.00    0.00
1996   Uch Power                         29.60     0.00          0.00     0.00     19.68      0.00        0.00    0.00
                      Total portfolio:   239.91   72.98        59.00     14.12    134.53     56.04        7.90   14.12




                                                                   Approvals Pending Commitment
       FY Approval         Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic.
       2004                CSIBL                          0.04            0.00        0.00       0.00
       2006                IHFL II                        0.01            0.00        0.00       0.00
       2004                Dewan SME                      0.00            0.00        0.00       0.00
       2006                JSPE Fund                      0.00            0.02        0.00       0.00
       2006                Habib Bank                     0.00            0.05        0.00       0.00



                                                          81
2006   Paktel 2005                      0.00        0.00   0.00   0.03
2006   Orix SME OLP                     0.02        0.00   0.00   0.00
2006   Tameer Bank                      0.00        0.00   0.00   0.00
2006   Dewan Petroleum                  0.00        0.00   0.00   0.03
            Total pending commitment:        0.07   0.07   0.00   0.06




                                        82
           Annex 14: KP-FATA-ERP Targeting Instrument
PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project




                               83
84
                   Annex 15: Country at a Glance
PAKISTAN: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project




                                85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 38103


                                                                                                      PAKISTAN
                                          KP/FATA EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                              MOTORWAYS                                                        MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                              RAILROADS                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES


                                                                       65°E                                                            70°E
                                                                                                                                                                  TAJIKISTAN                                             75°E


                                                                                                                                                                                                Khujrab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CH I N A


                                               PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ind
                                                                                                                                    FED. CAPITAL                    Chitral                                                  us

                                                                                                                                     TERRITORY
 35°N                                                                                                                                                                         KHYBER                                                 Approximate
                                                                                                                                     ISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                                           PAKHTUNKHWA                                              Line of Control

                                                                                                                                       To                             Saidu
                                                                                                                                      Kabul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kargil
                                                                                                                                                                       Muzaffarabad                                         Srinagar
                                                                                                                                                Torkham           Peshawar                                                             Jammu
                                                                                                                 FEDERALLY
                                                                                                             ADMINISTERED                                 Kahat                                  ISLAMABAD                        and Kashmir
                                                                                                              TRIBAL AREAS                                                    Rawalpindi

                                                             F GHA N I
                                                           A FG HA NI S TA N                                                                  Bannu                                             Wazirabad

                                                                                                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gujrat             Sialkot
                                                                                                                                                                                     elu
                                                                                                                                                                                  Jh                                Gujranwala                      To




                                                                                                                                                                                            ab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mandi




                                                                                                                                                                                         en
                                                                                                                                              D.I. Khan            Pindi                 Ch
                                                                      To
                                                                   Kandahar
                                                                                                                            Zhob
                                                                                                                                                                              Faisalabad                              Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                                             vi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ra


                                                                                                                     Zhob
                                                                                                                                                                  PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sahlwal                 Bhatinda              Ludhiana

 30°N                                                                                         Quetta                                                                                        j                                                     30°N
                                                                                                                                        D.G. Khan                 Multan                tle
                                                                                                                                                                                   Su


  To
Kerman
                                                                                                                                                  s




                                                                                                                                                                    Bahawalpur
                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                                                                Ind




                                   Nok Kundi
                                                                         BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                    Surab
 ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC                 To
                                                                       Basima
                                                                                        Khuzdar       Ratodero
    OF                  Khash

                                                                       Nag
                                                                                                                 Sukkur   Ranipur

   IRAN                                              Panjgur                                  Kokor
                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IN DIA
                                                                             ai
                                                                         shk




                                                          Kwaranokor
                                                                       Ma




                                                                                                            Moro
                              Turbat                                                Bela                                  SINDH                                 To
                                                                                                                                                              Jodhpur



 25°N                                      Pasni                                                                   Hyderabad
                     Gwadar                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25°N

                                                                                   Karachi                  Thatta        Badin
                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                    du
                                                                                                  In




This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World                                                                                                                                                      0         50       100          150 200 Kilometers
Bank. The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any other
information shown on this map do
not imply, on the part of The                                                                                                                                                     0                50              100          150 Miles
World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any
territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.                              65°E                                                                         70°E                                                                                           75°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEPTEMBER 2010
