                                    Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: NCO00002137



                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                             (IDA-48360)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 163.9 MILLION
                      (US$250.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                      FOR A

  KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA AND FATA EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT



                                   June 29, 2012




Human Development Unit
Pakistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective = May 22, 2012)
                          Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees
                               US$1.00 = PKR 91.3

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 1 – June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
BISP     Benazir Income Support Program
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfers
CNIC     Computerized National Identity Card
DNA      Damage and Needs Assessment
FATA     Federally Administered Tribal Areas
GoKP     Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
GoP      Government of Pakistan
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced Persons
KP       Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province
MDTF     Multi Donor Trust Fund
MIS      Management Information System
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
NADRA    National Database and Registration Authority
NDRP     National Disaster Relief Program
NDMA     National Disaster Management Authority
PaRRSA   Provincial Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Settlement Authority
PCNA     Post Crisis Needs Assessment
PDMA     Provincial Disaster Management Authority
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PERRA    Provincial Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority
PIHS     Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PSLM     Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey
UC       Union Council
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR    United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WB       World Bank
WFP      World Food Program
WHO      World Health Organization


                       Vice President:                Isabel M. Guerrero
                     Country Director:                Rachid Benmessaoud
                      Sector Manager:                 Pablo Gottret
                Project Team Leaders:                 Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik
           NCO Team Leaders /Authors:                 Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik
                                   PAKISTAN

          Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA Emergency Recovery Project



                                   CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design ……………………………..1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation …………………………..6
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance…………………………………………….……..7
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance ……………………………………….……..7
  5. Lessons Learned ………………………………………………………………...…..8
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes …….….9
  Annex 2. Supporting Documents …………………………………………………..…10
  Annex 3. Summary of Borrower’s NCO and/or Comments on Draft NCO..……...….14

  MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Pakistan: Khyber
                                                                              Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and
                                                                              Federally Administered
Country:                Pakistan                  Project Name:
                                                                              Tribal Areas (FATA)
                                                                              Emergency Recovery
                                                                              Project
Project ID:             P121394                   L/C/TF Number(s):           IDA-48360
NCO Date:               06/29/2012
                                                                              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                              OF PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 163.90M               Disbursed Amount:           XDR 0.00M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Provincial Relief Rehabilitation and Settlement Authority (PaRRSA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process               Date                Process        Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         9/30/2010      Effectiveness:                NA
Appraisal:              10/06/2010     Closing:                12/31/2014             10/16/2011
Approval:               01/20/2011

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                         Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                             14                   NA
Health                                                               14                   NA
Other social services                                                65                   NA
Public administration- Other social services                          7                   NA


                                                  i
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction               30                 NA
Education for all                                                  15                 NA
Natural disaster management                                         9                 NA
Population and reproductive health                                 15                 NA
Social safety nets                                                 31                 NA

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At NCO                          At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero                  Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:         Rachid Benmessaoud                  Rachid Benmessaoud
Sector Manager:           Pablo Gottret                       Mansoora Rashid
Project Team Leaders:     Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik         Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik
NCO Team
                          Cem Mete and Iftikhar Malik
Leaders/Authors:

F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
                             Moderately                 Moderately
  1     09/21/2011                                                                         0.00
                            Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory




                                                ii
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background

1.      At project appraisal in October 2010, Pakistan was facing an emergency of
historic proportions, caused by ongoing militancy crisis in KP and FATA. In early
2009, the Government of Pakistan (GoP) launched major military operations in Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa Province (KP) and FATA to root out the local pockets of militants.
Starting from the valley of Swat, bordering the tribal areas, the Government’s military
operations gradually moved westward. The offensive led to significant damage to
physical infrastructure and services while creating a large population of internally
displaced persons (IDPs) who lost their homes and livelihoods. Approximately 3 million
people were displaced in KP and FATA in 2009. About 7 percent of displaced families
moved to camps, the rest occupied schools, public buildings and moved in with host
families mostly in Swabi and Mardan districts of KP. The militancy crisis affected not
only the IDPs but also those who stayed behind, some of whom being just as poor and
vulnerable as the IDPs 1 . These security challenges facing Pakistan were further
amplified by the historical floods that took place in the summer of 2010 resulting in
enormous destruction, further large scale internal migration/displacement, and massive
loss of livelihoods.

2.      The Government as well as a variety of international and national
organizations provided relief assistance to meet the immediate needs of the affected
population following each of the successive disasters. In the face of each of the
devastating series of crises that has confronted KP and FATA, the federal and provincial
governments embarked on rapid and ambitious post-militancy crisis relief, recovery and
reconstruction in collaboration with international and national humanitarian agencies.
Donor support was coordinated by the Planning Commission at the Federal Level, and
Provincial Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Settlement Authority (PaRRSA) was set
up, staffed, and resourced to coordinate and implement the relief and recovery initiatives
for KP and FATA. Assistance was provided by a wide range of UN, bilateral and
humanitarian agencies. International partners provided support to the GoKP’s efforts to
deal with the difficult security situation and the recent flood damage. The Government
also launched various assessments for strategic medium to long term support for the
region. Damage Need Assessment (DNA) was completed in 2009 with the Bank and
ADB support covering the areas first affected by the government’s action to combat the
militants2. This militancy crisis DNA estimated the population affected (by the first-
phase military operations) to be 6,494,314; noting that not only poverty was prevalent in
these areas but also other essential daily life amenities like access to gas, electricity and
water were not at par with the rest of the country.



1
  Based on the household survey data analysis reported by ‘Food Security and Market Assessment in
Crisis Affected Areas of KP and FATA’, World Food Program, 2010
2
  Swat, Upper and Lower Dir, Buner, Shangla, Mohmand, and Bajaur.

                                                1
3.      The militancy crisis PCNA identified the provision of unconditional and
conditional cash benefits as a priority area for the social protection sector.
Subsequently, a Post Crisis Needs Assessment (PCNA), supported by the ADB, EC, UN
and the Bank, and issued on October 2010, investigated not only the short term but also
long term social and economic needs of the region. It recommended employment and
asset generating schemes, community mobilization and empowerment, selected social
care services, and conditional cash transfers in the education sector not only as a short-
term measure to keep children in school but also as a long-term peace building initiative.
The PCNA also acknowledged the need for the project instruments to be flexible, due to
continued fighting and possible displacements as well as the high likelihood of further
natural disasters in the region such as landslides, floods, drought and earthquakes.

Sector Background

4.      At the time of the project preparation, poverty in Pakistan was also believed
to be on the rise, more so in KP and FATA, particularly in the rural areas. As per
World Bank’s estimates, poverty rates in Pakistan decreased significantly between
2001/02 and 2007/08, from 34.5% to 17.2%. However, during this period there was
significant volatility as well, with frequent interruptions in poverty reduction.
Furthermore, in parts of KP and FATA, the prevalence of poverty was significantly
higher than the national average, particularly in rural areas due to global increases in the
oil and food prices, challenging law-and-order situation and most recently the floods
disaster. Human capital indicators were also startlingly low in the KP/FATA region. For
example, net primary school enrollment rate was 54% and girls’ net primary school
enrollment rate of 9% was significantly below the national average of 57%.

5.      The global evidence showed that emergency cash transfers to poor and
vulnerable families may not only maintain their present status, but would prevent
significant deterioration of the future development potential of poor families. When
faced with crisis and shock, it was found that households adopt the following strategies:
i) reduction in household net worth (dis-saving) or increase in borrowing, ii) increase
household labor supply, iii) reduction in consumption, and iv) use of assistance3. Poorer
households are less likely to have much household net worth (i.e. assets to sell) and if
they do not have access to assistance, they are found to use the strategies of increasing
labor supply or reducing consumption 4 . In Pakistan, 8 percent of households with
children hit by income shocks took their children out of school, and 10 percent of
households had to put their children to work5. Among the poorest, because their level of
consumption is already low, the consequences of reduced consumption are potentially
devastating. Families first reduce the quality and diversity of food, and then decrease the
frequency of meals and redistribute food towards the principal earner and away from
women and girls. This can result in malnourishment and micronutrient deficiency among


3
  Ref. Social Protection in Pakistan: Managing Household Risks and Vulnerability, World Bank 2007
4
  Ibid.
5
  Modernizing Safety Nets in South Asia: Improving Regional Responses to Chronic and Transient
Poverty, Celine Ferre and Mansoora Rashid, 2010 unpublished.

                                                2
children, pregnant and nursing mothers with devastating effects on their physical and
cognitive development6.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

6.      The Government requested the Bank’s urgent assistance in this emergency
situation. Bank’s consistent support to the DNA, the PCNA, and the administration of
the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) for KP and FATA placed the Bank in a key
position to assist the government in a meaningful way through the proposed operation,
which would provide the basis for further investments by, among others, MDTF for
medium to long term rehabilitation activities. With support from several donors, the
Bank established an MDTF for KP, FATA and militancy crisis affected areas of
Balochistan in September 2010, in response to a request from the GoP and development
partners.

7.      The World Bank was well placed to help Pakistan cope with these challenges
due to its substantial international and regional experience (including Tsunami and
Sri Lanka post-conflict response) in protecting the poor through safety net programs after
natural disasters and post conflict situations. At that time, the Bank had already gained
considerable experience in crisis response in Pakistan. In 2005, it responded quickly to
the post-earthquake crisis, by helping finance the design and delivery of livelihood
support cash grants to the poor and the provision of social care services to the disabled
earth quake affected populations. Also, subsequently, the Bank supported social
protection sector reforms in Pakistan through a Development Policy Credit accompanied
by a Social Safety Net Technical Assistance Project for the Benazir Income Support
Program (BISP) with the objective of developing and strengthening a national social
safety net system for the country.

8.     The Emergency Project was to set up a recovery mechanism that would
provide cash grants directly to households affected by the militancy crisis and the
flood crisis. The project design recognized that during the recovery process getting cash
support to poor and vulnerable groups in a timely manner would improve their welfare,
and that such assistance would be a prominent sign of the government’s presence and
support in a time of acute need.

9.       The project was strategically designed to provide short term relief in the
aftermath of the devastating militancy crisis in Pakistan. The project was to support the
early recovery phase (6-24 months) focusing on recovering livelihoods by promoting
self-reliance and rebuilding livelihoods through cash transfers to households and re-
establishing essential services such as health, education, water/sanitation, and primary
infrastructure (road repair, transport, communication).




6
 Schlichting, D. “Risks, vulnerabilities and coping mechanisms of the poor: an overview of NWFP?
Mimeo, 2005

                                                3
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

10.     The development objective of the project was to support the Government of
Pakistan, and specifically the KP province and FATA, in their recovery efforts through
(a) providing safety net support grants to poor and vulnerable households affected by the
militancy crisis in the target areas; (b) providing conditional cash transfers (CCTs) for
human development to poor and vulnerable households in militancy affected areas; and
(c) strengthening necessary capacities and systems for post-disaster safety nets.

11.    The following indicators were to be used to assess project performance, including
a mix of quantitative and qualitative indicators.

      (a) At least 250,000 households in the project have benefitted from either Safety Net
      Support Grants and/or the Conditional Cash Transfers by project closing date;
      (b) At least 70% of beneficiary households are in bottom 2 quintiles of the household
      (HH) consumption distribution;
      (c) At least 50% of households signed up for education CCT show increase in
      primary school enrolment; and
      (d) Institutional arrangements along with a Management Information System are in
      place to coordinate post-disaster safety nets in at least 5 districts of KP and 2 tribal
      areas of FATA.

1.3 Original Project Components

12.     The project was prepared as Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) under
OP/BP8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies. The project was adapted to the
emergency's particular circumstances and took into account the Bank’s assistance
strategy for the country. The Bank’s lending program was also adjusted to accommodate
the operation, within the country’s general lending allocation, taking credit risk and IDA
lending policies into account.

13.      The project consisted of three components as follows:

Component 1: Safety Net Support Grants to poor and vulnerable households
affected by militancy crisis (total costs US$180 million). This component was to help
mitigate the adverse poverty impact of conflict by providing targeted safety net support
grants to the poorest and vulnerable households that have been affected by the militancy
crisis in KP and FATA of Pakistan. The cash grants were to assist the households to re-
establish themselves and prepare for the post crisis long term rehabilitation program
through covering basic consumption and any other short term basic needs. These
monthly cash transfers were to be provided for the duration of six months to each eligible
household selected through an objective targeting mechanism which combines proxies
for poverty (household assets and household characteristics such as the schooling
attainment of the head of the household) and vulnerability (such as displacement status
and losses directly linked to crisis). The component was to be financed by the IDA


                                               4
Credit in the amount of US$145 million and by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF)
grant of US$35 million.

Component 2: Conditional Cash Transfers for Human Development (total costs
US$85 million). These cash grants were to be used to encourage behaviors that promote
human development, by requiring the registered households to comply with pre-
established co-responsibilities such as sending their children to primary school (where
such services are accessible) to ensure continuity of cash assistance. The target group was
to be the poor and vulnerable households who qualify under the CCT criteria in the target
areas. The allocation under this component was to also fund CCT specific
implementation support (the amount to be determined after the finalization of the design
of CCTs), such as the program enrollment, compliance monitoring, and provision of
advisory services to the beneficiaries.

Component 3: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (total costs US$20
million). This component was to finance necessary capacity building and implementation
support to the project implementation agency i.e., PaRRSA to ensure the successful
implementation of the project. This included financing of technical assistance, training,
equipment and software, as well as incremental operating costs. This component was
also to provide for supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities, including third party
inspections and validations such as Process Evaluations and Spot Checks, as well as ex-
post beneficiary surveys. Selected third party inspection activities were to be financed
directly from the Bank’s supervision budget of the project.

1.4 Costs and Funding

14.     The project was to be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR163.9 million (US$250
million equivalent) and co-financing in the amount of US$35 million by the MDTF, for
Component 1. The allocation for Component 1 was US$180 million (US$145 million
from IDA and US$35 million from MDTF) of which, based on poverty and vulnerability
analysis of militancy crisis affected areas, it was expected that US$142 million was to be
disbursed to the targeted households for safety net support grants (US$113 million to KP
and US$39 million to FATA). The ratio for this funding distribution between KP and
FATA (4:1) was calculated on the basis of total population and percentage of households
likely to qualify for these cash grants in KP and FATA, respectively. The distribution of
the project budget for Component 2 and 3 also followed the same 4:1 ratio between KP
and FATA. Accordingly, of the US$85 million allocated to Component 2, KP was to
receive US$68 million and FATA was to receive US$17 million. Component 3 (US$20
million) costs were split between KP (US$16 million) and FATA (US$4.0 million). In
sum, of the total US$285 million, the overall allocation to KP was US$227.4 million
while US$57.6 million was allocated to FATA.

1.5 Project Preparation and Design

15.   The project was prepared at the request of the KP Government and FATA
Administration both of which provided extensive inputs into the design and
implementation arrangements of the project aimed to provide relief to the poor and
                                             5
vulnerable households in the region by building on the existing safety net systems. The
project concept was strongly embedded in the Post Crisis Needs Assessment (PCNA),
where social protection was one of the priority areas of intervention. The PCNA
identified, among others, poverty, vulnerability and inequity as key drivers of crisis and
recommended provision of cash transfers to the poor and vulnerable families.

16.    The project was first appraised and negotiated in October 2010 on the basis of a
design that included cash transfers to flood-affected populations in both regions. One
month later, following a request by the Government of Pakistan, the project design was
adjusted to concentrate on conflict-affected families only, and the project was
renegotiated in November 2010 accordingly. The project documents were submitted to
the Board of the World Bank for approval with the written consent of both the federal and
provincial governments. It was approved by the Bank’s Board on January 20, 2011.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

17.     Following Board approval, the project experienced delays in getting the legal
agreement signed and making the project effective. At the time, a number of other
approved Bank projects experienced similar delays in effectiveness, due to Government
of Pakistan’s internal processing (in particular a coordination issue between the economic
and legal arms of the Government). However, in this particular case, the Government of
KP also requested a major restructuring of the project, the idea for which had apparently
originated from an Appex Committee, which was formed by the Governor of KP, Chief
Minister, and Peshawar Corps Commander (see Annex 2 for May 4, 2011 Appex
Committee communication on this topic to the EAD). The proposal for restructuring
requested that project funds go to a new infrastructure sector component, without
specifying the amount of funds to be allocated for this purpose. This idea had previously
been proposed during project preparation but it was mutually agreed with the Bank by
both regions that the design of the project would be focused on providing safety net
support to the affected populations. Therefore, the Bank, in its response to the KP
Government, dated May 31, 2011, highlighted that the project was prepared at the request
of the KP Government with full collaboration on the design by the implementing agency
PaRRSA. It also referred to the renegotiation of the project following the request of the
Government of Pakistan to concentrate on conflict affected families only. Finally, the
Bank’s response pointed out that (i) the proposed restructuring would not fall under the
existing scope and implementation arrangements of the project; (ii) preparation of a new
project would result in less favorable IDA terms that would become effective on July 1,
2011; (iii) the proposed restructuring would entail cancellation of the US$35 million
MDTF grant as well; (iv) delays or cancellation of the project would jeopardize potential
spin-offs that would build on the poverty database platform to be built by the project; and
(v) repeated changes-of-direction by the KP Government and FATA administration after
project approval could reduce trust and confidence of international partners that
participated in the PCNA process.

18.     The Bank team held a series of consultative meetings with the civilian authorities
at the Federal and Provincial levels about the proposed restructuring. These authorities
did make an attempt facilitate communication with the Appex Committee, but the Bank

                                            6
team did not have direct access to the Appex Committee, which requested the project
restructuring to include the infrastructure sector.

19.     The Bank’s response to the Government of Pakistan regarding the proposed
restructuring was discussed during an Appex Committee meeting on August 1, 2011.
The Economic Affairs Division’s letter to the Bank (dated October 13, 2011)
communicated the request of the Appex Committee to cancel the project in its current
form. In turn, on November 21, 2011 the Bank informed the Government that the project
is cancelled, effective October 16, 2011, and that the cancelled amount will be reallocated
to other IDA and MDTF priorities.

20.     The causes for the cancellation soon after the Board approval of the project are
due to a combination of factors including lack of coordination as well as communication
challenges between the federal and provincial governments, between the implementing
(provincial) agency and provincial government, and between the army and civilian
government officials. The potential availability of other grant funding to the Government
of KP and FATA from other bilateral aid agencies (information about which was not
clear at the time of appraisal) may also have contributed to the Provincial Government’s
willingness to insist on significant changes soon after the approval of the project by the
Bank’s Board, at the cost of cancellation of planned activities, including the highly
regrettable cancellation of grant funding from the MDTF donors.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

21.     The project was rapidly prepared in response to a request from the Government,
complying with all Bank procedures. The Bank team worked very closely with the
counterpart team at PaRRSA, the agency nominated by the KP Government to implement
the project. The project concept was based on the best available evidence from the DNA
and the PCNA and the Bank remained flexible during the two project negotiations in
terms of project design in order to best support the Government in its efforts to meet their
pressing challenges. The Bank team made very serious efforts to ensure that the project
was presented to the Board within the extremely tight timeframe. Despite the time
pressure, the Bank was able to bring the best international knowledge and experience to
ensure that project design was appropriate and reflected the latest lessons from
emergency operations. Lastly, the Bank made efforts to clearly outline its position to the
Government regarding the proposed restructuring. However, the Bank worked with the
assumption that Province representatives that participated in project preparation and
negotiations had the consent of all key decision makers in the province, which turned out
to be inaccurate. On the basis of the above assessment, the Bank’s performance is rated
as Moderately Satisfactory.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory


                                             7
22.     The implementing agency, PaRRSA, had developed detailed operations manuals
and prepared all major procurement packages under the project. Memorandum of
Understandings were prepared and signed with various Government Agencies, including
the Benazir Income Support Program, to enable data sharing for targeting the
beneficiaries. Similarly, provincial education department representatives were brought
on board to ensure their support for the conditional cash transfers component of the
project. There has also been considerable progress on staffing in expectation of imminent
project effectiveness. The performance of the implementing agency was, therefore,
satisfactory.

23.     The coordination between the Federal Government and KP Government on this
project was however challenged by the Apex Committee’s request to change the project
design, which came very late in the process, after the negotiations and the Board’s
approval.

24.     On balance, therefore, the overall rating is unsatisfactory because while
significant efforts were made to design and implement the project by the implementing
agency, the lack of sufficient and timely coordination and communication with higher
level decision makers resulted in the eventual cancellation of the project, an outcome
which is truly unfortunate given the vast development needs in the country following the
flood and militancy crises.

5. Lessons Learned

25.      Consultations during the project preparation process need to be all-encompassing,
i.e. the Government and the Bank would benefit from direct discussions with all potential
stakeholders, including the military in conflict areas. This would ensure a greater degree
of transparency and a broad based buy-in for the proposed operation. In this case, even
though a post-crisis needs assessment was prepared and endorsed by the Government and
was fully consistent with the project design, clearly the process was not sufficient to
bring all stakeholders on board.

26.     When engaging with international organizations such as the Bank, the
Government needs to ensure that its expressed official interests fully reflect the combined
interests and decisions of all stakeholders to avoid confusion and potential disruption in
preparation and implementation. Specifically, the Government may want to ensure that
all involved stakeholders are invited to project negotiations and sign the minutes of
negotiations to denote their full agreement prior to the presentation of the project to the
Board of Directors of the World Bank.

27.    The combination of IDA and MDTF grant funding sources for the project may
have played a role in the Provincial Government’s reluctance to proceed with
implementation. Designing a smaller project relying solely on MDTF grant might have
been received more positively by key decision makers, who tend to utilize bilateral grant
agreements to support selected human development interventions in the province.



                                            8
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Name                                     Title                        Unit
Lending
Cem Mete                          Senior Economist (co-Task Team          SASSP
                                  Leader)
Iftikhar Malik                    Senior Social Protection Specialist     SASSP
                                  (Co-Task Team Leader)
Andrea Vermehren                  Senior Social Protection Specialist     SASSP

Maria Gracheva                    Senior Operations Officer               SASHN

Naoko Ohno                        Operations Officer                      SASHN

Martin Serrano                    Senior Counsel                          LEGES

Asif Ali                          Senior Procurement Specialist           SARPS

Hasan Saqib                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist     SARFM

Chau-Ching Shen                   Sr. Financial Officer                   CTRFC
Peter Lafere                      Social Development Specialist           SASDU

Javaid Afzal                      Senior Environmental Specialist         SASDI

Mohammad Aslam Malik              Team Assistant                          SASSP

Supervision/NCO
Cem Mete                          Senior Economist (co-Task Team          SASSP
                                  Leader)
Iftikhar Malik                    Senior Social Protection Specialist     SASSP
                                  (Co-Task Team Leader)
Naoko Ohno                        Operations Officer                      SASHN


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending – FY11                                     47.67                      416.2
                               Total:              47.67                      416.2
Supervision/NCO                                     0.00                        0.00
                               Total:               0.00                        0.00




                                                 9
Annex 2. Supporting documents
1. May 18, 2011 letter from the Economic Affairs Division of the Government of Pakistan to the Bank,
requesting the inclusion of the infrastructure sector in the project approved by the Executive Directors of
the IDA on January 1, 2011.




                                                     10
11
2. May 31, 2011 letter from the Bank to the Economic Affairs Division, arguing against a major restructuring
of the recently approved project.




                                                    12
13
Annex 3. Summary of Borrower’s NCO and/or Comments on Draft NCO




                                 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 38103


                                                                                                      PAKISTAN
                                          KP/FATA EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                              MOTORWAYS                                                        MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                              RAILROADS                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES


                                                                       65°E                                                            70°E
                                                                                                                                                                  TAJIKISTAN                                             75°E


                                                                                                                                                                                                Khujrab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CH I N A


                                               PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ind
                                                                                                                                    FED. CAPITAL                    Chitral                                                  us

                                                                                                                                     TERRITORY
 35°N                                                                                                                                                                         KHYBER                                                 Approximate
                                                                                                                                     ISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                                           PAKHTUNKHWA                                              Line of Control

                                                                                                                                       To                             Saidu
                                                                                                                                      Kabul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kargil
                                                                                                                                                                       Muzaffarabad                                         Srinagar
                                                                                                                                                Torkham           Peshawar                                                             Jammu
                                                                                                                 FEDERALLY
                                                                                                             ADMINISTERED                                 Kahat                                  ISLAMABAD                        and Kashmir
                                                                                                              TRIBAL AREAS                                                    Rawalpindi

                                                             FGHA
                                                           A FG HA N I S TA N                                                                 Bannu                                             Wazirabad

                                                                                                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gujrat             Sialkot
                                                                                                                                                                                     elu
                                                                                                                                                                                  Jh                                Gujranwala                      To




                                                                                                                                                                                            ab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mandi




                                                                                                                                                                                         en
                                                                                                                                              D.I. Khan            Pindi                 Ch
                                                                      To
                                                                   Kandahar
                                                                                                                            Zhob
                                                                                                                                                                              Faisalabad                              Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                                             vi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ra


                                                                                                                     Zhob
                                                                                                                                                                  PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sahlwal                 Bhatinda              Ludhiana

 30°N                                                                                         Quetta                                                                                        j                                                     30°N
                                                                                                                                        D.G. Khan                 Multan                tle
                                                                                                                                                                                   Su


  To
Kerman
                                                                                                                                                  s




                                                                                                                                                                    Bahawalpur
                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                                                                Ind




                                   Nok Kundi
                                                                         BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                    Surab
 ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC                 To
                                                                       Basima
                                                                                        Khuzdar       Ratodero
    OF                  Khash

                                                                       Nag
                                                                                                                 Sukkur   Ranipur

   IRAN                                              Panjgur                                  Kokor
                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIA
                                                                             ai
                                                                         shk




                                                          Kwaranokor
                                                                       Ma




                                                                                                            Moro
                              Turbat                                                Bela                                  SINDH                                 To
                                                                                                                                                              Jodhpur



 25°N                                      Pasni                                                                   Hyderabad
                     Gwadar                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25°N

                                                                                   Karachi                  Thatta        Badin
                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                    du
                                                                                                  In




This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World                                                                                                                                                      0         50       100          150 200 Kilometers
Bank. The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any other
information shown on this map do
not imply, on the part of The                                                                                                                                                     0                50              100          150 Miles
World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any
territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.                              65°E                                                                         70°E                                                                                           75°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEPTEMBER 2010
