Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2647-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE
SAMAR ISLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 13, 1979
This document ha a resticted dtbution sd may be and by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bfank athorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             -         Pesos (P) 7.40
P 1.00             -         US$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                  -    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                -    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)      -    0.386 square miles
1 meter (m)                     -    39.37 inches
1 square meter (sq m)           -    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)            -    35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)   -    810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)               -    0.039 inches
1 kllogram (kg)                 X    2.2 pounds
1cavan (paddy)                  -    50 kgs
20 cavans                            1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BWUA    - Barangay Water Users' Association
CCC     -  Cabinet Coordinating Committee
FSDC    -  Farm Systems Development Corporation
IAD     -  Integrated Area Development
MPH     - Ministry of Public Highways
MPW     - Ministry of Public Works
NACIAD  - National Council on Integrated Area Development
cNEDA    - National Economic Development Authority
NIA     - National Irrigation Administration
PJFH    -  Philippines-Japan Friendship Highway
PPDO    -  Project Preparation Development Office
RHU     - Rural Health Unit
SCRS    -  Schistosomiasis Control and Research Service
SIRDPO  -  Samar Integrated Rural Development Project Office
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SAMAR ISLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Pro_ject Summary
Borrower:            Republic of the Philippines
Amount:              $27.0 million
Terms:               The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, with interest at 7.95%.
Project
Description:       The proposed project seeks to promote the accelerated
development of the island of Samar, chosen because of its
poverty, low level of infrastructure and development
potential. It would include road and port rehabilitation,
irrigation construction, provision and improvement of water
supply facilities, schistosomiasis control and consulting
services for a feasibility study of development in Northern
Samar.  The project would:  (a) reduce transporit costs for
farmers and improve road access to markets and lhealth and
education facilities for some 40,500 rural fami:Lies; (b)
improve port facilities for travel, import of food and
construction materials, and export of agricultural
products; (c) provide irrigation facilities which would
benefit some 1,000 farm families and 500 landless laborers'
families through increased production and employment; (d)
provide safe water for about 118,000 rural fami:Lies,
resulting in a reduction in waterborne disease, and (e)
provide chemotherapy for about 41,000 people suffering from
schistosomiasis and lay the groundwork for a wider control
program. No unusual implementation problems are expected
since most of the works are standard and would be carried
out by agencies having considerable experience in similar
works.
This docufnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aL



- ii -
Estimated Cost! /a                                    Local    Foreign    Total
-    ($ million)  ------
Roads                               7.2        8.8       16.0
Port                                0.7        1.1        1.8
Irrigation                          1.1        1.0       2.1
Water supply                        1.3        6.9        8.2
Schistosomiasis control             0.2        0.9        1.1
Catubig Valley study                0.5        0.6        1.1
Engineering, administration
and supervision                   2.6        0.9       3.5
Base cost estimate          13.6      20.2       33.8
Physical contingencies              1.0        1.7        2.7
Expected price increases            4.4        4.1        8.5
Total project cost          19.0      26.0       45.0
/a  Costs do not include taxes or duties as implementing agencies would be
exempt therefrom.
Financing Plan:                         IBRD        Government       Total
--------- ($ million) ---------
Foreign             26.0             -            26.0
Local                1.0           18.0           19.0
Total               27.0           18.0           45.0
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY:        FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
------------- (5 million) ------------
Annual          0.3    4.7    8.0    7.0    4.0    3.0
Cumulative      0.3    5.0   13.0   20.0   24.0   27.0
Rate of Return:     15% on roads, port and irrigation components, representing
67% of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2627-PH dated November 12, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE SAMAR ISLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $27 million
to help finance the Samar Island Rural Development Project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines -
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), will be
distributed in November 1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
/1 Except for paras. 17-21, this section of the report is substantially the
same as that of the President's Report for the Second Small and Medium
Industries Development Project, distributed under R79-137, and approved
by the Executive Directors on June 12, 1979.



pu'blic sector implemantation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio
of publiir investment to GNP raised from 2%. in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
19 6-78. Private investmenlt also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
in'.estiment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
coiisequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect oF the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence
of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of
trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about
5.5% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Governmeiit in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manu-
facturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates.
In due course, it should, however, be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and the efficiency of investment also needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



- 3 -
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rLce,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1977/78. With the compLetion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled, commercial logging have
led to soil erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls
for a major reforestation effort, but this will require substantial
upgrading of Government administrative capabilities in this area,
development of new hill cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult
land tenure problems.
8.         As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of March 1978,
about 60% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 10% had completed all formalities.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Emplo mert e'nd Income Distribution
.1.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year.  Although
the iiuuber of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share cf family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct t-his
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures arLd the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in t:ranspor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues ecquitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of- economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow
of financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending
rates. Further reforms are required to increase the availability of
long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs have been
adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural
areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries. A
deterioration of loan recovery rates was initially experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government has
taken a number of steps to improve collections; continued effort in this
direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the
public finances.



- 6-
External Tradé and Cav ial Flows
17.        n response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
pqra. 3 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
g7owt'i both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt servlce payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
19.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
o-igilial scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.6 billion (5.7% of GNP) in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 5.8% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 22% in 1979 to an
average level of 23% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government will be seeking commitments of official
assistance of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the next meeting of the
Consultative Group for the Philippines, to be held in Washington, D. C. in
December 1979. In view of the tight budget situation and the fact that many
of the projects planned for financing from external sources have low foreign
exchange requirements, some local cost financing, either through increased
cost-sharing arrangements or, alternatively, through non-project lending, is
necessary to meet the Philippines' external financing requirements.



- 7 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
22.        As of September 30, 1979, the Philippines had received 63 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,970.9 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $93.7 million.  The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 13% and its share in total debt service is about 6%.
These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%, respectively, by 1985.
Annex IT contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as
of September 30, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system
to increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain
production and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming produc-
tion. Support has also been provided for integrated rural developmant
projects in low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts
of assistance in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for
future growth of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic
infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect
due to low levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the
Bank's main thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and
private development finance institutions with increasing attention given to
reeting the needs of small and medium industries.
24.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project com-
pletion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are
likely to be in line with appraisal estimates.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Second Small and Medium Industries
Development Project (R79-137) which was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 12, 1979.



- 8 -
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides
for several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through the recently approved loan
and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas,
where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance will also be
provided for integrated rural development projects which will support the
Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income. Sub-
stantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry with consid-
erable attention given to policy reform and to expanding the development of
labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan
Tlanila area. The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to
continue to increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction
of urban water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum
upgrading and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will
continue to provide support for improving the quality of education and for
expanding the Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank
Group will continue to provide support for transportation and power
infrastructure needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share
of Bank lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead
primarily because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a
large part of the power generation program.
26.       This is the first loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for rainfed agriculture, irrigation, watershed
management, livestock/fisheries credit, education, sewerage and urban
development projects are in preparation, and are scheduled for presentation
early in 1980.
PART III - AREA DEVELOPMENT OF SAMAR
Integrated Area Development
27.        In order to promote the accelerated development of previously
neglected or backward rural areas and to reduce the movement of people from
the countryside to the towns, the Government embarked on a program of
Integrated Area Development (IAD) in the early seventies. The IAD concept
involves the close coordination and synchronization of the various government
agencies for the most effective utilization of limited resources leading to
the development of a selected geographical area. Priority for inclusion in
the program is given to low-income areas with potential for rapid development
in more than one sector, and with relatively small incremental investment
requirements to generate large benefits. The most cpmmon project components
include transport development, particularly roads and ports; irrigation, flood
control and drainage; health, education and water supply facilities; and
agricultural support facilities and services.



- 9 -
28.       The Cabinet Coordinating Co=mittee on Integrated Rural Development
Projects (CCC/IRDP) was created in 1973 as the policy-making and governing
body for all rural development projects. In late 1978, the role of the CCC
was taken over by the newly established National Council on Integrated Area
Development (NACTAD).  The Mindoro Rural Development Project, initiated in
1975 with assistanice from the Bank (Ln. 1102-PH), was the first in the
series of projects generated under the IAD program. Others include the
Bicol River Basin Development Program and the Cagayan Integrated Rural
Development Project. Also included in the program, although with a lesser
emphasis on comprehensive area development, is the Rural Infrastructure
Project, covering six provinces in Luzon and the Visayas and started in 1978
with Bank Group assistance (Cr. 790-PH). Samar island was one of the first
areas chosen for inclusion in the CCC's program because of its poverty,
backwardness, high outmigration, low level of infrastructure and considerable
development potential. Work on preparation of a development programt for the
island began in 1974, under the leadership of the Project Planning and
Development Office (PPDO) of the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications. By late 1976, preparatory work had advanced to the point
where the Government formally recognized the existence of a Samar project in
Presidential Decree No. 1048 and created the Samar Integrated Rural
Development Project Office (SIRDPO) to coordinate the planning and
implementation of the project.
The Project Area
29.       Sanar, with an area of about 13,500 sq km, is the third largest
island in the Philippines. The island lies southeast of the Bicol peninsula
in Luzon and northeast of Leyte (see map).  The island is divided administra-
tively into three provinces: Northern Samar, Western Samar and East:ern Samar.
The terrain is rugged with narrow discontinuous coastal plains and restricted
river valleys. The climate in Northern and Eastern Samar is characterized by
a very pronounced wet season between November and January and no dr-y season,
while the climate in Western Samar shows no naximum rainy period and no dry
season. The rainfall is generally adequate for two rice crops in Eastern
Samar, but supplementary irrigation is required in varying degrees in the
other two provinces. The island lies within the typhoon belt and storms are
frequent.
30.       Of the 1.1 million people living in Samar, about 30% are in the
North, 45% in the West and 25% in the East.  Population density in all three
provinces is substantially below the national average, with Eastern Samar the
most sparsely populated. Almost 82% of the population live in rural areas.
Between 1960 and 1970 the annual population growth was a low 1.7%, compared to
a national rate of almost 3%, due to heavy emigration to Luzon, Cebu and
Mindanao.  Per capita incomes are about 84% of the national average in Western
Samar, 71% in Northern Samar and 44% in Eastern Samar. There are e&bout 87,000
farms on the island covering about 357,000 ha.  Coconut farms repretsent 48% of
the farms and 53% of farm area, and range in average size from 3.6 ha in



- 10 -
Western Samar tj 5.2 ha in Northern Samar. Rice farms account for 25% of all
farms and 24% of the farm area and range in average size from 2.6 ha in
Western Sam_ -o 5.2 ha in Northern Samar.  The degree of tenancy on rice
lands in the island is remarkably low, ranging from 16% of the farmers in
Northern Samar to 8% in Eastern Samar. However, the progress of land reform
has been disappointingly slow and by the end of 1977 the Ministry of Agrarian
Reform had only issued about 1,000 land transfer certificates for some 1,500
ha.
31.       Coconuts are by far the most important crop in Samar.  About
170,000 ha are under the crop in the island. Copra production is about 87,000
tons, with a mean yield/ha of bearing trees of about one ton. Yields in
Eastern Samar in terms of copra and nut-bearing trees are slightly lower than
in the other provinces due to the area's greater exposure to typhoons. Rice
is grown on about 82,000 ha with about 40% of the area in Northern Samar and
the balance evenly divided between the other two provinces. The area under
irrigation is negligible. Only about 2,100 ha are irrigated, of which about
1,600 ha are in 30 communal irrigation systems, built by the National
Irrigation Administration but operated by the farmers. All the systems are
small, the level of engineering is rudimentary and the condition of the
systems is poor due to lack of competent operation and maintenance. Standards
of crop husbandry are poor, with superficial land preparation, minimal use of
inputs and no bunding around the fields. Paddy yields average less than 1.0
ton/ha. About 22,000 ha of corn are grown, mostly in Western Samar.
Cultivation standards are poor, little or no fertilizer is used and weed
control is inadequate. Yields are consequently low at about 1.0 ton/ha. In
addition, significant areas of root crops, bananas and abaca are grown. In
all cases, crop performances are low due to poor cultural practices.
32.       The lack of an adequate transportation network represents one of the
most important constraints on modernizing agriculture and exploiting the
relatively rich forestry and mineral resources of the island. The road
network in Samar totals 3,235 km, of which 1,595 km are in Eastern Samar and
the balance is evenly divided between the other two provinces. Of the 710 km
classified as national roads, only 34%, or 245 km, have bituminous or concrete
pavements. The Philippines-Japan Friendship Highway (PJFH), running along the
west coast of the island and connecting Leyte to the port of Allen in the
North, accounts for virtually all the concrete paved national highways. The
remainder are gravel surfaced and frequently impassable during periods of
heavy rain. Most of the provincial roads and virtually all the barangay roads
are either gravel or earth surfaced. With the exception of the PJFH and roads
within some of the larger towns, most of the roads are in a bad state of
repair, due largely to inadequate maintenance. Bridges along the coastal
roads in the North and East are dilapidated, many to the point of being
unusable.  River transport plays an important complementary role, particularly
in Northern Samar. In the northeastern section of the island, water transport
is virtually the only means of transport. Roads are practically nonexistent
and the population is concentrated along the coast and rivers. Movement of



- 11 -
goods and passengers is almost exclusively by pump-boat. There are 56 ports
in Samar island, of which four are classified as national ports anld 52 as
municipal ports. Two of the national ports are classified as ports of entry:
San Jose in Northern Samar and Catbalogan in Western Samar. Therie are three
airports on the island, of which two are classified as secondary and one as a
feeder. Some 18,000 passengers per annum use the facilities.
33.       The health situation in Samar compares unfavorably with national
norms. Leading causes of mortality and morbidity include respiratory
diseases, gastro-intestinal diseases, tuberculosis and schistosomiasis, all
with a high rate of prevalence. This is largely due to the inadequate health
care system which forces the population to rely on traditional practitioners
and folk remedies. The physician-to-population ratios in the three provinces
range from 28% to 46% of the national average and from 7% to 12% of the World
Health Organization recommendations. Health problems are exacerbated by
the lack of safe domestic water supplies and poor environmental and sanitation
practices. Outside the larger centers, people in Samar obtain wal:er for
domestic use from a variety of sources, many of which are contaminated. Some
1,100 wells have been dug in the rural areas, 40% of which are currently
nonfunctional, due to lack of maintenance, faulty construction or decline in
water quality. However, about 330 of the nonoperational wells could be put
back in order with small expenditures on deferred maintenance and spare parts.
In Northern Samar, there are roughly 1,000 members of rural famil:Les per water
supply point, compared to about 500 in Western Samar and 300 in Eastern Samar.
34.       Schistosomiasis is the most important chronic, debilitating public
health problem in Samar, particularly for agricultural workers who are most
at risk and upon whom the island's economy depends. In 1975, the disease
was reported as endemic in 32 municipalities; there were an estimated 97,000
cases in a total exposed population in the affected municipalities of 745,000,
a prevalence rate of 13%.
Development of Samar
35.       The Government's plan for the development of Samar calls for
priority attention to five major sectors: provision of transport
infrastructure; intensification of agricultural services; efficiency in the
management of water resources; improvement of health care delivery; and
provision of essential utilities.
36.       The plan's transportation component envisages the construction and
improvement of about 500 km of secondary roads and 370 km of feeder roads.
Most of the roads would be in Northern and Eastern Samar. The PhJilippines-
Japan Friendship Highway (PJFH), running along the west coast of the island
(234 km), together with the accompanying 72 km of access roads to be built
on the island to maximize the PJFH effectiveness under the Japanese Commodity
Loan, would cater to most of the needs of Western Samar. The upgrading and
rehabilitation of the ports of Catbalogan, San Jose, Guiuan and Dolores are
included in the transportation development proposal.



f.11 e plan's ogricultural intens-fication element proposes a five-year
pi.ogtar of crops and farm impro-rement, covering improved seed production,
g:eater usc of fertilizer and agrochemicals and improved cultural practices in
selecteid pilot areas. The program would be supported by an improved extension
s rvice.  Initial emphasis would be placed on rainfed rice, corn and coconuts
in the municipalities at Catubig, Gandara and Dolores.
33.       The plan's water resources aspect calls for the development of two
national irrigation systems, covering about 7,350 ha, and eight communal
systems of about 2,500 ha. In addition, flood control and drainage provisions
would be made in the Catubig valley in Northern Samar to protect some 45 sq km
of land.
39.       Under the plan, the health care delivery system would be improved by
construction throughout the island of about 60 rural health units and
some 190 barangay health stations. In addition, a schistosomiasis
control campaign would be mounted in the 32 municipalities in which the
disease is endemic.
40.       The public utilities aspects of the plan include the provision of
water, power and telecommunications. The water supply component calls for the
construction of about 2,500 wells and the development of about 100 springs to
serve small villages and hamlets throughout Samar. While the National
Electrification Administration and the National Power Corporation investigate
the hydroelectric potential of the Catubig river, the plan calls for
installation of diesel-powered generators to service Northern and Eastern
Samar. The development plan proposes the establishment of a transmission
network capable of providing both telephone and telegraph services, with the
three provincial capitals of Catarman, Catbalogan and Borongan as transmission
control centers.
Australian Assistance to Samar Development
41.       Under a memorandum of agreement signed on January 29, 1979, the
Governments of Australia and the Philippines defined the scope of Australian
assistance for the development of Samar. The Australian contribution would
amount to the equivalent of $28.0 million, in the form of a grant. Project
implementation is expected to take five years, in two stages.
42.       Stage I of the Australian-assisted project would include the
following components:
(a) Roads. Development of about 180 km of roads in Northern Samar,
of which 160 km of national and provincial roads would be developed
to two-lane cement concrete standard and the remaining feeder roads
to two-lane gravel standard; subject to the outcome of additional
studies, about 240 km of agricultural feeder roads would be con-
structed; assistance would be provided for road maintenance at the
provincial level in Northern Samar through provision of training
equipment and workshop facilities.



- 13 -
(b) Ports. Rehabilitation and expansion of the port of San Jose
in Northern Samar.
(c) Water Supply. Construction of piped water supplies in ithe towns
of Allen, Catarman, Laoang, Catubig and Las Navas.
(d)  Power.  Implementation of an electrical supply and distribution
scheme to transmit power from a diesel generating station at
Wright in Western Samar to Catarman and hence to signifLcant
population centers along the coast of Northern Samar beltween
Allen and Laoang.
(e)  Agriculture.  Assistance to improve agricultural performance through
provision of agricultural development centers, pilot crop and
demonstration farms, extension service aids, equipment, vehicular
support and technical assistance.
Technical assistance would be an important project component, as provision
is made for about 740 man-months of consultants' time, of which about 330 man-
months for engineering services and about 255 for agricultural specialists.
Project Formulation
43.       The development plan for Samar, prepared by the PPDO-SIRtDPO, provi-
ded the main parameters for project formulation. In addition, consideration
was given to the objectives of the Australian-assisted project centered on
Northern Samar, to the Japan-assisted road development along the PJFH in
Western Samar and to the locally financed road developments aimed at connect-
ing the Northern and Eastern Samar road networks and at improving the island's
airfields, as well as providing support to the fishing industry. The proposed
project would be complementary to ongoing development activities in the
island, and would emphasize developments in Eastern Samar, the most isolated
of the three provinces.
44.       Improvement of the transportation infrastructure would be the
largest component in the proposed project, reflecting the poor state of the
facilities in the island and the high priority given by the Government to the
rehabilitation and upgrading of roads and ports as a precondition to other
development activities. The modest irrigation component would be aimed
principally at developing improved methods of operation and maintenance of
the irrigation systems by the farmer beneficiaries. The past failures of
communal irrigation systems in the island have been due to the inability of
the farmers to utilize effectively and maintain the facilities built for them.
The village wells and schistosomiasis control elements would contribute to
raising the standard and quality of life in the small rural communities, where
most of the people of Samar live.



- 14 -
Experience with Past Lending
45.       This would be the fourth Bank Group-assisted rural development
project in the Philippines. The others are the Rural Development Project
(Mindoro) (Ln. 1102-PH), the Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project
(Ln. 1421-PH) and the Rural Infrastructure Project I (Cr. 790-PH).  The
Mindoro Project is similar to the proposed project with components for
communal irrigation, roads and a port, and schistosomiasis control. Progress
on the project was initially disappointing due to slow mobilization and
difficulties with the contractors building the roads; however, the situation
has improved and the rate of implementation of the various components, while
still slow, is steady. The Land Settlement Project also suffered from
mobilization problems, but is now making good physical progress. Work on
the communal irrigation systems, village wells, health centers and ports
included in the Rural Infrastructure Project is proceeding very well, while
progress on the road components is slow. The relatively poor initial progress
of these projects involving a large number of implementing agencies is due to
the more difficult task of coordination and the unfamiliarity of some of the
agencies with Bank requirements and procedures.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The proposed project is designed to address in an integrated fashion
the development problems of one of the poorest areas of the Philippines. It
was appraised in February 1979. Negotiations were held In Washington in
October 1979 with a Philippine delegation led by the His Excellency Eduardo
Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United States. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Philippines - Samar Island Rural Development Project" (No.
2627-PH, dated November 12, 1979) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Principal Project Features
47.       The principal features of the project are summarized below:
(a) improvement of about 230 km of national roads in Eastern Samar;
(b) rehabilitation of the port of Catbalogan in Western Samar;
(c) construction of about 2,000 ha of communal irrigation systems
in Northern and Western Samar;
(d) construction and improvement of about 2,300 wells and 300 springs
in small rural communities throughout the island;



- 15 -
(e) construction of three schistosomiasis control field laboratories
and a mass chemotherapy campaign in the municipalities with high-
est disease prevalence;
(f) provision of consulting services to assist in carrying out a
feasibility study of development of the Catubig valley iLn
Northern Samar; and
(g) procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials for project
implementation, operation and maintenance.
48.       The project's road component would consist of about 200 km of the
Eastern Samar coastal road from Oras in the north to Guiuan in the south, and
about 30 km of the road from Taft on the east coast to the provincial boundary
of Eastern and Western Samar. Improvement would include widening of narrow
portions of roadway and shoulders, correction of substandard horizontal and
vertical alignment, provision of adequate drainage facilities, raiLsing of
flooded portions and gravelling of the pavement. The project would provide
for construction of two-lane reinforced concrete deck girder bridges to
replace existing temporary bridges and unbridged river crossings. Due to
intense storms and frequent typhoons, particular attention would be paid to
drainage and cross drainage structures. The Ministry of Public Highways would
be assisted in supervision of construction by consultants satisfactory to the
Bank, under terms of reference and conditions agreed with the Banlc (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Catbalogan is the principal port in Western Samar and is situated
near the western terminus of the highway connecting the typhoon-prone eastern
coast of the island to the relatively sheltered western coast. Ore of the
two existing piers would be repaired and extended to cater to projected
cargo and passenger requirements. Repairs to the existing bulkhead and
improvement of the port's working area would be carried out. One passenger
shed and two transit sheds would be erected and water and lighting, services
installed.
50.       The project's irrigation component would consist of new communal
irrigation system facilities on 2,000 ha in Northern and Western Samar, of
which 800 ha have been identified and subject to detailed engineering. All
systems would be served by gravity based on run-of-the-river supply. The
proposed level of on-farm facilities would be similar to that being financed
in other Bank Group-assisted projects. Gravel surfaced operation and main-
tenance roads would be built along all main canals. Evaluation of the
unidentified systems would be based on basic criteria of a minimum cropping
intensity of 130% and a minimum economic rate of return of 10%. It has been
agreed that NIA would submit an evaluation report for review by the Bank prior
to implementation for systems costing more than P 3.0 million and summary data
forms for the remaining irrigation works (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 16 -
51.       About 45% of the wells and springs to be developed under the
project would be in Western Samar, and the balance evenly divided between
the other two provinces. The wells and springs would serve as point
sources, without distribution or reticulation, for an average of 250 people.
A washing/bathing platform would be built at each site.
52.       Large-scale examination of about 80,000 people and chemotherapy
of an estimated 41,000 people would be undertaken in municipalities with
high schistosomiasis incidence. Praziquantel, a new schistosomicide
which appears suitable for large-scale therapy, would be used, provided that
the results of present trials being conducted in Leyte are successful. Three
field laboratories would be built and equipped for stool examinations,
malacology, data analysis and clinical examinations.
53.       The project would provide for preparation of a detailed feasibility
study of the Catubig valley in Northern Samar, in which irrigation drainage,
flood control, rainfed agriculture, health services and transportation
development would be considered in a comprehensive plan. The project would
provide for surveys, mapping, field investigations and consulting services.
It has been agreed that the Government would engage consultants satisfactory
to the Bank under terms of reference and conditions agreed with the Bank
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
54.       Project implementation would require coordination between a number
of national ministries and line agencies. Responsibility for coordinating the
activities of these organizations and for implementing the project at the
national level would rest with the Project Director of the Samar Integrated
Rural Development Project Office (SIRDPO). The office would also service the
Australian-financed project and the Project Director's authority would extend
over both the Australian and Bank-assisted projects. The Project Director
would report directly to the Cabinet Coordinator, who is the Minister of Local
Government and Community Development, and to the member of the National
Council on Integrated Area Development (NACIAD) allocated prime responsibility
for overseeing the project. The Director would have a small technical and
management staff including a monitoring unit to assess the physical progress
of the various project components. The Government has appointed a well-
qualified individual to the post of Project Director and it has been agreed
that the Bank would be afforded an opportunity to comment on any new
appointment to the post during the period of project implementation (Section
3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Director would be responsible for
approving detailed annual budgets and work programs for project activities
prepared by the participating ministries and agencies. To perform this
function, he would be chairman of a Steering Committee composed of senior
officers from each of the ministries and agencies involved in the project as
well as a representative from the Ministry of Budget. It has been agreed that
each ministry and agency would prepare an annual budget and work program for
its part in the project and submit them to the Steering Committee for approval
at least three months in advance of each fiscal year (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
55.       Since all ministries and agencies are organized on a regional
basis, the senior officers of the various line agencies with the most direct
authority over the project would be the Regional Directors of Region VIII,
headquartered in Tacloban City in Leyte. To ensure coordination of
activities at the regional level and a quick channel of communicatLon with
the Steering Committee, the Government has established a Regional Advisory
Committee. The Committee would include, in addition to all the Regional
Directors concerned, the three Provincial Governors and the Regional
Director of the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA). The Project
Director would be Chairman of the Committee. In each of the provinces of
Samar the Government has established a Provincial Advisory Committee,
consisting of the provincial heads of each line agency and the Provincial
Governor. The Provincial Project Officer would represent the SIRDPO and
would be chairman of the Committee.
56.       The Bureau of Construction and Maintenance of the Ministry of
Public Highways (MPH), working through the Regional Director, would be respon-
sible for improvement and rehabilitation of the national highways in Eastern
Samar. The MPH has prepared detailed designs and is completing final
engineering specifications and tender documents; it would award contracts and
supervise construction. The Harbors Division of the Ministry of Pujblic Works
(MPW) would be responsible for preparation of the detailed designs, final
engineering specifications and tender documents, award of contracts and
supervision of construction of Catbalogan port. The Philippines Port
Authority would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the port after
completion of rehabilitation.
57.       The Bureau of Wells and Springs of MNPW would be responsible for
implementing the project's water supply component. The Bureau of Community
Development would organize the beneficiaries of a well into a Baranigay Water
Users' Association (BWUA), which would donate the land for the well and access
together with labor during construction and would agree to set aside in a
special account P 12/family/year towards maintenance costs of the lwell. The
Bureau of Community Development has agreed to get the BWUAs set up one year
ahead of the drilling program, to ensure that the people are genuinely
interested. MPW would train one or two members of the BWUA in minor main-
tenance practices for the well and pump. MPW would also set up under the
project mobile maintenance teams, supported by small provincial workshops,
which would routinely inspect all wells on a regular schedule and would also
be available for emergency repairs as needed. The Ministry of Hea:Lth, through
the Schistosomiasis Control and Research Service (SCRS), would be responsible
for the schistosomiasis component of the project. All SCRS operat:Lons would
be directed from a regional headquarters in Leyte.
58.       The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) Regional Office in
Tacloban would be responsible for implementation of the engineering aspects of
the communal irrigation component, working through the Provincial Engineers
located in Northern and Western Samar.  The Farm Systems Development Corpora-
tion (FSDC) office in Leyte would be responsible for organizing the required



- 18 -
Irrigation Service Associations in each of the identified systems, getting
them registered and then providing them with leadership and support until the
Irrigation Service Associations learn to operate and maintain the systems
adequately. The FSDC would assign one Institutional Officer per system,
roughly equivalent to one Institutional Officer per 70 farmers, who would
remain assigned to the system for the first five years after completion
of construction. The provincial office of FSDC would monitor the operation,
maintenance and agricultural production of the systems for a minimum period of
five years after completion of construction. Communal irrigation systems in
Samar have frequently failed due to the farmers' inability to operate and
maintain the systems. It is hoped that by providing intensive Farm Systems
Development Corporation coverage in the first five years of operations,
difficulties encountered in the past can be avoided. Agricultural extension
would be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Bank has already
provided assistance in strengthening the National Extension Service under
Loan 1626-PH.
59.       The project would provide for consulting services to assist MPH
in construction supervision. Provision would also be made for consultant
assistance to assist SIRDPO to carry out the Catubig valley studies. It is
estimated that about 60 man-months of consulting services would be required
for the road component and 55 man-months for the Catubig studies at an
average overall cost of $10,000 per man-month. A further 90 man-months of
consultant services from local associates of the expatriate firms would be
provided for the Catubig studies at an average cost of $2,500 per man-month.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       Total project costs are estimated at $45.0 million, of which $26.0
million or 58% is foreign exchange. The implementing agencies are exempt from
the payment of taxes and customs duties and these have been excluded from the
costs. A physical contingency factor of 10% has been applied to the base cost
estimates for civil works for roads, ports and water supply, and a 15% factor
for irrigation. Costs due to expected price increases over the implementation
period are about 23% of base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming the
following annual inflation rates for civil works, equipment and services: for
the local component, 16% in 1980, 10% in 1981 and 7% in 1982-84, and for the
foreign exchange component, 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981, and 7% in 1982-84. The
proposed loan of $27.0 million would finance 60% of total project costs and
would cover the full foreign exchange component and $1 million of local costs.
The justification for local cost financing is set out in para. 21 of this
report. The balance of project costs would be met through annual government
budgetary allocations to the various agencies. As noted in para. 41 above,
this project is part of a larger development plan for Samar Island, part of
which is being financed by the Australian Government in the form of a grant.
Procurement
61.       Equipment, vehicles, spare parts and supplies for roads, irrigation
systems, and water supply wells, costing about $6.8 million, would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A



- 19 -
preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each
would be procured through existing government procedures, which are acceptable
to the Bank. The total cost of such items for all components of the project
would not exceed $200,000 (para. C.1 of Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Construction of the national roads, totalling about $17.5 million,
would be done by contract under international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Guidelines. The irrigation component of about $2.5 million and
the water supply component of about $2.4 million are not suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding since the works are small and widely scattered.
They would therefore be carried out by contract under competitive bidding
locally advertised in accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable
to the Bank. There is potentially adequate competition and foreign firms
would be eligible to participate.  However, in order to strengthen MPW's
implementation capability and facilitate drilling of wells in relatively
inaccesible areas not attractive to contractors, 50% of the wells (about
$400,000) would be carried out by force account.
Disbursements
62.       The loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
directly imported equipment and materials, 100% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured equipment, or 65% for imported equipment procured under
local procedures. For consulting services, technical assistance and overseas
training, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements
for civil works would be 50% of certified monthly program payments or expen-
ditures for contract work. Disbursement for force account work would be made
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be
submitted to the Bank for review, but would be retained by the Borrower, and
made available for inspection by the Bank's supervision missions. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by June 30, 1985, six months after the
scheduled completion of all project works.
Cost Recovery-Irrigation Component
63.       The NIA would construct the irrigation works and charge the Irriga-
tion Service Association of each system. NIA's present terms of repayment
for communal systems treat 10% of the capital cost as a grant, 70% as an
interest-free loan, and 20% as a loan with an annual interest of 6%. The
NIA loan is repayable in 25 years, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.
The incremental rent recovery index ranges from 18% for an owner-operator to
40% for a leaseholder, and varies negligibly with the size of the farm.
The average incremental rent recovery index of 30% is a little higher than
in other Bank-assisted irrigation projects in the Philipines due to the
small incremental yields expected. However, the cost recovery index of
15% is lower than that in other projects because the terms for repayment do
not compensate for inflation in contrast to noncommunal systems where the
repayment is denominated in terms of kg of paddy per hectare. In view of



- 20 -
the low income levels of the beneficiaries, the proposed level of repayment
is acceptable. No "betterment" taxes or other Government levies are
envisaged for the areas.
Environmental Effects
64.       The project is not expected to have any adverse effect on the
environment. The project would have a beneficial effect on the health of the
people in Samar through the provision of a potable water supply and the
control of schistosomiasis.
Prolect Benefits and Justification
65.      The project forms part of the Government's effort to upgrade the
quality of rural life and to increase production opportunities in one of the
poorest and most neglected areas of the Philippines. The weighted rate of
return for the project, excluding the health and water supply components, for
which benefits were not quantified and which account for 33% of project
costs, is 15%.
66.       Road Component.  The 230 km of national roads in Eastern Samar
would improve access for some 40,500 rural families, or 213,000 people, with
an average annual per capita income of $55, at an average cost of $385 per
family. Upgrading the roads would permit the free movement of inputs and
produce, reductions in costs, mobility for the extension services and better
access to health and education facilities. The economic rate of return is
14% for an investment of $19.8 million.
67.       Port Component.  Rehabilitation of the port of Catbalogan is of
considerable significance to the development of Samar. It is important for
interregional travel, the import of food, construction materials and oil
products and the export of agricultural products. In the absence of rehab-
ilitation, cargo and passenger traffic would have to travel to Tacloban,
about 110 km away. Benefits have been expressed in terms of the amount users
of the port would be willing to pay for its rehabilitation. Since it was not
possible to measure the willingness to pay directly, the cost of transport
from Catbalogan to Tacloban was taken as a minimum measure of the users'
willingness to pay, ignoring the possibility that the users would be willing
to pay more for the convenience of a nearby port. The economic rate of
return is 19% for an investment of $2.1 million.
68.       IrriRation Component.  Approximately 1,000 farm families and 500
landless laborers' families, 95% of whom fall in the target group, would
benefit directly from increased production and employment. The component
would create a demand for an additional 136,000 man-days of farm labor per
year, equivalent to some 560 full-time jobs. At full agricultural development
there would be an incremental yearly paddy production of about 3,800 tons,
with an export value of $800,000 at forecast world market prices. The
economic rate of return for the irrigation component is 16% for an investment
of $2.6 million.



- 21 -
69.       Water Supply Component.  The project would provide a safe and
reliable source of water to about 118,000 rural families, totalinlg some
650,000 people. The benefits from good water would arise from a reduction in
waterborne diseases and the elimination of a considerable amount of
unproductive time and effort devoted to hauling water over long distances.
These benefits have not been quantified but are judged sufficient to justify
the small per capita investment of about $14.
70.       Schistosomiasis Control Component.  The project would provide mass
chemotherapy for about 41,000 people in Samar currently suffering from the
disease. The malacological and parasitological surveys, together with the
improved capability of the SCRS, would lay the groundwork for the identifica-
tion and possible implementation of a wider control program affecting a
greater number of people.
71.       Distribution of Benefits.  The main beneficiaries of transport
cost reductions on the road would be the rural communities in the area of
influence of the roads. Given the competitiveness of the transport industry,
a significant part of the road-user savings can be expected to accrue to the
rural communities in the form of reductions, or at least, slower increases
in transport charges. In addition, the increased agricultural production
induced by the roads would benefit farmers by increasing their incomes.
Assuming that half of the cost reductions from buses and jeepneys are passed
onto the rural communities, about 60% of the total benefits from the road
would accrue to the poorer section of the rural communities, almost all of
whom have incomes below the absolute poverty level. The remaining 40% of
the benefits would be shared by commercial transporters, middlemen, and
owners of cars. Similarly, in the case of Catbalogan port, about 60% of the
benefits of the port would accrue to the rural community, almost all of whom
have incomes below the absolute poverty level. The remaining 40% of the
benefits would accrue to transporters and middlemen. For the irrigation
component, about 85% of the benefits would accrue to farm families below the
absolute poverty level. For the road, port and irrigation components, which
represent about 67% of the total project costs and for which benefits have
been quantified, about 63% of benefits would accrue to the rural population
in the target group. The water supply and schistosomiasis components, for
which benefits were not quantified, would also benefit the absolute poor.
Risks
72.       No unusual problems in implementation are expected, since most of
the works are standard and would be carried out by agencies having consider-
able experience in similar works.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,



- 22 -
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 13, 1979



- 23-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIUL IDICATOS DATA SEELr
LAND A%  (TROVSAM                PR~~IULlPPIXES             U9USNCSt GROUPS (ADJUSTED A)rES
1.&mo fTBOUSAND 59ous~z  so.  )             PUILPP                         - I0MT RECENT  SCTUIATS)
TOTAL            300.0                                                 SA4h        S1       NMEXT RICGIM
AGRICULTURAL      86. 7                              MST IUCrT    GCDIAORIC    ICOSM             COIf
1960 Ab    1970 A  ESTImATE /b      1100  Xc  GROUP Lt    0W1?P l
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 140.0      230.0    510.0            528.9      467.5      1097.7
ZIEXCY CONSUQTION PF  CAPITA
(KIL0GIAMS OP COAL EQUIVALUT)     147.0       301.0    329.0            371.1      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AiD VITAL TATSTCS
POPULATION.  SID-TEAR (KNLLlONS)   27.4        36.9      44.5
URII POPULATIOI (PERCENT O TOTAL) 30.1         31.6      34.0-           27.4      24.6        49.0
POPULATION PRJDTONS
POPOLATION IN *EA 2000 (tLONS)                         76.0
STATIONAZ  POPULATION tMILIOW S)                      128.0
TE  STATIONAtY POPULATION IS RECHD                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. E.                       91.0        123.0    148.0           154.S       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. IX. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0      472.0    513.0            566.7      149.0       140.7
POPUMATION ACE STRUCTSE (PERCENT)
0-14 TS.                         44.7        45.5      46.0            41.3       45.2        41 3
15-64 YS.                         52.3        53.6      51.0            54.9       51.9        55.3
65 US. AiD ABOVE                   3.0         2.9       3.0             3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GIDVE   AT  (POCIST)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.0       2.7             2.4        2.7         2.4
URBAN                              4.0         3.8      3.5             4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDE SIM1 RATE (Pa TUUSMD)       45.0        43.0      35.0            30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE TRO IND)       15.0        11.0      9.0             8.3       11.7         9.2
GC SS RSPRDDCTION RATE               3.5L       3.3       2.4             2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMIKY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSIDS)       ..       191.7    643.0
USERS (PERCENT Of MALRIC  WON)    ..          2.0      22.0            34.1       13.2        34.7
700D AIID NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODDCrION
PE CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.1       101.0    111.0            106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAL9HIES (PRCzT or
RZQUtIREms)                    83.0        86.0      87.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (CPAKS PER DO!)         44.0        45.0      50.0            57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WVICR ANIMAL AND Pt7LSE      19.OjL     22.0      19.2            16.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0       10.0       7.0             4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPCTAlCT AT SIRTB  (TEARS)    51.0       57.0      60.0            61.1       54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TFOUSAND)                          98.0        80.0      65.0            46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      39.0            21.9       34.4        60. 1
UIRANJ                             ..          ..      51.0            46.2       57.9        75.i'
RURAL                              ..          ..      33.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO  XCEEA DISPOSAL (PERCNT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      56.0            28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..          ..      76.0            65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0            14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             ..          ..   3150.0           3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PRSON         ..      3840.0    4990.0          1107.4    1522.1       1195..4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1180.0      850.0    880.0            613.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           203.6      272.7       253. L
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          1110.3    1404.4       2732..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITJAL BED         ..          ..        ..            23.9       27.5        22.1
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.8         5.9        ..             5.2        5.4         5.3
URBAN                              ..         6.2        ..              ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              ..         5.8        ..              ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              *-         2.3        ..              ..         ..         1.9
CRBAN                              ..         2.1        ..              ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..         2.4        ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL:NGS)
TOTAL                             16.5       22.9/h    31.0              ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                              ..        62.B        ..              ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                              ..         5. 8     10.0              ..        9.9        17.3



- 24 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL  INDICATORS DATA SHUET
RPIIPENS CH ROUPS (ADJUSTED AERAGES
PIIILIPPIN S- If05T RECENT ESTIMATE &
SA--        SAME     NEXT SIGER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOtE         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 b ESTIATE /b         REGION Jc   GROUP d    GROP La
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENOLLMENT RATIOS
MIMHAR:      TOTAL                 95.0        114.0     105.0             97.9       82.7        102.5
MALS                 98.0        115.0     102.0             98.7        87.3       108.6
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     10,.0             97.4        75.8        97.1
SECONDAR:   MOTAL                  26.0         50.0      56.0             42.2       21.4         33.5
MALE                  28.0        59.0      65.0-            46.7        33.0        38.4
FEMALE               25.0         42.0      47.0             40.9        15.5        30.7
llDCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  15.0          6.0        ..             12.5        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TZACHER RATIO
IDNAY                              36.0        29.0       29.0             32.5       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                          27.0         33.0      31.0             25.8       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6      87.0             84.1       54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCZR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         8.0        8.9              6.1        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         22.0        39.0       44.0            84.4        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         10.0      17.0            22.4        13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        14.0       18.0             24.2       18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            ..       7.6              3.6        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
MOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0      12400.0   16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4        33.1       35.3             36.7       29.2         25.0
ACRICULTURZ (PERCENT)              61.0        55.0       50.9             54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2        15.8       14.8            16.3        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6       35.3             40.7       37.1         33.5
MALE                                 52.1         48.6      47.1             49.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                               27.4         24.4      23.3             31.0       20.4         11.8
ECONOIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.3              1.1        1.1          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT O  HOUSEHOLDS   28.8            ..        ..             14.9       15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOSEHOLDS  56.2          53.9       53.3             46.8       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2           3.7       5.5              6.2        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9          11.9      14.7             16.8       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
YEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     250.0           193.1       241.3       270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     190.0            128.7      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
USN                                  ..           ..     132.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0            96.8       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
U'RBAN                               ..           ..      39.0            32.0        24.8        20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      44.0             52.5       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric ceans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicacors depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
7c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Mtiddle Incomne (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Hiddle Income
(5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  /g  Av. 1960-62;  /h  1967, households.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



- 25 -                                                                          ANNEX I
Notes:   lthoughtO. dat  are drss fromsourcesgenerely                                        it0shulorals  he metd that heygPag                         33 oof 
!ateily   thbdt  we  rov  frs, ourcs SterllyJudged the most authoritative and r.liable, ish-   aobe tdtathy  W  not be intern.-
inrl  copral  bcuse of the leek of standardized definitions sea concepts usedG by different countriese in collecting the data. The data ore, nonetheless,
useful, to describe orders of magnLitude, indicate treads, ansd cheracterize certain major differences between countries.
The.dutdgopaeae  for each indicator are population-weighted gesuwtric mans, excludin  the extras values of the indicator sod the zsaet populated
countfy i  echgou.   a  to lack of data, group averages of sll indicators for Capital Suopius Oil Exporters snd of indicators of Access to Water end Escreta
Disposa', Housing, incom  Distribution sad Poet   o   throutygrusaeppLatioo-weighted geomtric mesas without sxciusion of the euctreme values and
th aot populated country.  Since the cove=ragef counrie  smgthe indicators depnds don availability of data. and Is not unfo:rm.catiun. out be exercised
to reatin  averges  f oeIndicator to soother.  These everages are mostly ussfula  anprosisetione  f"nce                 auswe   onrn  the  valusof one~
idctor at    tis    o  the country sod reference groups.
LASD ANEA (thoussod sq.he.(                               --d   trAccess to lborne Disposa  (eenofcuation) - tota   uran  adrurl
""~!l"'Tota  suface ees. comprising land are  snd inJn  wtr.Number of peep1. (tota,urban,  ad uralIsevsd byeeet                                       a dispoa as
AgriculturalX - Most recent estimate of agiculturalL are  used temprarily                 percentages of their respective populations. fEcreta disposal eq  include
or permanently fur crops, pastures, market end kitchmn gardens or to                    the coLlestion end disposal, with or without treatment, *,f hasman anerte
lie f allele.                                                                           and wse.a    by sater-born   sstems or the use of pit priviesds..aM2 ils
2!~ ~APdTT  (US) - GNP per capita estimates at current merket prices,                     f9pstp41 fflfio     jci   - population divided by number of practicing pbysicisasa
Ld  y C    conversion anthod -s World lank Atlee (1976.78 Oasis);              qiiillfied 'r.. .edloal school at university iL.el.
1960, i970, ed1978 data.                                                                PopUlAtion Der Nursing Perston - PopLultion divided by'oumber of practicing male
WlIY cWThlON PU   AP     - Annual conesamption of commercial energy                       and female graduate  nuses, practical murses * ad assistant murses.
(coalandS lignite, petrolue,a natural gas and hydro-, m1clean sd geo-                    Poplaio 0r:   ~Hosia   edi - t ta,urban. andrurl -iPopulation (totaL, urban,
thermal electricity) in kilgremas of cal equivalent per capita; 1960                      anMua)  iie y thiwepcieetrof hospita.0 Deds availsbie In
1970, and i976 data.                                                                      puhlio end private general end specialized hoetpital end rehabiLitationo ceners.
Hospitals are establiostnts pernmaently staffed by at lesast one physician.
MPoPOATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             Establishamnts providing principally custodia.l caeare soot included. Rura1
TotlPopultion.   tfa   miioc) - As of July i; 1960, 1970, and                             hospitals * however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed
191f data.                                                       b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ty a physician (buLt by a medical amstsieet, nurse, midwif.e, etc. ) which offer
tlrbec Popultion (ertentoftoal    FlSat in of urban to total population;                  in-patient accozmodation and provide a Lidtted range of sedical facilities.
differeotdeficitioss of urba   aramyeffect comparability of data                     Admiss ion  0e   ospital Bad - Total nuber of admissions t,, or discharges froni
sene  contris;1960, 1970, end 1975 dAta.                                           hospial  diided by the outber of bed..
Pbypltiootim ear2000 - Current  pulati- projections eyebused 00t                   HiOUSIG
M1     tat"ipopulation by ageo sod se  and their mortality ad fertilit            Average Sioc of Household (,a;nrso  pr=huehl) - total, urban, and rural -
rates. Plrojection parameters for mertLilty rates comprise of three                  A household consist  of arop ofniiul    ho shreliing quartersnsd
levels assumsing life sopectany at birth increasing with country's                   their maInl male,  A boarder or lodger my or eay ant be included in the
per Capita income level, end female life expectancy stabilizing at                   household for statistical purposes.
77.5 years.  The paraetecers for fertility rate aleo have tktre  levels            Average numberofprnserom - totaltuba,and rur,l - Average  ..unber
assuing decline in fertility according to incam Level sad past                       of pereons per romin al   ran, .adrua   ocpied ooe-tio-a  dweilings,
family ulanning performance. Esch country to then assigned ose of these              reapectively,  Dwellings exclude non-permaneot structue,u and unoccupted parts.
sine combinations of wurtality and fertility trends for projection                 Aeccestato Elcrict~ (percent of dwilNjje) - total, srb ssjan ,rural. - Con-
worpuse.                                                                             vetoa   wlig    ihelaiuyi  iigquarters as percentage of
Stat.ionery onpulation - In a stationary population then  is no growth                  total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
mic  tebirth, rate is equal to the death rate, and also the age
structure remains constant. ThIs is achieved only after fertility rates          EItrATION
decline to the replacment Level of unit net reproduction rate, when                Adjusted Enrollant Ratios
each generation of women" r-places itself exactly.  The stationary popu-             PrIrcol-ttLml sodfemls.1  - Gross totalI, male and female enroll-
iation sioe wa  estimated os the basis of the projected chsaracteristics                ato   l ae    t the priarlve  as poeretages of~ respective primary
of the population in the year 2000, end the rate of decline of fertiLity                school-age popuLntions; normally Includes chiidren sge,i 6-li1 years but
rate to repiacement level.                                                             adjusied for different lengths of priasry eduocation~ f,,r countries with
Year stationar  onltio  is reached - The year when stationary population                 universal education enrollment eq  exceed 100 percent aince some pupils
s    Meyabe  rechd.n                                                              are below or above the officialL schooL age.
Population Density                                                                        Seconaysho     oa,ml  o   eae-Cmue   sace   eodr
Per sq. ha. - Hid-year population per square kilometer (100 bectsree) of                  eduatoz reuie  at latfur years of approved pri,esry istruction;
total area                                                                             provides general vocational, or teacher training isstructIonu  for pupils
Per so. we. agicultural isnd - Computed an shove for agricultural land                   usualIly of iS to 17 year  of age; enrrspoadeneesr,,.r  geneally
only.                                                                                  exclded.
Pova atlon Age Structure (percent) - Children (O-iL. years), working-age                 voational enrollet (percent.o  secondary) - Vocationa.L institutions include
1-6b yeas,), end retiredb5-yasadoe) as percentages of mid-year                         technical, iodstie,or ohrprogrems which operate independently or a
population; i960, 1970, end 1977 data,                                                    departumets of secondary institutions.
Population Growth Rate (prcent)   ttal--AnsnuoL growth rates of total mid-                Pupil-teacher ratio -primary  Land sendsry - Total students enrolled in
ysa  poulaios fr 15060,1907,sand i970-77.                                          primarysd scnay levl  divided by numbers of t*em,her  to the o-rre
Popultion Growtrh lRa~teperen t)  - uban - Annual growt rates of urban                      spending levels.
pouaions fo1906, 195-70  an'  d 1970-Tl.                                            Adultpeliterar  rate (percent) - Literate adult s (able.to read en-wite) as
Crude Birth Rate (per thousand) - Annual. live births per thousand of mid-                  apretage oftotal adult population aged 15 Year sumd over.
year population; 19tW, 1970, and 1977 data.
Crudeet Rae(prthuad) - Annual deatbe per thousand of mid-year                        COflUhrTIIt5
pplatiom; 195,17,ad17   aa                                                         P.senge Cars (pe  thousandr=upuLa-u) - Pas.....er oar  comprise actor  a
Gross Reproduction date - Average comber of daughter. a sonan sill bear                    etig Lesstha  eight peson;  xciudee ambulances, hearses end military
in ber normal reproductive period if she cwperie.cce  presen.t aeg-                    vehicles.
specfift  fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in i960,                Radio Rceivcrs (per thousand  powlation) - ALI types of receivers for radio
i970, and 1975.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~broadcauts to genera =~l publper thousand of population; .ocludes unliceoned
Femil Plning. - Acceptors. Anul(huands) . Annual number of                                receivers in countries and i years shen regltration of radio setu esa In
scoeptors o.f birth-coto  deiesuder auspices of oational family                         effect; data for recent pears emy not be comparable since mot countries
plosin  progra.                                                                         abolished licensing.
Fsaiiy Planning - doers(percent of4 maried coe,n( -iPecoentage of married              TV R1efceiver's tper.thouPsand pousulatiosj) - TV receivers for broadcat to genral
o0`en of child-beain  age (1_-  Years) who us  birth-control devices                    puli erthuand popuatio; ecludes unlicensed TV receivers in countries
to all married. wson  in ssme, age group.                                              and in years when registration of TV sets was is effect.
FOOD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Newspapr Circulation (per thoussod Pou?satos  - Showe the overage circul.atloc
T_)ODTf   laTION  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~            ~o   dily general interest  ewpaper" t.defned as a priodical publication
Inde ofFoo  Prducton  er  apia (169-1-io)    indc o  pe  taitadevoted primaily to recording general news.  It is cons idered to be "daily
asonul productico of all food osamdities. Production occludes seed and                  if it appear   t least four times e seen.
feed and to on calendar year basis.  Csdittie  cover primary goods                   Cinema Annual Attendanc  per Capita, er Year - based on the ounber of tickets
(e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar) which are edible and contain nutrients               soddrngteya,  cldn   amsin  to drv-cciea   ndah
(55   ofee and tee or  excluded).  Aggregate production of each country            -cit..
in base.d. onat ionl average proucr price wei 1 up'  f (eeto  gh:ts.)_ steE
Per capita supyodalor-v   preto   eurmns)-Cmue   rm                                lM   OC
enrgy oquivalnot of net food soppioc  available  n country per capita              Total LahrForc(tuan) - Oconomica.Lly active persons, iorlodinK armed
Per lay.  AvilabiL  -uplies coprise do-eto- production, imPorts es                   force  aduemplodye -bu~t wcolgiueovo   tdss  ec    eiis
e-ports, end cheoge  in "stock.  Set ouppLles e-cide aninal feed, needs,              to various countries are not cmparable.
quatities used in food processing, and louse  to distributicoa. Require-           FpalyjIPryrcent( -.Female iabor force us percentage of total labor force.
sento wen enttimated by FAG bused on physiol.ogical ...ent for no-urma               IA2tur TIir  n c      - labor force in farming, forestry, ousting sod
ac.tivity end health oon..idertng  -ir-nnental temperature, body ceighdts,           flshung as percenta.ge of total labor force.
age and se. distributions of population, ocd nLosiog 10 percent for                Industry (percent) - lAbor force in  dmning, construction, ssnof"oturing and
oste at housetuid level.                                                             electriiy caater sod gas as percentage of total Laho  r.frce.
Per capita supplyo  prt,cpess r'grn owe day) - Protein cnteot of Per,atctaiRt  (pren)- total, sae, sd female - Rarticipation or
onpit netsuppy offood pe sdy.Nst  upply  of fod-o detiocd ansticiy raearcopte.d u   oa,ml,adfal ao   oc   spr
shoe. Requirenets for all coundtrie  etatblishedfby   D  provide for a               centages of total, male sod femle population of all ages repectively;
noimm   absence of 60 grams of total protein per day end SO grams of                 1960, i970, and 1975 data.  These a         re  1's p-rtiriiatios rates reflecting
anim'al and pulse protein, of chiuih 10 gro  should be animal protein,               age-see structure of the population, and long tine trend.  A few e-ti,aten
These.standards are lower then those of 75 gram  of total protein and                oex  frm  nationa.l source..
25 grase  of "imal prteo  as on averge for the nookd, proposed by PAP              Ncoomic Deedency Ratio -  Ratio of popsulutoo- under 19 and e5 and Overt
in the Thir  World food Survy, h.ao  force in age group of 15-64 years.
Per capita prtein supply fr.. animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
oeroied from animal  end Pulues- igr-n  pee dmy.                                 IIoCG  DISTPfa.7111
Chili (ages I-u) ortllty Rats (perithousad) - isna-    deaths Per thousand              Percntage of Private boome (both on cah and bind) - Receicd by richest
lo age group 1-4 year, to children in this age group; for most devel-                   5 percent, richest 20 p.eret, porest 20 percent, sod paooret 40 percent
opi.g countr ies data derived fron life taxIes,                                        of households.
FOAiTH                                                                                  P)VERT TAPIRT INIUPS
Life Oxpeconscy ut Rirth 'yean)         r hrge~ onher of year  of life                 E~stimated Abnolote Poverty moose leve I55 ,.per capita) - orio  aci rural-
renaoingat brth  195 ,1970, md 1977. data                                          Absolute pocerty inace l-eve  is tint moos   lee  below which a -oieal
Icif-st Mtiriuly Pate (per ttousonc) - Aucual ieucho of osfato under one                 nutritionally adequate diet Plus coooa        _co-fod requireents zn not
poor  fae pe  thousand live birtho.                                                     affordable.
ic-e- to Safe Water Percent of p.poIst i-c  . total, urban, and rura                    E.Stionted Relative Poverty Income Levei (US$ per capita) - urban and rural-
Dose   f'vp1pe 'total, urban, ano rual ith reaucable  -ce   to                    Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of ...erage Per  npita
caester nupply  includes treted osf-,i  sater  or -otreatd hcpersonal income of the coutry. Urban  eelis der-ced froe the rural level
uootsainated waler ouch as thot from protected bcrehole-, spr-ngs,                   with adjustent for higher coot of living on urban areas.
0d sanitar coa  percentages of theIr respective ppulntin.  In                        Estimated Pnp.iltion Beico ibsut  Poety :-oelvl(Iii,..ib~and -
auraaraa publi  fontin or standpost located not wcre than                       ral-Per.ct of popultion.ohnadraluoaeabltepr
200 meters fros a house nay be considered as being within -eadtons-hieh   r
socens of that house. Io rural areas reasonable wac,ss scald inply
that the hous.cife or members of the hcua-hcld do not have to apend aEcooic and Sioo1a bats livibon
disoronoc ticoate part of the day io fetching the follyn. sater newdo                                                    AcnobenLysie and Projections Department
August 1979



ANNEX I
26                                                                 Pags 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Annual average           1979
Actual                     Est.              Proiectad                       growth rates (S)         share
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978         1979       1980       1981       1985     1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of CDP
National Accounts (millions
of U5S at 1975 prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                             12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   21,298    22,594    29,392               6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terms of trade adjustment          168        0    -456    -613       -70        -70      -387      -465        -262        -         -         -
GDY                             13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129               6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - constant prices       3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489         5,865    6,068       6,484       8,271        8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices       3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592          4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022        7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade           3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359          4,355    4,464      4,897       7,760        5.4       1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                      .115   1,116   1,133       768   1,129       1,510    1,604       1,586        511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                     10.221  11.977  12,270  12,756  13,861        15,646   16,393      17,262    21,421         5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)       2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963         5,822    6,176       6,552       8,524       12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                 3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743         4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410        7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic savings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833         4,537    4,807       5,227      7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
US$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                     3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385         5,417    5,688        5,972      7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry /a                     4,087   5.314   5,836   6,285   6.690          7,043    7,536      8,064    11,061          8.6       6.2       8.0        35.1
Services                        4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853          7,617    8,074      8,558    11,072          6.0       8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index               47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2          117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1      11.4       7.9         -
Import price Index               44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5          119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1      13.2       6.8         -
Terms of trade index             105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9          98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7     -1.6        1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR /b                            4.5     3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import elasticity                0.93    0.59    1.24    1.22    2.32           1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3          23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Ieports/GDP                       25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0          29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5             29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                   0.9     7.1      6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                      1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)             --- (7 of GDP in current prices) --                 Labor Force in 1978 /c             Millions    (S)
Current revenue                   12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                 Agriculture                          7.4     44.4
rax revenue                       9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  Industry                             2.7      16.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                 Services                             5.6      33.0
Current surplus                    0.8      1.8     1.6      1.6      2.7              Unemployed                           1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures               1.9     3.0      3.5      3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
b Th. ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital fomation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
Ic Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1979



ANNEX I
27 -                                          Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAI ASSISTANCE
(DSS mIllion)
Actual                            fEt.             Prolected
1972       1975       1976       1977      1978      1979      1990      1981       1985
SuRmary of Balance of Payments
Exports (GNFS)                              1,432      3,000      3,330      4,021     4,555     5,230    6,740    1,730       14,475
Imports (GNFS)                              1,484      4,116      4,383      4,788     5,735    6,960    8,060    9,245        17,820
Resource balance                              -52    -1,116      -1,053       -767   -L,18E   -1,730   -2,020   -2,217         -1,345
Net factor -eriIce Income /l                 -125       -126       -323       -320      -406      -190      -200      -365        -655
Incerest (fot)                              -93        -65       -185       -240      -261      -315      -405      -477       -725
Ditect Inoe-tment iccome (oet)              -32        -61       -138        -R0      -149       125       125       1I1          70
Balance on goeds 6 services                  -177    -1,242      -1,376    -1,087   -1,588   -1,520   -2,300   -7,500          -2000
Trosf-ern (net.                               188        318        269        260       312        340       37n       4hO        600
Correct Acoount Balouce                      11       -924    -1,1027-2    -12 L4   -1,5                -Iq23    -2, 180     -1,407
ioo-ct In-eotmeot (et)                        -22        125        144        216        163       150       150      (77         275
P,,blio MLT loau dinborsemenrs                235        349        8n9        903    1,037      1, 175    1,749    1,782       2,224
Rep.y-ents                                  -78       -118       -165       -163      -419      -465      -731      -507    -1,130
Net dloboru-cencs                           157        231        704        740       616       710    1,018      1,277      1,094
Other MILT  ooan diobo --emott                137        331         538        326       740       349       605       778      1,176
Repayme-ts                                 -154       -205       -202       -381      -522      -295      -333      -383       -870
Net dlborueseo-to                           -17        126        336        -55       218        54       352       415        286
Total IILT loo disburnennots                  372        680      1,407      1,229     1 ,775    1,524    2,234      2,560      3,387
Repayments                                 -232       -323       -369       -544      -941      -760      -864      -870    -2,000
Net dinbhr.e.ento                           140        357      1,040        685       834       764    1,370      1,690      1,38E
iet drosingo on IMF /b                          7        110        214          79       24        98          -         -          -
Sh-rt-ter   -cp,tnl  (fot)                     76        102        -46        312        146       III      (10        127        17)
Capitol tca.a.c Ions, n.e.i./b                -98        292        -35       -300         53       -32         -         -          -
Change io ont cenervot (- = iccrotc)          -94        521         168      -164         54       501       300       259       -40n
Inecationnl rn.e. rt (fend-year) /c           551      1,358      1,640      1,525     1,883     1,383     1,083       883      2,183
Grotto and Loan Co-mitme-to
Official protos                               0.0        E.7        7.8        0.0       0.0
Total public loocs                          422.0      769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IRD                                       29.5      114.0      226.0      317.S      533.0
IDA                                        10.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       28.n
Other multilateral                         43.3      106.0       64.2      207.3      189.2
Cnoeroments                               275.7      182.3      391.6      122.3      370.4
of  hAich CPE                             O.O       13.2        5.9        0.9        0.0
Supplier                                    2.0       52.5       52.9      194.2       76.7
iinancial  -titmloti-rs                    61.7      314.6      476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                       0.0        0.n      367.2      129.7      219.2
Othec MLT Inans                             130.0      283.0      603.6       134.8      914.0
M-endraudn Itent
Grant element of c- it...ento                28.0       16.4        8.8        14.7       16.8
A-gerog  interest (%)                         5.4        7.4        8.3         7.9        7.4
A-erage m.t-rlty (yearn)                     17.3       16.7       43.1       15.3        15.9
Medium 5 Lono-Tec- Deht (diho.roed -uly)
Total debt outstanding (rod of
perlud)                                 1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,B39.0
Including o-diuborned                     2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt ner-vce                        -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of  hitch:  interent                      -51.6      -73.0      -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other MELT dObt mervice                    -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Tnto1 debt nerovic                         -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt serice ratin                            22.1       14.9        15.7       18.0       20.0                        D-cembee 31, 1978
Debt  ero1ce rotio /d                        22.7       15.6        16.4       19.5       20.6                          Amount  Pereent
Debt seroi-e/GDP                              3.8        3.0         2.9        3.7        4.7   Internal Debt         (US  m.I.)
Pobloc debt neosice/goecuaent                                                                    (disbucted only)
revenue                                    17.0        9.1        9.9       12.0       20.1      IBRD                   546    13.0
Bosk Gro-p            576    13.8
Terms                                                                                                 Other multi-
lareral             277      6.6
Interent oo total DOD/total DOD               6.1        5.4        4.1        6.4         4.0     Goernments           1,039    24.8
Tntal debt neecIce/total DOD                 17.7       16.9       17.5       15.8        13.3     Sopplaia7              271      6.5
Duep-d-ney Ratit institation-                                                                                             1,254    29.9
Bondn                 771    18.4
Groan disb.rnements/Imports (INES)           30.2       21.4       37.9       28.7        34.3     Total public
NDt tra.nfer/imports (GNFS)                  12.7        7.7        6.1         5.4        5.4        MLT debt          4,188   100.0
Net tenonfor/Dro-s  dimbn--ementm            41.9       36.2       16.2        18.9       23.2     Other (ELT debt    2,651       63.3
Other 01  debt
Epuom.re                                                                                                (incl. on-
dinbarned)        3,293     78.6
IBRD dlnb./gro..  total ditb.                 4.7        9.8        5.5         7.4        8.3     Total pnblin
Bank kGrop dimb./gronm  total disb.           4.8       10.7        6.2         7.5        8.3        debt fInc.
IBRD  DOD/total D                             7.8        8.0         7.2        7.3        8.0        andimbnrsed)    7,563   180.6
Bank Grnop DOD/total DOD                      7.8        8.6         7.8        7.8        8.4     Total MLT debt
IBRD debt neroice/total debt srrice           4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6         6.9        finlo. on-
Bachk -rup dnbt anro./total debt. nnr.    4.4            5.6        6.7         5.6        7.0        disburned)       10,856   259.2
/a  Reoitt-aces of Filipi-om  enployed abroad are included for 1972-78 Ic "Transfer-" a-d 1979-85 in "Direct In-etment Income".
/b  FPt penJection purpnem `Net draalnom on IMF" and "capial c1ansactnn, n.e.i ." ore  unamed to cancel nut each other.
/c   rnoa reneroem of the Central Daub 7 Internaninoal reneroe", IFS).
/d loclode- uet direct inoentmeot ooncme.
taut Aaia and Pacific Region
NIomber 1979



ANNEX II
-28-                             Page I of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1979
Loan sr
Credit                                                                        Amounts  ($ million)
Number    FY       Borrower                Purpose                          Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                             271.0   19.5
720-PH   1971           "                 Rice Processing & Storage        14.3                1.4
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                22.0                 1.2
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.        Education II                             12.7        0.5
939-PH   1973                             Ports                              6.1                0.3
950-PH   1973                             Second Highways                  68.0                 1.7
984-PH   1974                             Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                   2.8
998-PH   1974                             DFC-DBP I                        50.0                 4.1
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.0                4.5
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.0                13.3
1048-PH   1974           "                 Shipping                         20.0                11.2
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  DFC                                  30.0                 7.0
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                     17.0                7.6
1102-PH   1975                             Rural Development                 25.0               14.6
1120-PH   1975                             Small & Medium Industries        30.0                2.6
1154-PH   1976                             Magat Irrigation                 42.0               22.5
1190-PH   1976                             DFC-DPB II                       75.0               12.7
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education III                    25.0                16.4
1225-PH   1976           "                 Livestock II                     20.5                 8.2
1227-PH   1976                             Chico Irrigation                 50.0               39.1
1272-T-PH 1976           "                 Manila Urban                      10.0                6.7
1282-PH   1976           "                 Manila Urban                     22.0                14.7
1269-PH   1976                             Second Grain Processing           11.5               10.8
1270-PH   1976                             Second Fisheries                  12.0                6.9
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                   95.0               76.4
1367-PH   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                 15.0               10.2
1374-PH   1977           "                 Fourth Education                 25.0                18.0
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.5               23.6
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                  41.5
1415-PH   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                   18.8
1421-PH   1977                             2nd Rural Dev. Land Stlmt.        15.0               13.9
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.0               56.9
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming           8.0                7.9
1514-PH   1978 Philp. National Bank    DFC (PDCP)                           30.0               28.1
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                  58.1
790-PH   1978                             Rural Infrastructure                     28.0       27.9
S.8-PH   1978                             Education                          2.0                1.9
1547-PH   1978                             Rural Electrification            60.0               57.3
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC-PISO                              15.0                7.2
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         MAGAT II                        150.0              108.7
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III        80.0               68.2
1615-PH   1978                             Manila Water Supply II            88.0              88.0
1626-PH   1979           "                 National Extension               35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979                             Magat River Multipurpose         21.0               20.9
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                   16.2
1647-PH   1979                             Second Urban Development         32.0               31.4
1661-PH   1979                             Highways IV                      100.0             100.0
1710-PH*  1979                             Water Supply II                   16.0               16.0
920-PH*  1979           "                 Water Supply II                          22.0       22.0
1727-PH*  1979                             Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                  25.0
923-PH** 1979                             Population II                            40.0       40.0
Total                                                                1.970.9  122.2   1.229.9
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                             145.8
Total now outstanding                                                1,825.1  122.2
Amount sold                                               23.9
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        15.2            8.7      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              1,816.4  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                    1.139.5   90.4   1,229.9
* Not yet effective.
** Effective October 15, 1979.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1979
Fiscal                                                        Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -      8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0     4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              4.5       -      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8      0.4     1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -       2.2     2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2      2.1     8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -     15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3     2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5           0.7     2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -      1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0       -      7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2     3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5       -      3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1           -      2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1     5.1
Total gross commitments                        77.1    16.6    93.7
Less sold, acquired by others,               31.9    12.1    44.0
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              45.2      4.5    49.7
Undisbursed                                     7.6      1.1     8.7



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION A
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
The original project concept of constructing integrated large
capacity rice mills was amended in 1972 and the emphasis shifted to rehabili-
tation of existing rice milling facilities. A further amendment in 1974
included corn in addition to rice, enabled local governments and the National
Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and streamlined
procurement procedures. The project is now progressing satisfactorily and
most mills are working to near capacity. Arrears are still a cause for
concern, and DBP has been asked to step up its supervision and technical and
management assistance to help deal with this problem. Bank funds have been
fully committed; however, because of the long construction period for some of
the larger subprojects, the Closing Date has been postponed to September 30,
1980.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels has been completed. Diversion from one
of the two dams started in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule.
There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the service area
improvement works and, following award, some additional delays were
experienced due to an extended period for irrigation water delivery in 1977.
These setbacks have caused a two-year delay in project completion which is
now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31-                          ANN]X II
Pageo 4 of 17
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 60% of project
works completed against the appraisal target of 75%. Due to initial delays
and recent shortages of fuel and cement, the project is likely to be com-
pleted in June 1981. The total project area is likely to be reduced by
about 3,500 ha due to flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Project cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $36.5
million, with the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced
from 15% at appraisal to about 12%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 1979, physical implementation of the irrigation and
drainage components was about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays
in contract award and recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies,
construction has slowed down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation
system contract has been awarded, progress is expected to improve. The
road subproject is about 66% complete. Disbursements are slow, with only
25% of the loan amount allocated for road works so far disbursed. Physical
progress has been slow,. and shortages in fuel and cement have prevented any
improvement in the construction rate. Implementation of the roads
subproject is expected to be completed in June 1980.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project: $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management
training is continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for
improvements to the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in
the completion of the project.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to dominate the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) livestock project lending
activities, with subloans for beef production development lagging well
behind appraisal estimates. As a consequence, the project's list of goods
has been amended to allow for this fact. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal projections but subloan commitments are running ahead of schedule.
Project funds will probably be fully committed either in late 1979 or in
early 1980. Repayments of principal of the majority of DBP's borrowers
under the project are still under grace but a build-up of interest arrears
is beginning to emerge. As of June 30, 1979, principal and interest
arrears under the first phase project had reached about 25% of the portfolio.
We have assisted DBP with the development of an intensive action-oriented
collection program which is now under implementation. Thanks to government
approval of increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its
staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure
have been instituted and other organizational developments are under
consideration. The Bank is involved in a continuing dialogue with DBP on
various institutional issues.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equpment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Since the contracts were awarded,
however, progress has been satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers are making
good profits. DBP has undertaken to assist the smaller millers with limited
technical and management assistance, which should result in better repayments.
Demand for subloans has, however, been slowed down by what is perceived by
prospective applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. To assist DBP
improve their operations, the Bank has provided them with a list of detailed
recommendations on actions to be taken.



-33-                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan should be fully committed by mid-1979,
over 18 months ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14. 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
NIA's force account operations on access roads and drains has
improved following delivery of construction equipment in December 1978. The
detail design for a major part of the works has been completed and many
contracts have been awarded. The overall progress of the project :Ls satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Investments under the project are generally performing well,
although the commitment rate is slow and will decline even further with the
recent termination of large tractor financing. To help accelerate commit-
ments, the Central Bank, supported by the Bank, has made a number of
recommendations, including: the expansion of lending categories to include
additional agricultural investments; assignment of authority to the Central
Bank to evaluate and finance agricultural projects not specifically identi-
fied in the Rules and Regulations; the addition of private development banks
to the eligible financial intermediaries; expansion of training provisions
to include funds for domestic and foreign training of Central Bank staff.
Repayment performance continues to be unsatisfactory; however, causes are of
a long-term sectoral nature and will be addressed in that context. Vehicles
for Central Bank field staff have been procured, and contracts awarded for
the construction of the Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center
and for the Farm Mechanization Study. Completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained, particularly
with infrastructure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in
agriculture. Population of settlements is growing, more land is being
cultivated, and crop standards have improved. Problems associated with
legalizing land holdings are still of concern, and some difficult policy
decisions will have to be made before they can be resolved. Feasibility
studies towards a forward program have been initiated, indirectly focussing
attention on the need for policy studies relating to the future use of, or
developments within, unalienated lands in general.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project: $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23. 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Operations have started in all project components except research,
but progress has been lagging behind schedule; the DBP smallholder tree
farming component has met with a slow rate of farmer enrollment due to
problems with legal requirements, land availability and farmers' reluctant
attitude arising from lack of previous experience. However, DBP remains
committed to the project and is working on ways in which to stimulate
progress. In the Abra pine plantation component insufficiency of Government
funds has caused the program of vehicle acquisition and building
construction to fall a year behind schedule, but it is expected that the
delay will be made up to a large extent during 1979. Disbursements have not
yet begun, due to the early stage of the project and the initial delays.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule.
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed for about 80% of the
project area and design of project works is under way. The construction work
started recently is primarily devoted to service roads and structures along
main and secondary canals. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



-35-                        ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; CloEsing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. However, progress on
the design of village roads is slow. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Preconstruction works have been completed and works on dam founda-
tion, grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion tunnels are
under way and expected to be completed this year. The civil works contract
for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor has completed the
mobilization of staff and equipment.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan ofE
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982
A firm commitment to the project is evident. Management and
Executive Committees have been established, and previously withheld
budgetary allocations are now gradually being released, except for vehicle
purchase. Field implementation is expected to begin within the next few
months when it is hoped that budgetary releases for motorcycles and
communications equipment will be approved. Main problems at the m,oment rest
with the management of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension, where there is
some confusion as to responsibilities by division heads. The Minister of
Agriculture is aware of the problem, and is working on ways to strengthen
the Bureau's management.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The design for the Baligatan diversion dam and main canals has
been completed, and NIA expects to start construction work soon. Overall
progress is satisfactory.



-36-                         ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26. 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project has been slow in its lending operations, reflecting
expected initial low demand for loans on the part of the farmers. The Land
Bank is continuing its efforts to strengthen its field services and to estab-
lish closer contacts with the farmers. It is expected that the lending
program will gain momentum as these efforts result in more effective presence
of the Land Bank among farmers. The Land Bank is also actively considering
alternative ways of speeding up implementation of the project.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24.
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 94% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension.  Progress has recently been delayed by fuel shortages and
late contractual payments to contractors by the Government. The Closing Date
of the loan has recently been extended to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works
contract guarantee retention monies and the next ports project feasibility
study costs. The latest project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to
$12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 98% complete. Substantial problems
have been encountered at various times during implementation, which have
largely been overcome but which have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. Further major problems are not anticipated, and the project is
expected to be completed by March 1980, a delay of 3 years, with a new Closing
Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at about $178
million, an increase of about 39% over the original appraisal estimate, due
primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have been experienced
throughout the project.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping: $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The current rate of disbursement and commitments suggests that the
loan will be fully disbursed by the revised closing date of June 30, 1980.
It is possible, however, that the disbursement period may need to be extended
for six months for completion of the training programs and for ship construc-
tion guarantee payments. A report by a Bank consultant points out that there
is little likelihood that the ship safety inspection system now operated by
the Philippine Coast Guard can be improved without a major disaster providing
an impetus for change to a separate, more professional and better qualified
cadre of ship inspector. This report has been made available to the Govern-
ment.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded and work begun on all national roads
after initial delays in securing Presidential approval for some contracts.
However, much difficulty has been experienced in making acceptable progress
in many of these contracts, requiring that MPH terminate six out of
14 of them for unsatisfactory performance. In two cases, new contractors
have been appointed and work has begun again. Contracts for improvement of
minor roads have been awarded and work will begin following Presidential
approval of awards. After a delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance
and restoration program is now making satisfactory progress. All but one of
the 28 workshop contracts have been awarded, with work well advanced on
eight of them and the balance awaiting Presidential approval of awEards.
Procurement contracts for almost all equipment, tools and machinery have
been approved, with delivery expected during 1979. Consultants for
supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in place. Technical
assistance advisors to MPH and training advisors are due to complete their
assignments in November 1979 and March 1980, respectively. The road and
ferry feasibility report was submitted in October 1978. Overall project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates, but project
execution is expected to be delayed by about 24 months due to the :Late start
of certain critical activities and to the serious delays occurring in some
of the road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Expected Date of Effectiveness: June 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982
Prequalification of contractors for the road construction works is
now under way. Detailed engineering and bidding documents for the road
improvements were prepared under a previous loan (950-PH) and bidding will



ANNEX II
-38-                         Page 11 of 17
take place in the near future after the list of prequalified contractors has
been agreed upon. Invitations for proposals have been issued to the
short-listed consulting firms for technical assistance to MPH and MLGCD. A
short-list of prospective consulting firms for the design and construction
supervision of workshops is in the process of being drawn up and consultants
for this work will be invited to submit proposals before the end of 1979.
Preparatory work for the continuation of the Road Maintenance and Road
Restoration Program begun under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) is
scheduled to begin during the first quarter of 1980. Selection of Technical
Assistance consultants to MPWTC for the continuation of the "Transport
Planning Advisory Services," begun under a previous project, (Loan 1282-PH)
is in process.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224      Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has recently established an autonomous textbook agency
to manage book development, production, and distribution for public element-
ary and secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with only minimal (four month) delays, and 15 million
textbooks have been produced and distributed. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimate, and disbursements are about 76% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about nine months behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures are being taken by the Govern-
ment. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that the
project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is function-
ing smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs



- 39 -                           ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
and printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - RadiLo
Assisted Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education
for Teachers (CET). These programs have reached the two selected pLlot areas
on schedule (Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET will most likely begin
another experimental utilization in Mindanao in early 1980. In order to
provide information on the desirability of nationwide project impleinenta-
tion, the pilot project includes a substantial evaluation component which is
proceeding smoothly.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project: $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282       $22.0 Million Loans of June 9. 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
Community facilities such as the high school are in use and final designs for
the remainder of these facilities are nearing completion. Major contracts
for the Radial Road (R-10) have been awarded and implementation is to begin
promptly. The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many
initial difficulties overcome and valuable lessons learned which should hasten
implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan No. 1415       Provincial Cities Water Supply Project: $23 Million Loan
of May 13. 1977: Date of Effectiveness: September 9,
1977; Closing Date: March 31. 1982
Under Part A of the project, well drilling activities in five of
the six WDs are in progress. Designs of distribution networks, pumping
stations and reservoirs have been finalized and bids called. Public hearings
on the revised projects have been successfully held in three of the project
towns, one decided not to implement its part of the project, and one WD is
considering a reduction in its project. One WD did not meet the contribu-
tion to construction covenant for 1978, and corrective action is expected
soon. LWUA has been asked to formulate a plan to furnish assistance to WDs
in their institution-building efforts and to take steps to strengthen its
collection procedures. Part B of the project has been delayed due to a
scarcity of local contractors for drilling and testing wells in remote
locations. Disbursements have been slow (30% of appraisal estimate) mainly
due to change in procurement methods, weak project management and delays in
the work of local consultants. Tthis situation is expected to improve now
that a new Project Manager has been appointed, and it is anticipated that
the project will be completed within the scheduled period.



ANNEX II
-40-                          Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1615      Second Manila Water Supply Prolect; $88 Million Loan of
July 26. 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Part A of the project has been delayed by about one year due mainly
to slow Government approval of major contracts on source works financed by
ADB, which has produced similar delays in the Bank-financed components
(Part B). MWSS' consultants have prepared a new construction program
rescheduling the different components in order to meet the original target of
project completion in June 1983. This new program is reasonable. Award of
contracts under the IBRD part of the project is expected to begin about
December 1979. Part C of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. A water
rate increase of 59% was implemented in October 1978 as agreed during
negotiations, and two additional increases of P 0.25 each have been approved
by the President, and will be implemented in 1980 and 1981.
Loan No. 1647-PH  Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan became effective on April 26, 1979. Impplementation has
begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage contracts in Manila and the three
regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan de Oro. Designs for community
facilities in Phase I of Dagat-dagatan are in the final stages.
Credit No. 920    Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project: $22.0
Loan No. 1710      Million Credit and $16.0 Million Loan of June 29, 1979;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 15. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan/credit was signed on June 29, 1979 and is expected to be
declared effective on November 15, 1979.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31. 1979
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about US$59.3 million an increase of about US$11.0 million over the
original estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to December 31, 1979 to allow full disbursement of
committed funds. As of the end of September, the undisbursed funds amounted
to $1.2 million. Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.



ANNEX. II
-41-                       Page 14 of 17
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15. 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consul-
tants' services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1979, and
the transmission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than
two years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at
US$114.1 million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate
(US$92.0 million). The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is
US$5.2 million (9%). The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion
of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6. 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement has been slow, and as a result disbursements have been
behind schedule, with only $1.2 million disbursed as of September 30, 1979,
compared with the appraisal estimate of $19.0 million. Although the Bank
waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978, NPC achieved a rate of
return of 7% and expected to achieve 8% in 1979 after taking over plant
previously owned and operated by Meralco. However, prospects of achieving
the 8% rate of return in 1979 are considered slim because a planned 10%
tariff increase in Luzon has not been implemented because of "brownouts" due
to operating problems with its generating plant and increases in fuel costs
which were passed on to consumers. Plans for establishing a training
center, which was to be financed by the Bank, have been deferred.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification: $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
tender document preparation and delays in procurement. However, following
reorganization of NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank
project materials were awarded in April 1979. Construction is expected to
commence in late 1979 or early 1980 after receipt of project materials, and
first disbursements are expected before June 1980. NEA's financial
performance and position in 1977 and 1978 was good, and steps are being
taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial performance of
the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the Government's
financial performance guidelines.



ANNEX TI
-42-                        Page 15 of 17
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12. 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has
been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively large
industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about
1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of
the loan is nearly fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in
commitments and disbursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now
been fully committed. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: February 28, 1980
The original DBP ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan
have been fully disbursed. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Disbursements on this component have been slow and,
therefore, $1.7 million out of the original allocation of $2.3 million has
been reallocated to DBP, who can utilize this amount quickly. The Small
Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry
has been implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31. 1980
In February, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a proposal to
allocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries, and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977.
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected due to



43 -ANN]EX II
Page 16 of 17
a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, improved in
1978 and 1979. The loan has since been fully committed by DBP for
subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Mfillion Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
As of September 30, 1979 commitments under the loan amounted to
$9.4 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8. 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The pace of commitment of the loan has been much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully
committed by PISO. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements amounted to
$7.8 million. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6. 1978: Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978: Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Commitments for subprojects under the large industry component
amounted to over $27 million as of September 30, 1979. In addition, as of
the same date the small and medium industry component had been disbursed to
the extent of $5.4 million. The overall progress of the project Ls
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Proposed Date of
Effectiveness: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
This loan was signed on June 29, 1979 and was declared effective
on November 9, 1979.
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974,
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31. 1979
As of June 30, 1979, 179 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 27 were under construction and 13 had not been started.



44                         ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Contractors had completed 88X of all construction work. During the period
January to October 1979, many project components experienced implementation
delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart funds. While this
problem was partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation of funds
it is likely that there will be a six-month delay in project completion.
Since a number of activities being funded under this first project are
preparatory to the second, the continued problems with fund allocation will
delay effective implementation of the second project.  In January 1979 the
project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and equip-
ment for service delivery; training; information, education and communi-
cation campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second population
project. The amended total project cost is $40 million. The total cost
estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly to price
increases not materializing as forecast. The management situation in the
Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional analysis of
the Ministry of Health is under way. The recommendations of this study, if
implemented, should considerably strengthen the health care delivery system.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979: Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 15, 1979:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was signed on June 29, 1979, and is expected to be
declared effective on November 15, 1979. Preparatory activities funded
under the first project are being delayed due to shortages of Government
funds.



-45 -                             ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
SAMAR ISLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental ProJect Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 5 years.
(b) Project prepared by: respective Government line agencies.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: December 1975.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: February 1979.
Departure of Post-Appraisal Mission: June 1979.
(e) Completion of negotiations: October 18, 1979.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an
implementation schedule to ensure effective project implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) the Borrower would employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank for
supervision of construction of roads and for carrying out a
feasibility study for development of the Catubig Valley (paras. 48
and 53);
(b)  the Borrower would submit to the Bank for review, prior to
implementation, an evaluation report for communal irrigation
systems costing more than P 3.0 million, and summary data forms
for the remaining systems (para. 50);
(c) the Bank would be afforded an opportunity to comment oln any
new appointment to the post of Project Director during the period
of project implementation (para. 54); and
(d) each Ministry and agency would prepare an annual budget and work
program for its part in the project and submit them to a Steering
Committee for approval at least three months in advance of each
fiscal year (para. 54).



I



IBRD  14344
12J30'12'i-00'                                                         125130'                                                       JULY 1979
KILOMETERS 0        10      20       30       40       50                                                                   PHILIPPINES
-13'00        MILES                o2                         i                                                                 SAMAR   ISLAND
J13*tZ0'    MI   10 2b i   jRURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   '
[ARO FINANCED PROJECT
MAJOR FPOADS
IRRIGATION AREA
~4)    NUMBER OF WELL AND SPRING LOCATIONS
--    IDENTIFIED IN EACH MUNICIPALITY
SCHISTCSOMIASIS ENDEMIC AREA
p    H     Z ,/   /          N7  p  /  ,; Ey  5   ,C A'                           a         1CATUBIG DEVELOPMENT STUDYAREA
P/1!I/PA/,'VE         SEA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~. F~ORT
AUSTRALIA FINANCED FROJECT
MAJOR ROADS
---------- FEEDER ROADS
0/g/    -,                                                                                                     - * -  13.2 v DISTRIBUTION LINES
k31g-i                                                                                                            GO kVt7    '   '  '  69hl TRANSMISSION LINES
C,                                                   d   q   5                                      (+)    AGRICULTURAL SERVICE CENTER
Pan  IFED WATER SUPPLY
POWBR STATION
12 30                                                                                         l                                         EXISTING ROADS 
g 2ir ' 9 7sW \ _ 2                              - -      -  MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
V,cbto 15  / ~~~~~~~ *  ~~~    I 13 1                                       ---.- ~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
on ; Policorpio
?A4FD                   Cir     olb         oc      f y-ni                               i     il               o          e
AI AtAROO          t                     Mgont                ondo v/                               ;          -        i                                               12-00-
A/MAGIO       Z/ I            9        (t' Toer   <       ,      .;                            Rs
~'A hl A                    R                                  S  J o.' r                                   Jairn
4  r~~~~~~~ ~~~~>     4      te   E;~~~~~~~~~~~d in Bon-                                      D.1oes 
X   s/ffeA N           )g9colbitio-                    *7    . (;^ 7   - i~~~~RONCnAN
I12-00'                                                                                                                                                                    I 26'
-11X30' .> z/ \. .Tdzht .;2> S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onFrodI   naongWayon
120  ''  r.24   l jX   CAR/G RA     sJ5Yt              BagaIrba,       --*               -,                Llvente
C/---NA    11170/I               BA Y So                          ',                 .         |         , .-         A0
104
.. t.,  =,,    >                                                                          i; {Lata-An A -22Sr do
ISIANO                                                                              L. *' <XX  t1 2t   gnYp                       t     d      t           t        n, on.   SeSeOe t
i24XES                                                                                               te ot5 ' A  EAi  to      i d dn
v2e-  PiSdoB4is17zZ                                          RONGAN ndm   n the 10 Sternsofnt.,nto,' nayndoteenento
AfA v~~~~~~~~~~~~~150                                                      onpec fsihh.dte



