)FFICIAL     LOAN NUMBER 1772 PH
Loan Agreement
(Samar Island Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated          eA6r"Ar q            19gC


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1172 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              iLe Lr    r  I , 1990, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(21)  "Irrigation Service Association" means an association
of farmers in a communal irrigation system, registered in accor-
dance with Presidential Decrees Nos. 681 and 1595 of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   "Steering Committee" means the committee composed of
senior officers frow, each of the Ministries and Agencies of the
Borrower involved in implementation of the Project and chaired by
the Project Director; and
(c) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-2-
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
p-oceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, including: (i) the supervision of construction of
roads under Part A of the Project, and (ii) carrying out of the
feasibility study under Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when


﻿-4-
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall upon request
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
general design standards to be used for roads included in Part A
(i) of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) prior to the implemen-
tation of any communal irrigation system to be constructed under
Part B of the Project which is estimated to cost the equivalent of
Peso 3,000,000 or more, furnish to the Bank for its review an
evaluation report for such system, and (ii) furnish to the Bank
summary data forms for the other systems.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes to grant necessary
water rights for each communal irrigation system to be constructed
under the Project to the relevant Irrigation Service Association,
and shall grant no other water rights except for domestic use,
which would adversely affect the water supply for said systems.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, prior to any new appoint-
ment to the post of the Project Director during the implemen-
tation of the Project, afford the Bank an opportunity to comment
on the qualifications and experience of the proposed candidate.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, in respect of the Project,
cause each Ministry and Agency to prepare an annual budget and
work program related to its part in the Project and submit them to
the Steering Committee for approval at least three months in
advance of each fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such
lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably,


﻿-5-
and at no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the crea-
tion of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the crea-
tion of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing
not more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories, it will make
the foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on
the assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies,
and to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories to make this undertaking
effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the Ministries or Agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Category (1) (a) of the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its Ministries and
Agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part


﻿-6-
thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date         A                 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By IVI F-J-4r 2.KiA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                    50%
(a) by force                  200,000
account
(b) others                 14,800,000
(2) Equipment, vehicles          8,100,000
and materials:
(a) directly                                   100% of foreign
imported                                  expenditures
(b)  locally                                   100% of local
manufactured                              expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                                    65%
procured
(3) Consultants'                 2,200,000          100%
services and
overseas
training
(4) Unallocated                  1,700,000
TOTAL            27,000,000


﻿2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 10 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Transportation
(i) Improvement of about 230 km of national roads
in Eastern Samar.
(ii) Rehabilitation of the port of Catbalogan in Western
Samar.
Part B:   Irrigation
Construction of about 2,000 ha of communal irrigation systems
in Northern and Western Samar, including provision for vehicles
and equipment.
Part C:   Water Supply
(i) Construction and improvement of about 2,300 wells
and about 300 springs in small rural communities,
including provision of drilling equipment and
materials.
(ii) Provision for training relating to Part C (i) of
the Project.
Part D:   Schistosomiasis Control
(i) Construction of three field laboratories, and
provision of vehicles, laboratory and health
education equipment for case-finding and conducting
intensified malacological and parasitological
surveys.
(ii) Provision of drugs for large-scale chemotherapy
in municipalities of highest disease prevalence.


﻿- 12 -
Part E:   Catubig Valley Development Study
Carrying out of a feasibility study for development of the
Catubig valley in Northern Samar.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning    July 15, 1985                   900000
through   January 15, 2000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.35%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on
c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on ex-factory basis, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 16 -
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Philippines if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Philippines equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 17 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Any item of equipment and materials not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $10,000 each, may be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's normal competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, provided that the aggregate expenditure for such items
shall not exceed the equivalent of $200,000.
2.   Subject to the provisions of Part C.3 hereunder, contracts
for civil works related to communal irrigation systems and water
supply may be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.   Drilling of wells related to the water supply component
of the Project may be carried out by the Borrower through force
account provided, however, that such drilling shall not exceed
in respect of 50% of the total wells under Part C of the Project.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more or civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for


﻿- 18 -
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Road Design Standards
Terrain
Flat          Rolling         Mountainous
Design speed (km/hr)      70            60                 50
Pavement width (m)       6.0           6.0                5.0
Shoulder width (m)       1.0           1.0                0.5
Minimum horizontal
radius (m)          150            90                 50
Maximum gradient (%)       3             5                  7
Stopping sight
distance (m)         70            60                 50
Passing sight
distance (m)        350            30                 20
Right-of-way
width (m)            30            30                 30


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /     -4 day of  A     198   .
FOR SECRETARY


