Report No. PID8781
Project Name             Bulgaria-Wetlands Restoration and...
Pollution Reduction Project
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Natural Resources Management
Project ID               BGPE68858
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND
WATER
Wetlands Restoration and Pollution
Reduction Project - Project
Coordination Unit
Address: Ministry of Environment
and Water
22 Maria Luisa Blvd., Room 408
1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Contact Person: Ms. Marietta
Stoimenova, Project Manager
Tel: (359-2) 940-6551/940-6610
Fax: (359-2) 980-8734
Email: Wetlands_ppu@moew.government.bg
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        May 13, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 22, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 13, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Background. Bulgaria is situated in the heart of southeast Europe, and
lies in the eastern part of the Balkan Peninsula. Its climate ranges from
continental in the north and west to Mediterranean in the east and south.
The average annual precipitation is 640 millimeter (mm), but ranges from
480 mm on the Black Sea coast to 1800 mm in the mountains. The average
annual temperature is 10oC, but varies from -2oC in winter to 25oC in
summer. In general. Bulgaria is well endowed with natural resources. The
wide range of soils is conductive to a diversified agriculture and
forestry.  About 56t of the total area is agricultural land, about 35t is
covered by forests, and 5t is covered by water.Radical economic and
structural reforms were introduced in 1997. They resulted in a dramatic
fall in the inflation rate, acceleration in the privatization of state
owned enterprises and the return to modest economic growth. The economic
changes, however, led to widening regional disparities in living standards
and infrastructure, particularly in rural areas. During the 1990s, the
privatization of agricultural land, which took place mainly via the
restitution process, resulted in fragmentation in land ownership. Many of
the small private farms that emerged from the land restitution are
subsistence in nature. Poverty rates are higher among rural areas. In
1997, over 41t of rural residents were poor compared to 33t in urban
areas.Main Sector Issues. The Black Sea, a critical regional resource,



suffers severe environmental damage from eutrophication (i.e., the
collapse of food chains due to loss of life-giving oxygen), the
introduction of exotic species, inadequate resource management, and loss
of habitat -- all of which have led to long-term ecological change and a
decline of its biological diversity. In-depth analytical work points to
an increase in nutrient flux down the major rivers, as the most serious
problem facing the Danube River and the Black Sea over the medium to
long-term. The effects of eutrophication on the northwestern shelf of the
Black Sea at the mouth of the Danube have had particularly disastrous
impacts to water quality, natural habitat, and fish populations on which
both biodiversity and human populations depend. The Danube River is one of
the continent's largest and most important rivers linking Central and
Eastern Europe. It flows approximately 2900 kilometers through thirteen
countries from Germany to the Black Sea, includes 300 tributaries and
drains 817,000 square kilometers. The Danube contributes approximately
60t of the nutrient load to the Black Sea, with approximately 60t of the
nitrogen compounds and about 669 of the phosphorous compounds originating
from non-point sources within the Danube watershed.Regional action to
clean up the Danube/Black Sea. In response to growing concerns about
Danube pollution, and in recognition of the fact that significant nutrient
reduction requires regional commitment, the Danube River riparian
countries drew up the Convention on the Cooperation for the Protection and
Sustainable Use of the Danube River, signed in 1994 and entered into force
in 1999. Monitoring of the implementation of the Convention is the
responsibility of the International Commission for the Protection of the
Danube River (ICPDR), located in Vienna. Similarly, the six countries
bordering the Black Sea decided that joint action to save the Black Sea
was urgently needed, and in 1992, signed the Bucharest Convention for the
Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution (ratified in early 1994).
The Bucharest Convention was given additional impetus in 1993 by the
Odessa Ministerial Declaration on the Protection of the Black Sea
Environment, also endorsed by Bulgaria. Nutrient reduction is the highest
priority issue for both programs.Role of Bulgaria. The Danube River forms
the border between Bulgaria and its northern neighbor Romania for 472
kilometers (km) before continuing through Romania to the Black Sea. More
than half the area on the Bulgarian bank of the Danube is floodplain,
covering 1280 square km. Over the years, the wetlands and floodplain have
been drained or dyked to create arable land or as an anti-malaria
measure, such that today's wetlands cover only about 10t of the area that
existed at the turn of the century and hence cannot perform their original
ecological function. Although about half of the country drains into the
Danube River, Bulgaria is currently not the largest contributor of
nutrient loads to the river. The Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA)
undertaken under the Black Sea Environmental Program between 1993-99,
indicates that Bulgaria places third on the Black Sea riparian countries
in terms of the nitrogen (N) and phosphorous (P) contributions to the
Sea.Actions which Bulgaria might take to address the issue of
transboundary pollution have to be matched with a program addressing real
national priorities with national benefits in order to be politically and
financially justified. Government and local officials are eager to
integrate interventions which address transboundary pollution and global
biodiversity with efforts that help Bulgaria meet EU environmental
acquis. Other identified national benefits include opportunities for the
sustainable use of aquatic resource, providing income for local
communities. An approach which integrates global and national development
- 2 -



objectives increases the likelihood of long-term project success.Bulgaria
faces a number of issues as it attempts to meet its international
commitments to reduce nutrients and generally clean up the Danube/Black
Sea, and to comply with EU environmental acquis. These include:Water
quality and nutrient reduction. Water in Bulgaria is a scarce resource,
with per capita endowment less than half the average for European
countries. One third of the country faces permanent or seasonal water
shortages. Nitrogen content exceeds drinking water standards in a number
of rural settlements. The water scarcity problem is aggravated by
pollution from various sources, especially agricultural run-off,
inadequately treated urban wastewater, changes in hydrological conditions
and the decline of both quality and quality of aquatic ecosystems. The
underlying causes of the pollution include lack of financial resources for
the construction and operation of wastewater treatment plants with
tertiary treatment capacity in a number of Bulgarian towns, inappropriate
agricultural practices, industrial pollution, and to a lesser extent to
the present economic situation, low household incomes and poor financial
situation of wastewater companies. About 49t of all wastewater generated
(including 43t of industrial wastewater) is discharged directly into the
environment without any preliminary treatment. Nationwide, half of the
towns with population of over 50,000, and about 75t of the towns with a
population of over 10,000 people have no wastewater treatment plants
(WWTP). According to the TDA, Bulgaria contributes approximately 7,500
tons of N and 720 tons of P per year into the Danube. For the Black Sea,
the numbers are significantly higher: 2,480 tons of N and 693 tons of P
from domestic sources, and an additional 2,000 tons of N and 432 tons of P
from its rivers flowing into the Black Sea. Wetlands, in turn, can result
in retention and recycling of nutrients found in surface water flows, and
can offer cost-effective solutions for abatement of nitrogen and
phosphorus loads.Biodiversity conservation and wetland restoration.
Bulgaria is one of the most biodiversity-rich countries on the Danube. It
is the third richest European country from the point of view of animal and
plant diversity. The National Biodiversity Strategy (1994) as well as the
National Action Plan for the Conservation of the Most Important Wetlands
(1995) have identified priority areas for conservation and restoration of
wetlands, including areas of international importance such as nesting
sites of the Ferruginous Duck and the endangered Dalmatian Pelican. In
its efforts to develop a wetlands strategy consistent with EU directives
on habitats and the protection of wild birds, the Government has faced
opposition from some local community members who do not always appreciate
the importance of wetlands for conserving globally significant
biodiversity, for maintaining water quality, flood control and a variety
of other environmental services. In general, public opinion has favored
the draining of wetlands for other land uses -- Government's policy from
the 1950s to the 1980s.Protected areas management. Activities related to
nature protection are regulated by the Environmental Protection Law,
Forestry Law, the Protected Area Law (PAL), and the Hunting Law. While the
PAL stipulates procedures to prepare protected areas management plans,
development of these plans will require the integration of biodiversity
conservation with economic development with a participatory planning
process. Similarly, in order to gain acceptance from poor local
communities to reduce pressure on nature resources, there is a clear need
to identify and implement alternative income generating activities, to
undertake awareness raising programs, and to have park administrations
proactively foster sustainable economic activities within the project
-3 -



region.Government Strategy. Bulgaria's strategy for nutrient reduction,
biodiversity protection and agriculture and rural development has the
following objectives:Compliance with the EU Water Framework Directive.
The country will be required to achieve "good status" for the all surfaces
waters - measured not only by the water quality of its water bodies, but
also by the healthy functions of natural water ecosystems (including
transboundary river basins).
Compliance with the EU Habitats and Birds Directives. The country is
required to establish a network of effective protected areas covering
representative habitats which will become part of the European Nature 2000
network of protected areas upon EU accession.
Fulfill obligations under several international agreements to which the
county is a signatory. The country has committed itself to implement the
Strategic Action Plans of the Black Sea and Danube Conventions, which
includes participating in the development of a common Danube River Basin
Management Plan in the framework of the Danube Convention. Efforts to
restore water quality and water ecosystems are also relevant to the Ramsar
Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, especially as
waterfowl habitat, encouraging sustainable development and wise use of
natural resources in wetland areas. The Danube wetland complex within the
project sites is the most representative of riverine wetlands and of
international importance for waterfowl habitat.Achieve sustainable rural
development. The National Agriculture and Rural Development Plan 2000-06
aims for sustainable rural development consistent with the best
environmental practices, and calls for the promotion of
environmentally-friendly farming and environmental protection.Recent and
Planned Government Actions. The Government of Bulgaria has demonstrated a
commitment to improving nature protection and water quality.Water quality
and management. In 1999, the Bulgarian Parliament adopted a new Water Act
that reflects to a large extent the requirements of the EU Water Framework
Directive. The Water Act includes the elements on the planning, study and
management of the national and river basin levels and the administrations
that will be established to carry out these management responsibilities.
It introduces a more integrated approach to water management based on
river basin principles -- to ensure common management of surface and
groundwater according to quality and quantity, in order to achieve
sustainable use and protection of waters, water ecosystems, and wetlands.
Implementation of the Water Act requires institutional changes and new
skills to carry out modelling, planning and increased
monitoring.Investments in point-source pollution. The Government has
planned investments from the National Environmental Protection Fund for a
small number of priority wastewater treatment plans, identified according
to a set of criteria. Virtually all cities on Danube tributaries are
included in the National Program for priority construction of urban
wastewater treatment plants for cities above 10,000 inhabitants.
Financial resources however are far from sufficient to cover investment
costs. Nutrient reduction investments are not addressed specifically by
the plan. The Government will rely heavily on grants or soft loans from
international donors for the construction of wastewater treatment plans,
in particular the EU pre-accession funds -- Instrument for Structural
Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA). The high operation and maintenance
costs, which are rarely financed from outside sources, is a constraint for
the implementation of this program. Hence the government is very
interested in looking at low-cost technologies such as wetland restoration
as a means of reducing nutrient loads and meeting water quality
- 4 -



standards.Wetland restoration for biodiversity conservation and nutrient
reduction. The Government recognizes the multiple benefits of wetland
restoration: first, as a way to decrease transboundary pollution; second,
as a means of preserving globally significant biodiversity; and third, as
a possible source of revenue for local communities living in the poorer
regions of Bulgaria. By restoring the spawning grounds for fish, the
expectation is that the local fishing industry will make a comeback.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is that local communities and local
authorities in the Persina Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site
areas adopt sustainable natural resources management practices. The
project will help demonstrate how environmentally-friendly rural
development activities can improve livelihoods.The global environmental
objective is to demonstrate and provide for replication of reduction of
transboundary nutrient loads and other agricultural pollution flowing into
the Danube River and the Black Sea Basins while at the same time
conserving key target threatened species in the project areas through:
(i) wetlands restoration and protected areas management programs; and (ii)
support for stakeholders to adopt environmentally-friendly economic
activities in the two project areas.In support of these objectives, the
project will assist in: (i) the restoration of critical priority wetlands
in the Danube River basin and piloting the use of riparian wetlands as
nutrient traps; (ii) the establishment of comprehensive monitoring systems
for water quality and ecosystem health; (iii) support for protected areas
planning in Persina Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site; (iv)
strengthening capacity to protect and manage biodiversity and natural
resources; (v) building public awareness of sustainable natural resources
management and biodiversity conservation; and (vi) promoting and
supporting entrepreneurial and agricultural activities within the project
region which ensure the sustainability of natural resources and are
compatible biodiversity conservation objectives.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has assisted the Government formulate a strategy to comply with
EU environment legislation and to meet the expected high costs. The main
issue involves financing. The proposed project may provide an alternative
to high-cost investment in infrastructure if the expected improvements in
water quality from non-point source pollution are forthcoming. The Bank
is in a unique position to help the government synthesize experiences and
lessons learned from this project and from several other related projects
in the water and agriculture sectors (Agriculture Structural Adjustment
Loan, Land Cadastre), as well as its considerable experience in regional
integrated river basin planning and management, to help implement the new
water policy and assist the Government in its negotiations with the EU.
Secondly, the Bank plays an important role in helping coordinate donor
assistance. Given the number of donors assisting Bulgaria, this role is
needed to coordinate investments, technical assistance, and policy
advice. The Bank can do this within the context of the CAS and through
its regular participation in donor coordination dialogue.In addition, the
World Bank/GEF has built experience over the past decade involving
numerous coastal zone, wetland, water quality and protected areas
management projects related to the Black Sea and Danube River. Experience
garnered through such projects as the Ukraine Danube Biodiversity Project,
the Romania Danube Delta and Georgia Integrated Coastal Management
- 5-



Projects and coordination with the Black Sea Environment, Danube River
Basin Environment and Danube Pollution Reduction Programs is being shared
with newly started projects.
4. Description
The project will assist the Government of Bulgaria to: (i) restore
critical priority wetlands in the Danube river basin and make use of the
wetlands in riparian zones as nutrient traps; and (ii) promote protected
areas management and the sustainable use of natural resources, through
management planning, monitoring of water quality and ecosystem health,
public awareness/participation programs and environmental education.
Although the project only directly addresses the restoration of selected
priority wetlands in Bulgaria, these activities will play a critical
demonstration role within the region, promoting nutrient reduction
investments in other parts of Bulgaria and neighboring countries. A brief
description of each project component is provided below.
Component 1: Wetlands Restoration (Total: US$5.02 million, GEF: US$3.43
million, Other Donors (TBI): US$0.76 million, GoB: US$0.83 million). The
most innovative aspect of the proposed project, this component -- if
successful -- has a high replication value throughout Bulgaria and the
region. In the initial phase of this component, 2,340 ha of former
marshes will be restored in two already identified sites, Belene Island
within Persina Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Marshes within
Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site, to demonstrate the use of wetlands as
nutrient sinks. Additional sites are expected to be identified and
restored later during project implementation. Selection criteria for
these additional sites will include: ecological potential, floodplain
type, current land use, and nutrient reduction potential.
The GEF funds will finance consultancy services for the elaboration of
detailed engineering designs, baseline surveys, and the supervision of
construction as well as the civil works themselves for the two already
identified sites. The civil works will include both construction and
rehabilitation activities of small infrastructure which will regulate
water flows through the wetlands at the Belene Island and Kalimok/Brushlen
sites -- allowing for controlled flooding that optimizes nutrient
trapping, biodiversity restoration, fish production while minimizing the
risk of impacts to agricultural areas.
Grant support is being sought to finance activities related to the second
set of wetland sites to be restored under the project: consultant services
for additional site identification, pre-feasibility and feasibility
studies, design of restoration activities, and the necessary civil works
(including the supervision of their construction). Other than the two
sites already selected for restoration under the Project, the Bulgarian
"National Action Plan for the Conservation of the Most Important Wetlands
in Bulgaria" (1995) as well as the UNDP/GEF/WWF "Evaluation of Wetlands
and Floodplain Areas in the Danube River Basin" (1999) have identified
other critical wetland sites in need of restoration and protection based
on predominately their biodiversity value. The Project will assist the
GoB to undertake a re-assessment of identified priority wetlands, using a
broader range of criteria developed as "lessons learned" from the
preparation phase of the original two restoration sites, such as
nutrient-uptake potential and marginal cost (linking to the Nutrient
- 6 -



Reduction Strategy Guidelines Component) as well as social indicators
(current land-use and ownership patterns).
Component 2: Protected Areas Management (Total: US$7.37 million, GEF:
US$3.38 million, EU PHARE: US$1.59 million, Austria:US$0.38 million,
Farmers and Municipalities: US$0.15 million, GoB: US$1.87 million). This
component will support the next step towards the sustainable resource
management and protection within the two protected sites, Persina Nature
Park (21,700 ha) and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site (6,000 ha). Starting
with the preparation of protected areas management plans at the two sites,
the component will then move on to support the implementation of priority
actions identified within the management plan framework. Both the
wetlands restoration and protected areas management regimes will integrate
needs of the local communities with the biodiversity objectives of the two
protected areas. This component will include: (i) the development of
protected areas management plans in Persina Nature Park and
Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site; (ii) the implementation of priority
actions identified in these plans, including the management of the
restored wetlands and surrounding land (including the operation and
maintenance of the flood control infrastructure), establishment of a
contingency relief fund, establishment of a farmer transition support fund
to assist farmers make the transition to economic activities compatible
with conservation objectives and sustainable use of natural resources, and
the provision of technical support for development of "green" business;
(iii) strengthening monitoring programs for water quality, biodiversity,
socio-economic indicators, and health risks within the protected areas,
(iv) a public awareness and environmental education program, including a
small grant scheme for activities that promote biodiversity conservation;
(v) institutional strengthening for entities responsible for land/water
management to ensure sustainable management of the restored sites and
surrounding landscape; and (vii) developing strategic guidelines to
support the preparation of a nation-wide nutrient reduction strategy.
The GEF funds will finance consultancy services for the preparation of
nutrient reduction strategy guidelines, development of the contingency
relief and farmer transition support funds; study tours and field visits
to exchange experiences in protected areas and wetlands management and
sustainable development; formal training courses on wetlands restoration
and management, protected areas management, and sustainable use of natural
resources; equipment needs for the operation and maintenance of the
restored wetlands and the two park administrations; civil works for the
construction or rehabilitation of the park infrastructure (administration
and visitor center(s), trails, interpretation points); the demarcation of
park boundaries; and the organization of field visits to disseminate
project progress. In addition, the GEF will capitalize the small grant
scheme for biodiversity conservation, and the contingency relief and the
farmer transition support funds.
A parallel project (entitled Integrated Management Planning and
Administrative Capacity Building for Protected Wetlands Areas) to be
financed by EU PHARE through its National Environmental Program and the
Government of Bulgaria (thereafter the PHARE project), will provide
technical assistance for the elaboration of protected areas management
plans in Persina Nature Park (PNP) and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site
(KBPS), the environmental education program, and the strengthening of
-7 -



institutions relevant to protected areas and wetlands restoration. In
addition, the PHARE project will finance consultant services for the
design and supervision of the monitoring system as well as the training of
Bulgarian technicians to use it; training of protected areas
administration staff, local authorities, local communities, and NGOs on
issues relevant to protected areas management; elaboration of operational
rules, procedures and fund-raising plans for the park administrations;
elaboration of sustainable natural resources use programs. As part of
this project, the Ministry of Environment and Water will finance the
supply and installation of the equipment needed for the monitoring system.
The Austrian Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will
provide financial support to the Russe Business Support Center (BSC) for
Small and Medium Enterprises to support the development of green-business
proposals compatible with sustainable use of natural resources and
biodiversity conservation. The BSC with its two information centers in
the project sites will target its support to rural and urban clients
located within the boundaries of the protected areas. The Austrian
Government will finance consultancy services to carry out feasibility
studies of "green business" concepts and ideas. In addition to advice on
business plan development, three forms of financial support will be
provided: a machine leasing fund program, a small loans fund program, and
an investment fund program to foster the development of "green" small- and
medium-size enterprises.
Component 3: Project Coordination, Management and Monitoring (Total:
US$0.89 million, GEF: US$0.69 million, GoB: US$0.20 million). This
component will support a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) within the
Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW) in Sofia with field staff located
in Persina Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site to coordinate,
manage and monitor the activities under the project. The PCU will have
full responsibility for procurement, financial management, and
disbursement related to the activities funded by the GEF grant; financial
management reporting of overall project; monitoring/evaluation and
reporting of overall project progress implementation; coordination with
the Russe BSC and the PHARE-Unit within the MoEW responsible for project
activities supported through parallel financing; and coordination with
central ministries and their regional and local branches. Two full-time
Local PCU Liaison Officer (to be funded by the project) will facilitate
procurement of project related goods, works and services, coordination,
and reporting of project implementation at the local level. The Local PCU
Liaison Officers will provide assistance to the protected areas
administrations and will be hosted within their premises. The project
will provide funds to meet salaries and fees of the PCU staff and
technical advisors; incremental operating expenses of the PCU; engage
consultants to design and install a monitoring program for the evaluation
of project impacts; engage consultants to carry out impact evaluation
studies over the life of the project; and to finance auditing services
over the life of the project. The project will also provide funds for an
initial project launch workshop, followed by two procurement workshops,
and other workshops over the project period.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
-8-



BORROWER/RECIPIENT $2.90
IBRD
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $0.15
EC: PHARE $1.59
AUSTRIA, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR FED CHANCELLERY-DG DEV COOP) $0.38
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $7.50
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) $0.76
Total Project Cost $13.28
6. Implementation
Project Steering Committee. During Project preparation, the MoEW
coordinated the establishment of a high level Project Steering Committee
(PSC), which served as the principal forum for addressing inter-sectoral
issues relevant to project preparation activities. The PSC, which worked
well during project preparation, will continue operating through out
project implementation and will be responsible for providing overall
project oversight, advice and a bridge between the various agencies and
ministries -- ensuring coherence between the Project and existing/planned
activities of the various agencies. The PSC will also help to resolve any
issues which may arise during implementation. The PSC comprises
representatives from the MoEW, MoAF, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of
Economy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry
of Regional Development and Public Works, municipalities within project
sites, and NGOs. The Minister [or authorized Deputy Minister(s)] of the
Ministry of Environment and Water will continue chairing the PSC, with the
PCU serving as Secretariat. The Government will re-appoint the PSC to
review project progress, advise and assist in resolving obstacles to
project implementation. Local Consultative Councils (CCs) in Persina
Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site. The Management Concepts
for both establishment of the protected areas suggest the establishment of
local Consultative Councils (CCs) at the two protected areas sites to:
(i) discuss issues and formulate proposals concerning the state of the
park and its development; (ii) coordinate and ensure the compatibility of
the management plans with regional economic development plans; (iii)
ensure the interests of the local communities are represented during both
the planning and implementation of the protected areas management regimes;
(iv) discuss annual plans and accounts about activities of the park
administrations for the implementation of the protected areas management
regimes; and (v) assist in searching for funding sources for financing
nature-protection activities compatible with the management regime.
Specific functions will be listed in the Operational Manuals of the CCs.
Apart from providing oversight and reinforce coordination at the local
level during the preparation of the protected areas management plans, the
local CCs can also serve as a permanent mechanism for conflict-resolution
of natural resource management issues within the protected area
landscape. Studies carried out during the preparation stage suggested the
potential composition of the local CCs: representatives from the regional
administrations, the Regional Forestry Board, the Regional Inspectorates
of Environment and Water, municipalities, Forestry Units, scientific and
academic institutions and NGO, unions of land and forest owners, and local
media. The studies also suggested to appoint the Park Director as the
chairman of the local CC with the functions to convene and organize the
work of the local CC, to sign proceedings and other documents related to
the work of the local CC, and to implement the local CC recommendations.
-9-



Although, the PIP describes the general functions, recommended
representation and chairmanship of the CCs, the specific functions will be
listed in the Operational Manual of the CCs. Care should be observed in
the final selection of the chairmanship of the CCs so as to avoid creating
conflict of interest situations. The project will support the
establishment of these local CCs at the two project areas to advice the
MoEW and the protected areas management administrations on protected areas
management, to improve the usefulness of the investments and to ensure
that local stakeholders opinions and concerns are heard during the
management planning and implementation process. Throughout the Project,
the Government will ensure the maintenance of the local CCs to oversee and
reinforce coordination at the local level. Agreement has been reached on
the general functions, recommended representation and chairmanship of the
Consultative Councils that will be established to assist the Persina
Nature Park Directorate and the Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site
Administration, which will become an integral part of the Project
Implementation PlanProject Coordinating Unit. A Project Preparation Unit
(PPU) under the supervision of the MoEW was established during Project
preparation to handle day-to-day coordination and administration of the
Project's preparatory GEF. The PPU is now fully operational and will
become the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) once the implementation phase
begins. The PCU will have a central office in Sofia, two local liaison
officers, and significant physical presence at the two project sites. It
will be responsible for overall project coordination and management,
financial management activities as well as for implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan and Process Framework. All financial
management, procurement, disbursement procedures for the proposed
activities funded by the GEF grant will be implemented in accordance with
the relevant Bank guidelines. The PCU will also be responsible for
establishing and maintaining a comprehensive Project monitoring and
evaluation system during the life of the project. The monitoring will be
based in the significant amounts of baseline data collected and to be
collected during the preparatory/implementation phase and will be designed
so as to measure project performance against the intended outcomes of the
project -- social economic and ecological. The PCU will comprise a
Project Manager, an Accountant, a Financial Management Specialist, a
Procurement Specialist, a Database/GIS Management Specialist, Technical
Experts (on demand), a Grants Program Officer, two local Liaison Officers,
an Administrative/Technical Assistant, and a Driver. The local liaison
officers will assist the Persina Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen
Protected Site administrations in coordination associated with project
implementation, and in carrying procurement of goods, works and services
at the local levels under the oversight of the Procurement Specialist and
in accordance with Bank requirements. The Financial Management Specialist
and the Procurement Specialist will provide training to the staff of the
protected areas management administrations. The procurement and financial
management capacity of the two park administrations will be assessed at
the end of first year implementation, and depending on the results of the
assessment, responsibility for small procurement will be transferred to
them.Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation. In order to
ensure project sustainability and capacity building, the project will be
implemented by existing entities acting at the local or regional levels.
An implementation matrix, which clearly identifies functions and
responsibilities for project implementation, has been developed and is
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). In brief, the Persina
- 10 -



Nature Park Directorate and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site Administration
will guide and coordinate the preparation of the protected areas
management planning activities and the public awareness and education
program activities, will manage the Biodiversity Conservation Small Grant
Program as per the operational manual and under the supervision of the
PCU, will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of restored
wetlands and related protected sites, in close coordination with the
Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, the National Forestry Board, local municipalities (Nikopol,
Belene, Svishtov, Tutrakan, Slivo Pole), the Belene Prison Administration
and the Regional Forestry Boards (Lovech, Veliko Turnovo and Russe). The
Regional Inspectorates of Water and Environment (Pleven and Russe) will be
responsible for supervising the design and installation of the monitoring
equipment in close coordination with the protected areas management
administrations, the Regional Hygiene and Epidemiological Inspectorates,
and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry,
the research institutes of the Academy of Science (Zoological Institute
and Hydrometeorological Institute), the Executive Agency of Environment,
the National Center for Health and Epidemiology, local municipalities and
NGOs. The Russe Business Support Center will be responsible for the
implementation of the Eco-Business Development Support program in close
coordination with the PCU. The Ministry of Environment and Water through
the PHARE Unit (under the guidance of a Steering Committee) will be
responsible for the procurement, contracting, and disbursement of payments
related to the PHARE supported activities. A contractor to be hired under
the project will be responsible for the administration of the Farmer
Transition Support Fund under the close supervision of the PCU/grants
program officer. The Ministry of Environment and Water in close
coordination with the Belene Prison Administration, the protected areas
administrations, and the local municipalities will be responsible for the
wetlands restoration component. The Water Department of the MoEW will
take the lead in the coordination of activities towards the development of
the national strategic nutrient reduction guidelines. The MoEW/PCU
through the grants program officer and the local liaison officers and in
close coordination with the protected areas administration will be
responsible for the implementation of the Contingency Relief Fund.
Financial Management. The PCU will be responsible for all financial
management aspects of the Project. All financial management and
disbursement procedures will be in accordance with the relevant World Bank
guidelines. The Bulgarian Government, through the PCU, will establish and
maintain through the life of the project a project financial management
system (FMS) in a format acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with
OP/BP 10.02. Before project appraisal, a World Bank accredited Financial
Management Specialist performed a detailed assessment of the system in
accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the World Bank project
financial management requirements. The result of the assessment is that
the Project arrangements met the minimum World Bank financial management
requirements. Additional actions and steps agreed with the Government to
strengthen the system have been successfully completed, with the exception
of the appointment of the project auditor and accountant (expected by June
30, 2002).With regard to financial accounting and reporting, the PCU will
keep separate project accounts, by each financing source and by each
project component and activity. The project accounts will then be
consolidated in the accounting records of the MoEW, with the PCU
submitting detailed monthly reports to the MoEW accounting department.
- 11 -



The PCU will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in
accordance with formats agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The
Government expressed its preference to continue preparing the Project
Management Reports (PMRs), which are produced by the existing software
system as the FMRs. The FMRs will be submitted to the World Bank no later
than 45 days after each quarter's end. The first quarterly FMRs will be
submitted after the end of the quarter in which disbursements commence.
FMRs formats to be used by the Russe BSC and EU PHARE Unit will also be
designed to ensure compatibility with the Project financial requirements.
The frequency of reporting will be on a quarterly basis.With regard to
audit arrangements, the project annual financial statements will be
audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, based on terms of reference
agreed with the World Bank. Conclusion of a contract with selected
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness
in the Grant Agreement. Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to
the Bank within six months after the close of the fiscal year (calendar
year). The audit reports will cover the Project Financial Statements,
Special Account, as well as all the Statement of Expenses (SOEs). The
Russe BSC and EU PHARE-Unit will be required to submit copies of the
annual audit reports and supporting documents, which will be reviewed by
the Project's auditor.Disbursements from the Grant be made based on
traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Account with
reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). The
Government, through the MoEW will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA)
denominated in US Dollars at the Bulgarian National Bank. The PCU will
also use local project accounts for local contributions to the Project.A
detailed description of the financial management and accounting system
that will be used for the project is presented in Annex 6.Project
Monitoring and Evaluation. In order to ensure timely and successful
project implementation and continual feedback to enhance project's
impacts, a monitoring and evaluation system will be put in place.
Monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the PCU.
Monitoring will be based on the baseline surveys (i.e., environmental,
socio-economic) carried out during project preparation, the feedback from
the monitoring and evaluation system itself, additional surveys to be
carried out as part of the baseline studies, project objectives, intended
outcomes, as well as annual impact evaluation studies to be carried out
during the life of the project. A simple management information system
for project's monitoring and evaluation will be designed by the PCU,
including reporting formats for both the wetlands restoration and the
protected areas management components and the monitoring indicators listed
in Annex 1. Quarterly and consolidated annual reports including the use
of project funds and project impacts will be prepared by the PCU.
Significant supervision by qualified Bank staff will be conducted during
the start-up phase. A mid-term review will be carried out to assess
overall project progress, identify lessons learned and disseminate good
practices. This process will be closely coordinated with the review of
similar projects in the Danube and Black Sea Programs to allow for maximum
benefits and sharing of knowledge.
7. Sustainability
The long-term sustainability of project benefits is linked to the adequate
- 12 -



management and maintenance of the restored wetlands and associated
protected areas, and adoption of economic activities compatible with
nature conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. Management
and maintenance will require sufficient institutional and financial
resources. The project makes provisions for strengthening the capacity of
local and regional implementing institutions as well as local
administrations to ensure they acquire the needed managerial and technical
skills and capabilities. A provision is also made to support incremental
operation and maintenance costs of implementing agencies on a declining
basis while developing financial mechanisms to finance protected areas
basic maintenance costs. Project sustainability will be enhanced by
actively involving local institutions in project implementation and by
supporting the development and implementation of comprehensive management
plans that link wetlands restoration and nature conservation objectives
with sustainable socio-economic development and tangible benefits for the
local people. The project will support for ongoing demonstration of the
economic. environmental and social benefits from the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from wetlands restoration and pollution abatement programs in
Europe and around the world suggest that:The early involvement in project
concept design of key stakeholders from across the water, agriculture, and
environment sectors as well as of local communities is essential in order
to ensure ownership, build lasting commitment and achieve successful
project implementation.The rationale, benefits and objectives of the
project should be made known to all stakeholders, if not through active
participation, then through effective public awareness programs. The
benefits of sustainable land use need to be demonstrated and the results
widely disseminated.Problems should be solved jointly with clients and not
for them. Capacity and skills transfer can only be achieved by working
with clients, to do otherwise is to leave solutions that are
unsustainable.Maintaining support for central governmental units, but
emphasizing decentralized responsibility for financial and project
management (e.g. Romania's Danube Delta Biodiversity and Agricultural
Pollution Control Projects) helps to build local ownership and
sustainability of project activities. Socio-economic and regional
development issues need to be carefully considered in the design of the
project, which in turn should provide support for the integration of
environmental and sustainable development principles into regional
planning exercises.Early on, the project needs to focus on activities
which promote replication, sustainability and resource mobilization beyond
the life of the project.Continuity in supervision responsibility
contributes greatly to the relationship between the Bank and its
client.World Bank experience with the Bulgaria country portfolio indicates
that:In order to avoid delays in disbursements, forward planning of budget
needs to be ensured early in project preparation and carefully monitored
during each of Bulgaria's budget years.Significant effort must be
undertaken to ensure project management capacity is adequate to permit
implementation of complex activities and policy measures with efficacy and
speed.While direct participation of sector ministries is essential for the
implementation of individual projects, successful implementation relies
heavily on good relationships and cooperation from central units such as
the Ministry of Finance when it comes to dealing with issues such as
counterpart funding, VAT, financial management, approval processes and
procedures, technical exchange of views on legislation. The proposed
- 13 -



program will incorporate these experiences and build on them, specifically
by: (i) continuing the inclusive and participatory approach; (ii)
effectively communicating the purpose and progress of the program to
stakeholders through a public awareness campaign; and (iii) building
national and local capacity for sustainable management of wetlands.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project will finance the restoration of former
marshes along the Danube. The major environmental objective of the
Project is to reduce the amount of nutrients flowing into the Black Sea.
The Project is expected to be environmentally beneficial. No new structure
of significant size will be built under the project and no major adverse
environmental impacts are expected. Given the nature of the restoration
work, the project has been classified as environmental category "B." This
classification is consistent with Bulgarian environmental impact
assessment regulations and the requirements of the World Bank outlined in
Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. Consistent with
the provisions of OP 4.01 and Bulgarian environmental legislation, notably
the Protected Areas Act (1998, 1999, 2000), the Regulation No 4/2001 on
Environmental Impact Assessment, the Water Act (1999), an Environmental
Assessment (EA) was carried out during the preparation phase based on the
technical information provided by the Project Preparation Unit of the
Ministry of Environment and Water and its consultants. A combination of
quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques, ranging from
desk-based analysis, to water and social surveys, have been undertaken.
The conclusions of the environmental impact assessment are that provided
mitigation measures described in the Environmental Management Plan, the
proposed project is in compliance with the environmental requirements of
both the Government of Bulgaria and the World Bank with respect to
restoration developments of this nature.The Environmental Assessment
contains a description of existing environmental conditions at the two
project sites, including climate, hydrology, soil and water quality,
groundwater and biodiversity and assesses the impacts on these conditions
from implementation of the project, during the construction and operation
phases. A number of mitigation and monitoring activities have been
identified as part of an environmental management plan, in order to
address these impacts and to provide adequate safeguards for the
environment. A brief analysis was conducted of a number of technical
alternatives to the proposed restoration schemes, including the
non-restoration alternative. The no-restoration alternative was found to
be nonviable from an environmental point of view. Other technical
alternatives were founded nonviable from a technical point of view.Five
restoration alternatives were assessed for Belene Island. In general, the
idea of regulating the proposed level of flooding of this project area at
20 meters above sea level, as is provided for 4 of the proposed technical
alternatives, is supported by the environmental assessment. Although a
higher level (21 m) would be desirable to provide a much larger wetland
area (2,070 ha, compared with only 1,290 ha), high flood levels are
available for only a few days of the year. Pumping would be excessively
costly and, in fact, unable to maintain such a level in view of the porous
nature of the subsoil. The proposed level of flooding of 20 m would ensure
a flooding duration of 50-60 days annually, which is entirely sufficient
from an ecological point of view. Two of the analyzed technical
- 14 -



alternatives propose to intake water from the southern part of the Belene
island, which is not desirable from an environmental point of view because
of the potential hot water emission in the future from the Belene Nuclear
Power Plant, whose construction was initiated and stopped. Any of the
other two alternatives that propose the entry of water from the northern
part of the island will be a preferred option. The environmental
assessment supports the northern alternatives, but with additional
internal dykes protecting agricultural lands to the west of the wetlands.
This recommendation should be supported with a much more detailed
technical design in order to evaluate the risk of bogging and salinization
of agricultural land. An evaluation should be made of the way in which the
draining system should function in the western part of the island, which
is used for economic activities and of the risk for the existing
infrastructure and buildings.Three restoration alternatives were assessed
for Kalimok marshes. The recommendation of flooding to 14 m above the sea
level is accepted by the environmental assessment, which would ensure a
flooding duration of 60 days annually. Artificial maintenance of the level
of the marshes by means of pumps (as is proposed for both alternative)
will be unsustainable. The assessment supports that most of the existing
dykes should be kept in their current position, so that the flooding
regime will be mostly controlled by the sluices. The sluices should be
designed taking into account the possibility for migration of fish species
from the lower stretch of the Danube. If needed, they should be equipped
with adequate fish ladders. The EA identified the following potential
negative impacts of the project: (i) there is a risk that reduced
pollution and increased fish stocks as a result of wetland restoration
activities will not materialized; (ii) there is risk of indirect flooding
and raising groundwater levels on arable and non-arable land, buildings,
irrigation and drainage structures, roads, and other infrastructure; (iii)
there is a health risk associated with the potential increase in mosquito
population, malaria risk and fish contamination; and (iv) disposing of
excavated soils. Other issues relate to the impacts on biodiversity,
habitats and rare species caused by contractors during the construction
phase.As part of the environmental assessment process, public
consultations were held during the preparation of the EA with several
stakeholders at the local levels in three phases. First, consultation
with stakeholders were organized during the initial stage, which helped to
identify key social/environmental issues and provided information on
stakeholders' concerns about, and views of, potential environmental
impacts.[The same team that conducted the environmental assessment also
conducted the social assessment.] Prior to the public disclosure of the
draft EIA, the second phase of consultation consisted of public meetings
at the two project sites, to share with all interested stakeholders the
key findings of the assessment and the proposed mitigation and management
options. Upon the public disclosure of the draft final EIA, public
hearings were organized in the two project sites. During the consultation
process, local populations did not voice any major concerns about the
project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rita E. Cestti
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
- 15 -



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-3473
Fax:   (202) 614-3473
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 17, 2002.
- 16 -



