Report No. 23779
Report No: I068858 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/28/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BULGARIA        Project ID: P068858
Project: Wetlands Restoration and Pollution Reduction Project     Task Team
Leader: Rita E. Cestti
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 28, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 13, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Department       Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project development objective is that local communities and local
authorities in the Persina Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site
areas adopt sustainable natural resources management practices. The
project will help demonstrate how environmentally-friendly rural
development activities can improve livelihoods.
The global environmental objective is to demonstrate and provide for
replication of reduction of transboundary nutrient loads and other
agricultural pollution flowing into the Danube River and the Black Sea
Basins while at the same time conserving key target threatened species in
the project areas through: (i) wetlands restoration and protected areas
management programs, and (ii) support for stakeholders to adopt
environmentally-friendly economic activities in the two project areas.
In support of these objectives, the project will assist in: (i) the
restoration of critical priority wetlands in the Danube River basin and
piloting the use of riparian wetlands as nutrient traps; (ii) the
establishment of comprehensive monitoring systems for water quality and
ecosystem health; (iii) support for protected areas planning in Persina
Nature Park and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site; (iv) strengthening
capacity to protect and manage biodiversity and natural resources; (v)
building public awareness of sustainable natural resources management and
biodiversity conservation; and (vi) promoting and supporting
entrepreneurial and agricultural activities within the project region
which ensure the sustainability of natural resources and are compatible
biodiversity conservation objectives.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will assist the Government of Bulgaria to: (i) restore
critical priority wetlands in the Danube river basin and make use of the
wetlands in riparian zones as nutrient traps; and (ii) promote protected
areas management and the sustainable use of natural resources, through
management planning, monitoring of water quality and ecosystem health,
public awareness/participation programs and environmental education.



Although the project only directly addresses the restoration of selected
priority wetlands in Bulgaria, these activities will play a critical
demonstration role within the region, promoting nutrient reduction
investments in other parts of Bulgaria and neighboring countries. A brief
description of the project components is provided next:
Component 1: Wetlands Restoration (Total: US$5.14 million, GEF: US$3.42
million, Others (TBI): US$0.86 million). The most innovative aspect of the
proposed project, this component -- if successful -- has a high
replication value throughout Bulgaria and the region. In the initial phase
of this component, 2,340 ha of former marshes will be restored in two
already identified sites, Belene Island within Persina Nature Park and
Kalimok/Brushlen Marshes within Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site, to
demonstrate the use of wetlands as nutrient sinks. Additional sites are
expected to be identified and restored later during project
implementation. Selection criteria for these additional sites will
include: ecological potential, floodplain type, current land use, and
nutrient reduction potential.
The GEF funds will finance consultancy services for the elaboration of
detailed engineering designs, baseline surveys, and the supervision of
construction as well as the civil works themselves. The civil works will
include both construction and rehabilitation activities of small
infrastructure which will regulate waterflows through the wetlands at the
Belene Island and Kalimok/Brushlen sites -- allowing for controlled
flooding that optimizes nutrient trapping, biodiversity restoration, fish
production while minimizing the risk of impacts to agricultural areas.
The Danish Cooperation for Environment in Eastern Europe (DANCEE) under
the Ministry of Environment and Energy of Denmark has expressed interest
to finance activities related to the second set of wetland sites to be
restored: consultant services for additional site identification,
pre-feasibility and feasibility studies, design of restoration activities,
and the necessary civil works (and supervision of their construction).
[Due to the recent reorganization at the Danish Government, all DANCEE
funds have been moved to a reserve budget line, and the future of DANCEE
is uncertain at present. Given the uncertainty on the Danish support, the
Government of Bulgaria is looking for alternative funding sources.] Other
than the two sites already selected for restoration under the Project, the
Bulgarian "National Action Plan for the Conservation of the Most Important
Wetlands in Bulgaria" (1995) as well as the UNDP/GEF/WWF "Evaluation of
Wetlands and Floodplain Areas in the Danube River Basin" (1999) have
identified other critical wetland sites in need of restoration and
protection based on predominately their biodiversity value. The Project
will assist the GoB to undertake a re-assessment of identified priority
wetlands, using a broader range of criteria developed as "lessons learned"
from the preparation phase of the original two restoration sites, such as
nutrient-uptake potential and marginal cost (linking to the Nutrient
Reduction Strategy Guidelines Component) as well as social indicators
(current land-use and ownership patterns).
Component 2: Protected Areas Management (Total: US$7.04 million, GEF:
US$3.16 million, PHARE: US$2.35 million, Austria:US$0.38 million). This
component will support the next step towards the sustainable resource
management and protection within the two protected sites, Persina Nature
-2 -



Park (22,000 ha) and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site (6,000 ha). Starting
with the preparation of protected areas management plans at the two sites,
the component will then move on to support the implementation of priority
actions identified within the management plan framework. Both the wetlands
restoration and protected areas management regimes will integrate needs of
the local communities with the biodiversity objectives of the two
protected areas. This component will include: (i) the development of
protected areas management plans in Persina Nature Park and
Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site; (ii) the implementation of priority
actions identified in these plans, including the management of the
restored wetlands and surrounding land (including the operation and
maintenance of the flood control infrastructure), establishment of a
contingency relief fund, establishment of a support program to assist
farmers in transitioning to environmentally-friendly agricultural
practices, and the provision of technical support for development of
"green" business; (iii) strengthening monitoring programs for water
quality, biodiversity and social indicators within the protected areas,
(iv) a public awareness and environmental education program, including a
small grant scheme for activities that promote biodiversity conservation;
(v) institutional strengthening for entities responsible for land/water
management to ensure sustainable management of the restored sites and
surrounding landscape, and (vii) developing strategic guidelines to
support the preparation of a nation-wide nutrient reduction strategy.
The GEF funds will finance consultancy services for the preparation of
nutrient reduction strategy guidelines, development of the contingency
relief and farmer transition funds; study tours and training on wetlands
restoration and management; equipment needs for the operation and
maintenance of the restored wetlands and the two park administrations;
civil works for the construction or rehabilitation of the park
infrastructure (administration and visitor center(s), trails,
interpretation points); the demarcation of park boundaries; and the
organization of field visits to disseminate project progress. In addition,
the GEF will capitalize the grant scheme for biodiversity conservation,
and the contingency relief and the farmer transition support funds.
PHARE, through its National Environmental Program, will finance technical
assistance for the preparation of protected areas management plans in
Persina Nature Park (PNP) and Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site (KBPS), the
environmental education program, and the strengthening of institutions
relevant to protected areas and wetlands restoration. In addition, it will
finance consultant services for the design and supervision of the
monitoring system as well as the training of Bulgarian technicians to use
it; training of protected areas administration staff, local authorities,
local communities, and NGOs on issues relevant to protected areas
management; and equipment needed for the monitoring system; and study
tours and field visits to exchange experiences in protected areas and
wetlands management and sustainable development.
The Austrian Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will
provide financial support to the Russe Business Support Center (BSC) for
Small and Medium Enterprises, with the expectation that two branches in
the two project sites will be established. This will allow the BSC to
support the development of green-business proposals compatible with
biodiversity conservation. The BSC will target its support to rural and
- 3-



urban clients located within the boundaries of the two project sites. In
addition to advice on business plan development, three forms of support
are expected: a machine leasing fund program, a small loans fund program,
and an investment fund program. In addition, the Austrian Government will
finance consultancy services to carry out feasibility studies of "green
business" concepts and ideas.
Component 3: Project Coordination, Management and Monitoring (Total:
US$1.10 million, GEF US$0.92 million). This component will support a
tripartite Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) located within the Ministry of
Environment and Water (MoEW). A unit in Sofia will be responsible for
central and/or larger procurement and financial management activities,
disbursement, reporting, coordination with central ministries and the
monitoring/evaluation of overall project implementation. Each of the
protected areas administrations will be served by a Local Coordinator and
a technical expert, responsible for small procurement, local coordination
associated with project implementation and reporting to the PCU-Sofia.
The project will provide funds to meet the salaries and operating costs of
the PCU; design and install a monitoring program for the evaluation of
project impacts; engage consultants to carry out impact evaluation studies
over the life of the project; and to finance auditing services over the
life of the project. The project will also provide funds for an initial
project launch workshop, followed by two procurement workshops, and other
workshops over the project period.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Belene Island sits within the Persina Nature Park covering about
22,000 hectares (ha), located along the Svishtov - Belene lowlands. The
total population connected to the Persina Nature Park is about 49,970
inhabitants, including the municipalities of Nikopol (Nikopol town with
5,100 inhabitants and Dragash Voyvoda village with 930 inhabitants),
Belene (Belene town with 9,830 inhabitants) and Svishtov (Svishtov town
with 31,800 inhabitants and Oresh village with 2,310 inhabitants). Most
of the land in the area, regardless of ownership, is used for agriculture
purposes. Other land uses are forestry and fishery. Within Persina Nature
Park, the project will support the wetland restoration on eastern Belene
Island, a 15 km long island, the western portion of which is currently
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice which operates a prison
on this side, while the eastern portion is a managed Nature Reserve under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment and Waters. Kalimok
marshes, within the Kalimok/Brushlen Protected Site covering about 6,000
ha, is located 60 kilometers east of Ruse. The total population connected
to the Kalimok/Brushlen Marshes Protected Site is about 23,140, including
the municipalities of Slivo Pole (Ryahovo village with 2,250 inhabitants,
Golyamo Vranovo village with 2,190 inhabitants, Bobovo village with 710
inhabitants and Brushlen village with 560 inhabitants) and Tutrakan (Tzar
Samuil village with 1,900 inhabitants, Novo Cherna village with 2,250
inhabitants, Staro Selo village with 1,480 inhabitants, and Tutrakan town
with 11,800 inhabitants). As on the case of Persina Nature Park, most of
the land is used for agriculture purpose. Up until the 1950's, the marsh
complex was a key part of the region's valuable fish resources. In the
1950's, a dyke was constructed between Ruse and Tutrakan for agricultural
- 4 -



purposes, which cut off fish from their historical spawning grounds. Fish
ponds (encircling 560 ha of state-owned land) were constructed, but they
were declared bankrupt and abandoned after the collapse of the state
farming system. Most of the original marshlands proposed for restoration
are state-owned, and have reverted to reed beds. Adjacent areas are
privately and municipality-owned and used for agriculture of varying
productivity levels -- while western part of the area is mainly in private
or local government ownership, the eastern area is mainly in state
ownership.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project will finance the restoration of former marshes along
the Danube. The major environmental objective of the Project is to reduce
the amount of nutrients flowing into the Black Sea. The Project is
expected to be environmentally beneficial. No new structure of significant
size will be built under the project and no major adverse environmental
impacts are expected. Given the nature of the restoration work, the
project has been classified as environmental category "B."    This
classification is consistent with Bulgarian environmental impact
assessment regulations and the requirements of the World Bank outlined in
Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. Consistent with
the provisions of OP 4.01 and Bulgarian environmental legislation, notably
the Protected Areas Act (1998, 1999, 2000), the Regulation No 4/2001 on
Environmental Impact Assessment, the Water Act (1999), an Environmental
Assessment (EA) was carried out during the preparation phase based on the
technical information provided by the Project Preparation Unit of the
Ministry of Environment and Water and its consultants. A combination of
quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques, ranging from
desk-based analysis, to water and social surveys, have been undertaken.
The conclusions of the environmental impact assessment are that provided
mitigation measures described in the Environmental Management Plan, the
proposed project is in compliance with the environmental requirements of
both the Government of Bulgaria and the World Bank with respect to
restoration developments of this nature.
The Environmental Assessment contains a description of existing
environmental conditions at the two project sites, including climate,
hydrology, soil and water quality, groundwater and biodiversity and
assesses the impacts on these conditions from implementation of the
project, during the construction and operation phases. A number of
mitigation and monitoring activities have been identified as part of an
environmental management plan, in order to address these impacts and to
provide adequate safeguards for the environment. A brief analysis was
conducted of a number of technical alternatives to the proposed
restoration schemes, including the non-restoration alternative. The
no-restoration alternative was found to be nonviable from an environmental
point of view. Other technical alternatives were founded nonviable from a
technical point of view.
Five restoration alternatives were assessed for Belene Island. In general,
the idea of regulating the proposed level of flooding of this project area
at 20 meters above sea level, as is provided for 4 of the proposed
technical alternatives, is supported by the environmental assessment.
Although a higher level (21 m) would be desirable to provide a much larger
wetland area (2,070 ha, compared with only 1,290 ha), high flood levels
are available for only a few days of the year. Pumping would be
excessively costly and, in fact, unable to maintain such a level in view
- 5-



of the porous nature of the subsoil. The proposed level of flooding of 20
m would ensure a flooding duration of 50-60 days annually, which is
entirely sufficient from an ecological point of view. Two of the analyzed
technical alternatives propose to intake water from the southern part of
the Belene island, which is not desirable from an environmental point of
view because of the potential hot water emission in the future from the
Belene Nuclear Power Plant, whose construction was initiated and stopped.
Any of the other two alternatives that propose the entry of water from the
northern part of the island will be a preferred option. The environmental
assessment supports the northern alternatives, but with additional
internal dykes protecting agricultural lands to the west of the wetlands.
This recommendation should be supported with a much more detailed
technical design in order to evaluate the risk of bogging and salinization
of agricultural land. An evaluation should be made of the way in which the
draining system should function in the western part of the island, which
is used for economic activities and of the risk for the existing
infrastructure and buildings.
Three restoration alternatives were assessed for Kalimok marshes. The
recommendation of flooding to 14 m above the sea level is accepted by the
environmental assessment, which would ensure a flooding duration of 60
days annually. Artificial maintenance of the level of the marshes by means
of pumps (as is proposed for both alternative) will be unsustainable. The
assessment supports that most of the existing dykes should be kept in
their current position, so that the flooding regime will be mostly
controlled by the sluices. The sluices should be designed taking into
account the possibility for migration of fish species from the lower
stretch of the Danube. If needed, they should be equipped with adequate
fish ladders.
The EA identified the following potential negative impacts of the project:
(i) there is a risk that reduced pollution and increased fish stocks as a
result of wetland restoration activities will not materialized; (ii) there
is risk of indirect flooding and raising groundwater levels on arable and
non-arable land, buildings, irrigation and drainage structures, roads, and
other infrastructure; (iii) there is a health risk associated with the
potential increase in mosquito population, malaria risk and fish
contamination; and (iv) disposing of excavated soils. Other issues relate
to the impacts on biodiversity, habitats and rare species caused by
contractors during the construction phase.
As part of the environmental assessment process, public consultations were
held during the preparation of the EA with several stakeholders at the
local levels in three phases. First, consultation with stakeholders were
organized during the initial stage, which helped to identify key
social/environmental issues and provided information on stakeholders'
concerns about, and views of, potential environmental impacts.[The same
team that conducted the environmental assessment also conducted the social
assessment.] Prior to the public disclosure of the draft EIA, the second
phase of consultation consisted of public meetings at the two project
sites, to share with all interested stakeholders the key findings of the
assessment and the proposed mitigation and management options. Upon the
public disclosure of the draft final EIA, public hearings were organized
in the two project sites. During the consultation process, local
populations did not voice any major concerns about the project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
- 6 -



Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental Assessment: The GEF Grant Agreement will include a covenant
calling for the implementation of the EMP. The Bank will monitor the
adherence to the EMP as part of its supervision activities.
Involuntary Resettlement: The Project has been and will continue to be
specifically designed so that no involuntary physical displacement or
relocation of people would be necessary. Design parameters include flood
elevations that do not encroach on private lands and minimize impacts to
groundwater (levels and quality) and crops as well as road access. The
management plans for the protected areas may identify the need for new
zoning and increased enforcement of existing laws within the protected
areas to ensure sustainability of natural resources. The Social Assessment
confirms these findings. A Process Framework (Annex 12) identifies how the
Project will ensure compliance with this safeguard policy. The Bank will
also monitor the adherence to Process Framework as part of its supervision
activities.
Projects on International Waters: As there will be no net extraction of
waters from the Danube, and no negative impact on water quality (on the
contrary, the project is designed to reduce the nutrient loads into the
Black Sea by about 220-810 tons of nitrogen and 24-37 tons of phosphorus
per year), OP 7.05 on Project on International Waters is not triggered.
As a good member of the International Commission for the Protection of the
Danube River (ICPDR), and since the Project is part of the Joint Action
Program for the Danube River Basin (January 2001 - December 2005), the
Government of Bulgaria has introduced the Project for discussion and
approval by the ICPDR (February 2002). The proposed project along other
projects for wetlands restoration and floodplain restoration has been
approved by the Heads of delegations. The Heads have also stated their
no-objection to the Joint Action Program including the proposed projects.
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
-7 -



activities in the project area.
The restoration of wetlands at Kalimok/Brushlan Protected Site may result
in the indirect impacts on municipal and private land under production.
The indirect impacts may cause some long-term hardship and impoverishment
unless appropriate measures are carefully planned and carried out. The
management plan put in place for Kalimok/Brushlan Protected Site may
result in the development of new land use rules.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The project will support the establishment of a Contingency Relief Fund
that can be used, if necessary, to provide relief to households that
experience a temporary decrease in income or quality of life as a result
of restoration activities. Permanent relief is provided through the Farmer
Transition Fund, which gives priority support to long term solutions that
mitigate the negative indirect impacts of the flooding.
Annex 12 in the PAD provides a Process Framework for mitigating potential
indirect adverse impacts on livelihoods. This Process Framework will be
implemented in accordance with OP 4.12. The Process Framework includes
measures to address limitations placed on resources extraction in the
protected areas. Principles of participation and stakeholder consultations
with be applied in the detail design of the restoration work and
preparation of the protected areas management plans.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The GEF Grant Agreement will include covenants calling for the
implementation of the EMP and the Framework Process. Wide participation of
local communities will be ensured during the detailed design of the
restoration work and the preparation of the protected areas management
plans. Terms of reference for these two consultancy services calls for the
involvement of local communities and adoption of a participatory planning
approach.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Local communities, authorities and farmers will be fully informed of all
restoration activities and their timing through the public information
campaign. The risk of negative impacts on these farmers is considered
minimal. Villagers and local authorities will continue to participate in
the project throughout implementation, contributing to the development of
protected area management plans and identifying impact mitigation
measures. Staff of the protected areas administrations responsible for
implementation will receive training on methods to encourage and manage
community involvement. Local and national NGOs will be involved in
monitoring implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
- 8-



safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              12/15/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/30/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/14/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)                2/14/2002
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why. Not Applicable
Signed and submitted by     Name            Date
Task Team Leader:           Rita E. Cestti  February 26, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Julian A. Lampietti    February 26, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Stefan Schwager        February 26, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   February 27, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Marjory-Anne Bromhead    February 27, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-9-



