Report No. PID7940
Project Name                     Georgia-Education System Realignment and...
Strengthening Program
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           EE - Education
Project                          GEPE52441
Borrower(s)                      Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                July 1, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         February 7, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 5, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The first years of Georgia's independence were marked by internal armed
conflicts, secessionist movements in South Ossetia and Abkhazia and a brief
civil war. The economy collapsed, real wages fell by 90 percent, health and
education and poverty indicators worsened as a result of drastic cuts in
public expenditures. In mid-1994 the Government embarked on a comprehensive
reform program, with the support of the IMF and the World Bank. Since then,
successful structural reforms had been undertaken to enable private sector
development, accompanied by liberalization of prices and trade, downsizing of
budget sector employees, small scale privatization, establishment of a basic
legal framework, as well as land, banking, and energy sector reforms. Thanks
to the combination of sound fiscal and monetary policies and important
strides in the development of the structural reform agendas, real economic
growth resumed in 1995 and exceeded 10 percent in 1997. However, the
economic and financial situation deteriorated significantly in 1998 due to a
combination of internal factors and external shocks. The current Bank
assisted strategy seeks to consolidate past accomplishments, correct the
growing macroeconomic imbalances, strengthen the economy's capacity to
address the shocks stemming from the Russian crisis and maintain it on a
sustainable high growth path, and ensure the provision of basic social
services to vulnerable groups. The program focuses on strengthening public
finance, diversifying sources of growth, protecting the environment, and
reducing poverty. The deterioration in the quality and access to education
services is seen as a major barrier to long-term growth and condemning at
least one generation to continued poverty.
The sharp decline in funding that the education sector experienced in Georgia
has been one of the most severe in the region and unique in the history of
education systems worldwide. The state budget for the sector in 1996 was
only 5w-in real terms-of what it had been in 1989. This was a consequence of
the overall 75t decline of GDP between 1991 and 1994 and the decline of the
share of education within it, from more than 7t in 1991 to less than 1 in
1994. Since 1995 a modest recovery has taken place, public education
expenditure has been multiplied by 4 between 1995 and 1998 and their share in



the total amount of public expenditure has gone form 6.7% to 11.3%.
Nonetheless, education's share of GDP remains low by international standards
at 1.7% in 1998.
While the limited funding has serious implications for education quality,
teacher salaries, access to learning materials and maintenance of school
facilities, the challenges the education system encounters today in Georgia
would not be solved only by bringing in additional financial resources.
Deeper structural reforms are needed in order to meet the new demands of a
market economy and a democratic society. A summary presentation of the
critical issues to be addressed follows.
Misalignment of education system objectives. Every nation faces the
challenge to define what the goals of education should be and how to educate
its children. Since goals are contextually determined, as a country's socio-
political and economic context evolve, so do education goals. What was
defined as desirable education outcomes during the Soviet system may not
necessarily be the same as what is desirable today in Georgia. In the past,
the external efficiency of the vocational/technical education and higher
education sub-systems were virtually perfect because the State employer
specified its manpower requirements and guaranteed employment in the field of
study to all those educated/trained under the State system, something that
does not happen today. The Government has recognized that this is no longer a
proper measure of efficiency and has to find a new system for setting
objectives for each education level in light of new market and society
demands. The Government has begun to address this issue. In secondary
education, new subjects like Religion and Culture have been introduced, more
hours to foreign language instruction have been added, the hours allocated to
Russian language have been reduced and the hours for Humanities increased.
In addition, one of the major initiatives has been the development of new
minimum content curriculum standards for all subjects in basic education.
These new standards show an awareness of the importance of developing
students skills in addition to factual knowledge. However, they require
further work to be truly effective in guiding the process to the expected and
desirable learning outcomes. The new standards still reflect a highly
overloaded and fragmented curriculum that provides limited time to foster the
skills expected to enable students to be critical thinkers and problem
solvers, has a strong emphasis on inputs rather than outcomes, shows no
indications for different levels of student achievement and provides no
guidance for teachers on how to implement them. The VET curriculum has
remained untouched so far. In higher education, many university departments
do not state explicitly what their aims and objectives are. The absence of
clear mission statements makes it impossible to evaluate performance because
there is no benchmark against which operations or outcomes could be measured.
Teaching practices not aligned with new standards. In the past, teachers
were trained to deliver one curriculum that reflected a very positivist view
of knowledge, where there was only one truth and that was contained in a
single textbook. Students were seen as passive recipients whose major duty
was to absorb all factual knowledge that the teacher presented during the
lesson. A good student was one who could memorize and repeat the lesson. As
a result of this model, direct observation of Georgian classrooms today show
that regardless of grade, subject, region or urban/rural distinction a
similar teaching pattern is followed. A typical lesson (40-50 minutes)
starts with the teacher taking attendance, follows with the teacher going
- 2-



over homework answers, then the teacher proposes more exercises or asks
questions, then introduces a new concept/lesson following word by word the
textbook, then the lessons ends with more homework assigned. The students
during the lesson are expected to copy, repeat, recall, compare and apply
formulas. This kind of teaching can be described as of low cognitive
complexity, centered on the text and not on its transferring potential, good
enough for children to obtain high marks in international tests that assess
those skills but not good enough for fostering higher cognitive skills such
as understanding and developing critical and independent thinking. A similar
patter is also observed in higher education, where students overwhelmingly
report teaching that does not invite their input or feedback.
The goals expressed in the new standards present enormous challenges to
current teaching practices. Reflecting a more constructivist view of
knowledge, in order to meet those new goals, teachers are expected to become
facilitators of the student individual process of knowledge generation. This
requires teachers that have expertise in the subject discipline but that also
have a set of skills to be able to guide students in their individual search.
It also requires a supportive environment that assists the teacher and
provides on-going opportunities for discussion and reflection among
colleagues. In addition to the changes required in practices and beliefs,
the present situation of teacher qualifications in Georgia is not optimal and
shows considerable variation on the availability of highly qualified teachers
among regions, levels of education, subjects, and type of schools. The
results of the recent teacher certification show that regions like Mtkheta-
Mtianeti, Achara, Kakheti, Racha Lechkhumi and Guria have consistently a
larger share of "Superior" teachers, while other regions like Shida Kartly
and Non-Georgian school have the lowest share of highly qualified teachers in
all subjects. In addition, there also seems to be a lower share of
"Superior" teachers in the early grades (1-4) of primary school. The
situation is aggravated by lack of resources that have resulted in a drastic
decline of teachers participating in in-service training courses (e.g. from
7,380 in 1988 to 580 in 1997 at the Central Re-training Institute in
Tbilisi). The Government's effort to re-certify teachers will need to be
accompanied by more consistent and sustained efforts on in-service teacher
training interventions to effectively address these challenges.
Insufficient and inadequate learning materials and learning environments. In
order to attain those new learning targets, appropriate learning materials
and learning environments need to be provided. Since the early 1990's, the
MOE has virtually provided no funding for textbooks and it is now Government
policy that all school textbooks should be funded by parents via direct
purchase. This has led to significant under-supply of textbooks, which is
accentuated in the upper grades where more books with higher prices are
required. According to MOE data, about 75t of students in grades 1-4 have
access to all textbooks, while the number goes down to 50-60w for grades 5-9
and 25t for grades 10-11. In general, textbooks appear better provided in
urban than in rural areas. There appears to be interest in promoting the
development of alternative textbooks but current government policies do not
addresses equity issues. The Government has initiated a competitive process
for developing new textbooks to meet new standards. With the sponsorship of
the Open Society Georgia Foundation, a new regulatory framework is being
piloted to obtain MOE griff/approval. Some pilot rental schemes, supported
by OSIG will also be tested to explore the possibility of developing a
financially sustainable strategy for provision of quality textbooks. The
-3 -



challenges ahead are not only limited to developing a financially
sustainable, effective, and equitable system for the provision of textbooks
to schools, but also widening the type, quality of the content and
availability of learning materials to be in line with the new curriculum
standards and pedagogy.
The lack of funding has certainly had a negative impact on the quality and
maintenance of school facilities. Because of the lack of recurrent funds to
maintain the extensive education infrastructure, often combined with poor
standards of original construction, many buildings have deteriorated to the
point where the necessary rehabilitation or replacement would entail major
capital expenditure.   It was reported in 1997 that 18% of school buildings
are in dangerous or unusable condition, while a further 559 needed
significant capital repairs, up from 8% and 37% respectively in 1991-92.    The
school level database of the MOE Center for Informatics records 70% of rural
schools and 84% of urban schools in serious need of repair or reconstruction
in school year 1997-98. Based on the typical costs of school building
rehabilitation under the Social Investment Fund, the total bill for
restoring all general day
school buildings in the country could be in the region of US$200-250 million.
While budgetary allocations for maintenance and repair are negligible, this
figure will continue to escalate as more buildings reach the point of needing
major reconstruction. The cost of heating spacious and poorly insulated
school buildings is not yet reflected in the education budget as, in most
cases, heating systems are no longer functional; these costs are borne
mainly by parents who contribute wood (in rural areas) or kerosene to fuel
temporary stoves in each classroom. In addition to the absence of routine
building maintenance, specific regions in Georgia have been particularly hit
by earthquakes and civil war, which have left a number of schools totally
unusable. A number of those schools are forced to function in temporary
quarters, some of them in railroad cars or trailers. Most of the VET
institutions have been unable to repair or replace any equipment over the
last seven or eight years and they are now unable to provide the materials
needed for practical lessons at the core of this type of education. In
higher education, students complain about the general degradation of
classrooms, laboratories, libraries, and sanitary facilities. Access to
textbooks in HE is by comparison less problematic than in the lower tiers of
the system. This presumably reflects that the HE student population comes
from above-average income earning families.
Lack of reliable and systematic information on learning outcomes. There is a
lack of systematic and reliable information on student outcomes. Results of
examinations at the end of 11th grade have become meaningless and there is no
way of assessing how students are learning in different parts of the country.
This is also in part the result of the past system, with a strong focus on
inputs but not necessarily linked to outcomes. A high quality school was one
with a well maintained facility and equipment, a low student/teacher ratio,
narrowly specialized teachers, textbooks for all subjects, science and lab
equipment, a library and a gym. Attention to student learning was reflected
in Olympiad winners, that is, the few students that could excel. Virtually,
no attention was given to having all students learn. The new Education Law
expects to introduce external assessment at the end of grades 6, 9 and future
grade 12 to grant certificates at the end of each cycle. The grade 12 exam
is expected to replace university entrance exams. There are no references
and no experiences in the use of student learning outcomes to monitor and
- 4 -



inform policy-making as well as increase transparency and accountability
towards students, parents and society at large. The Government has
recognized this area as critical for the development of the system. A first
attempt to assess student learning outcomes nationwide will be conducted at
the end of the 98-99 school year for students in grades 6 through 9 in
different subjects.
In higher education, students report that examination results are not always
objectively assessed. Practices vary from patronage to outright bribery. It
is clear is that these practices are inherently counterproductive to allowing
an objective assessment of learning outcomes. They also question the
viability of higher education in view of the quality-driven demands of the
global economy. Finally, they raise concerns of equity and equal opportunity.
Inefficiencies in the use of resources: The norms and standards currently
determining decision making in terms of use of physical, financial and human
resources are a legacy of the past and still have a strong influence in
shaping people's conceptions of what they consider to be high quality or
desirable. The generous use of space in school facilities, the lower
student/teacher ratios, the unit of lesson time per subject and grades, the
qualification requirement for teachers are just some of the examples that
permeate the system and influence the use of resources. However, today's
reality is different: access to financial resources is limited, birth rates
have been declining, migration from rural to urban centers increased, younger
and well qualified teachers are inclined to leave the profession. The
Government has initiated steps in the direction of improving efficiencies in
the use of resources: a school mapping exercise has begun to be conducted to
provide information for possible school consolidation, the teacher
certification has been tied to increases in teacher salaries to provide
incentives for good teachers to remain on the job, and there have been
discussions on the need to improve the training of dual specialization
teachers and multi-grade teaching. There is a need to further refine
thinking and capacity in this area in order to develop policies that will
make better use of resources without sacrificing quality learning for all
students as well as developing target mechanism to reach those most in need.
In higher education, university administrations do not collect and/or
evaluate all available data to support strategic planning and to monitor
resource use. Management information systems are at best rudimentary and
generally non-existent. Unit costing hardly exists, making evaluations of
technical efficiency largely impossible. Hence, performance cannot really be
assessed, either for individual teaching programs or functional departments,
let alone the institution at large. The existence, size, and budget
absorption of individual departments often does not reflect at all a
perceived or real market demand. Rather, their implicit purpose is to save
staff from unemployment. Clearly, there are sizable opportunity costs
associated with addressing such policy which is widespread in Georgian
universities.
Low level of fiscal revenues at local level and lack of transparency in
resource allocation: From 1995 to 1998, about one third of public
expenditures for education came from the Central government while two thirds
came from the local level (Rayons). In fact, the share of education
expenditures by Rayons has increased from 20.8t in 1995 to 36.7T in 1998.
The 1998 budget forecasted a total transfer of 48.26 millions Laris from the
- 5 -



central budget to the Rayons.    This transfer represents about 40t of the
total wage bill of teachers and 22.7w of education expenditure for Rayons.
Rayons have to support 77.3w of their education expenditures from their own
fiscal resources, but they control only 20t of the fiscal revenues of the
country.    The split of responsibilities between central and local level does
not appear fair and it seems to contributes to delays in payment of teachers.
In 1998, many teachers outside Tbilisi had not been paid for several months.
Recent information indicates that 7 Rayons have experienced 7 months delay or
more, 14 between 4 and 6 months delay, 31 between one and three months and 6
without delays at all.   As a results of this, 70t of the teachers are
suffering from some arrears, a factor that unless solved, will affects the
support and credibility of any initiative to improve the quality of the
system.   This matter is being explored further by a study that is
investigating the causes of these delays in a selected sample of Rayons.
The lack of transparency of criteria used for distributing resources to
Rayons and the level of earmarked transfers to education raises some
important questions. In 1998, for 13 Rayons, no funds were earmarked for
education, assuming that they could generate locally enough fiscal resources
to deliver basic education services. In 1999, 5 Rayons received no central
government transfers at all, under the same rationale.      This lack of
transparency contributes to great variability on average per pupil
expenditures by Rayon. In 1998 they went from 70 Laris in Kvareli to 279 in
Ambrolauri, this latter receiving earmarked funds above the average. With
122 as the average for the country these variations cannot be totally
explained by remoteness or low student/teacher ratios.
In order to address the issue of delays in payment, the Government will have
to consider an increase in earmarked transfers for education, at least to
finance all teachers salaries, or give to the local level control over a
higher share of fiscal revenue (at least 30%). These measures should be
accompanied by the development of transparent criteria for resource
allocation.
Weak governance and management capacity: In its process towards a more
democratic and open society, Georgia is redefining roles and responsibilities
at different levels. Some of the recent changes attempt to strengthen
executive power, increase efficiency of the Parliament, and improve
accountability by introducing locally elected bodies (Sakrebulos). The
structure and management of the education sector, as defined by the Education
Law if 1997, identifies four different levels of management: central
government; 12 regional education departments; 68 district or "rayon"
education divisions; and schools. Up to this moment, regional education
departments are only operating in 7 regions, and are conceived as branches of
the MOE. The Autonomous Republics of Adjara and Abkhazia have their own
ministries of education. Since the Education Law was adopted prior to local
elections, it does not reflect the developments at the village/community
level (more than 1,000 of these), where local elected councils (Sakreboulos)
can create education committees.
The responsibilities of each level are described below:
Central level the Ministry of Education, the Education Committee of the
Parliament, President, and line ministries. (i) the Parliament is supposed to
determine the main direction of the state education policy and ensure that
- 6 -



adequate funds are allocated when approving the annual budget law (Article
16); (ii) the President appoints the Minister of Education as well as
chancellors of all public universities; he also approves establishment or
shutting down of higher education facility; and confirms annual state orders
for tertiary education institutions (Article 17); (iii) the line ministries
take part in developing education programs and standards. Also, the Ministry
of Economy, (together with the MOE), develops state orders for tertiary
education and is supposed to develop financial norms for education
facilities; (iv) the Ministry of Finance has a rather important role in terms
of education budget implementation; (v) there is a large number of tertiary
education institutions under the direct subordination of line ministries
(e.g. Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Culture, and Finance);
The Ministry of Education is clearly the key ministry. It drafts education
programs (curricula).     Together with the relevant line ministries,
Patriarchy of Georgia and Academy of Science of Georgia (Article 18. 2) it
develops and approves standards. It is also responsible for approving
textbooks, introducing timetables, appointing school principals, defining
school fees for grades 10 and 11, determining the school calendar, licensing
higher education facilities and those offering professional military
education programs and carrying out attestation of education institutions,
teachers and students.
Regional level there are seven (out of 12) Regional Education Departments
already functioning: Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Samyskhe-Javakheti,
Guria, Imereti, Kakheti, and Racha-Lechkhum. Tbilisi has a unique status and
represents one Regional Education Department. It is funded by Tbilisi
Municipality and not from the Central Budget, like the others.
These Departments are supposed to actually support and supervise
implementation of state education policy throughout their respective regions.
They do not manage budgets but are responsible for controlling that adequate
funds are allocated in local budgets for the education sector. They also play
a distinct role in appointing/terminating principals of education
institutions (except higher) as well as heads of Rayon Education Divisions.
District level there are District (Rayon) Education Divisions. Such Divisions
are part of the administrative structure of the executive branch of local
government (Gamgeoba, whose members are appointed) and is subordinate to the
Regional Education Department. This division does not manage local education
budgets, nor does it pay teachers. These are responsibilities of the
Financial Division within the district/(Rayon) administrative structure.
District Education Divisions are mostly involved in pedagogy aspects such as
syllabi development, training issues, updating teachers and principals on
education programs/standards, methodology and providing pedagogical support
to teachers.
School level management is carried out by principals and deputy principals in
collaboration (at least on paper) with Teachers' Council. All teachers on
staff automatically become members of such Council. Even though the Law
furnishes Teachers' Councils with certain rights, in practice the majority of
Councils are extremely inert and do not make use of these provisions.
Schools can be supported by a Board of Trustees the main role of which is to
raise funds for the school and monitor the school budget. School principals
are responsible for hiring and firing staff and managing the extra resources
- 7 -



collected, prepare timetable, and determine school extra-curricular
activities and selection of foreign languages instructed. Teacher are free
to choose textbooks and teaching methodology.
In addition to the levels listed above, a new level comes into the picture
with November 1998 elections of Sakrebulos (local councils). Sakrebulos
represent the lowest level of Georgian government (thus their role could not
be administrative). They do indeed represent interests of their respective
communities, including education related ones. One important area of
Sakrebulo involvement is budget preparation. Therefore, they will have a say
on education allocations in annual budgets of respective villages/small
towns. Besides, Sakrebulos can form ad hoc sector specific committees (e.g.
health, education, etc.) if need for having such committee is identified.
The committees are thus far uncertain about their functions and
responsibilities. Currently they mostly serve as an entry point for people to
come in with different complains. The committees try to convey these
complains upwards the hierarchy and seek for solutions.
As a result of the decentralization process, the current governance of the
education system is suffering from lack of clarity. The existing legal and
regulatory framework is perceived as too rigid, often contradictory and
overall not sufficient to support the implementation of an education sector
reform. The system seems to be overburdened with too many "bureaucratic"
layers that have blurred boundaries of responsibility and accountability. In
some cases responsibilities are duplicated (e.g. Ministry and Regional
Education Department; Regional Education Departments and Rayon Education
Divisions) and in other cases some areas seem to be "no man's land." As for
accountability, no one (personally or institutionally) recognizes it. There
is lack of effective coordination, both vertically throughout the hierarchy
of the education system, and horizontally between the education sector and
other sectors, as well as among the different stakeholders within the
education sector. There is lack of administrative and financial management
capacity at almost all levels including the Center, which creates
considerable risk in terms of proper planing for education reform and later
on its implementation. There are gaps between policy making and policy
implementation, between Center and Rayons. There is no effective mechanism to
assess feasibility of strategies developed at the upper level and receive
feedback from the bottom. The above point links up with issues regarding
communication. Currently, neither effective information dissemination
concerning the rationale, objectives, benefits and implementation process of
reform measures nor consultation with the public and professionals to build
consensus for implementation take place. Rather there is an attempt to
achieve most of the required reforms through central dictate. It is also
recognized that availability of data to inform decision making at each level
is limited, not necessarily timely or reliable. There is a major problem of
duplication of efforts in data collection, mainly for the data collected at
the school level. While a statistical survey is supposed to collect and
share this data, parallel surveys (mainly originating form special units
within the MOE carrying on tasks like a school mapping exercise and
assessment of school buildings and facilities) tend to overload the school
management with many filling-in of the same data, and so increase the risk of
unreliability.
In higher education, responsibility for the projection of state order
students (number of scholarship recipients in each university program per
- 8 -



year) lies with line ministries and the Ministry of Economy. The process by
which future student demand is projected is unclear. It is generally marred
by insufficient management capabilities as well as lack of data. Hence, state
orders often reflect extrapolations of past figures, corrected for budget
cuts, rather than the needs of the country as perceived by the government.
Growing inequities: In its effort to reduce its expenditure and shift the
financing responsibility for parts of the education system the central
Government has relinquished responsibility for the financing of preschool
services, introduced fees for grades 10 and 11-with merit and some means-
based exemptions, and opened up the possibility of creating private schools.
All these measures have positive aspects but carry associated risks of
increasing inequities in access to school and quality education, since
options are left to those than can afford it. Between 1990 and 1997, total
enrollments dropped from 1,242 million to 924 thousands. This decline has
affected some age groups more than others. Preschool enrollments has gone
down from about 200,000 to 83,000, upper secondary enrollments (grades 10-11)
from 105,000 to 70,000 and vocational education from 42,000 to 20,000 (this
latter according to figures in the National Observatory stock-taking report
for ETF). Decline in secondary education appears to be more accentuated in
urban areas at about 14.5w versus about 9t in rural areas.    Declining birth
rates, internal migration and increase in private school enrollment
(reported about 10,000 student in grades 1-11 in 1997) can account for some
of this: however, the magnitude of the decline can be an indication of other
factors intervening. Students dropping out after grade 9 deserve special
attention since several factors my be operating to accentuate the problems:
fees that make it inaccessible for students from poorer backgrounds to
continue, the closing of alternative vocational options, the lack of
motivation in continuing studies that are perceived as irrelevant. It is
believed that 60t of those students in grade 9, continue their education in
grade 10, while 20t of all 14 years old leave the educational system all
together.
To increase resources channeled to the sector, public schools have been
given the freedom to collect additional resources from sponsors and parents,
both in cash and in kind, as well as seek alternative ways to generate
resources like renting their facilities. However, a recent measure prohibits
schools to maintain accounts in commercial banks. They can only deposit their
additional revenues on individual accounts at the Treasury. In addition,
unclear property laws make some principals in both urban and rural areas
reluctant to rent school space, because they don't know who the property
belongs to. It is difficult to accurately estimate the share of private
expenditures on education. While the share of household contribution to
education can be considered relatively high (about 26.9%), its share within
GDP remain comparatively low (0.6%). The strong decline of public resources
allocated to education has not been compensated by a strong household
investment. When the support exist, it seems to be concentrated on the
individual child, rather than on the support of schools, which remain
underfinanced. Results from the Social Assessment support this notion and
also suggest that inequities among those in school are also developing as a
parallel system is appearing by which those parents that can afford to
support their children's education with private tutoring and improved
learning environments (class space, heating, etc.) do so. Parents who can
support schools with additional resources become more influential in school
decisions and can get special benefits for their children.
-9-



Geographical differences:
Tbilisi school system is perceived to be in better condition than the rest of
the country, according to the Social Assessment: more resources, better
qualified teachers, more support, and more possibilities for schools to
capture parental contributions.   About 20t of students are enrolled in
Tbilisi. Of the total student population in secondary schools (714,638 in
grades 1-11), about 53t attend 675 urban schools while the rest attend 2,500
schools located in rural areas. Rural schools suffer from lack or limited
access to better qualified teachers, less resources and limited opportunities
for raising additional revenue from the community, and have to endure more
deteriorating conditions. Other than the urban/rural distinction, an
important factor to take into consideration is school size. There are 895
schools with less than 51 students per school, serving 17,955 students, the
largest share of them in primary school (grades 1-4). They represent about
3t of the total student population and about 5t of 1-4 total enrollments.
Ethnic minorities attending non-Georgian schools (in about 525 schools, 15t
of total schools) face specific problems, since they use textbooks for some
subjects from other countries, not necessarily relevant to Georgian
curriculum, while translations from Georgian are less attractive because of
small print runs and the need to keep costs to the minimum. In addition,
their teachers are usually not well qualified to provide a proper instruction
of Georgian language, which leaves them later at a disadvantage when
competing for places at universities.
Gender differences in terms of access to education are not evidenced as
number of girls and boys enrolled in secondary schools appear about the same
(about 49t of total students are girls). However, in some areas cultural
traditions encourage girls to get married earlier and so their likelihood of
dropping out of school is higher. In rural areas, parents tend to have
higher expectation for boys to continue their studies than for girls but both
boys and girls were expected to help with production. Initial content
analysis of the proposed curriculum for history suggests that there is not
sufficient attention to the historical contribution of women to society.
Wages, however, indicate a large gender gap of about 35t after controlling
for job and individual characteristics. This could be the result of
segregation of women into lower paid jobs, more unstable jobs, or salary
discriminations. A clear evidence of this trend is the feminization of the
teaching force, as men have left the profession for better paid jobs.
Poverty:  According to the recent Poverty Report, about 119 of the population
in Georgia remains poor and nearly 9t extremely poor. Poverty tends to be
associated with employment status and ownership of productive assets, with
urban poverty being more widespread deeper and more severe than rural
poverty, and more accentuated in some regions (Imereti, Guria, Samtskhe
javakheti, Kvemo Kartli and Kakheti) than others. Teachers are at risk of
being poor, since they tend to suffer wage arrears which is one of the
factors driving families into poverty. Teachers tend to supplement their
income with unreported activities, of which tutoring and parent fees
represent an additional source, particularly in urban areas. Private returns
to education are strong and significant, especially for secondary education,
which commands a premium of about 30 percent over incomplete secondary. The
earning differential between complete secondary and higher are about 15
percent. However, there is a strong positive association between education
and being in the top income quintile on a sustained basis. One of the
- 10 -



challenges ahead is to address equity implications from a sector policy
perspective, since poverty issues tend to be perceived as the responsibility
of other Ministries.
2. Objectives
The program seeks to improve the quality and relevance of general secondary
students learning outcomes to better prepare them to meet the demands of a
market economy and a democratic society. Phase I of the program begins to
develop the policy and institutional framework required for an effective
realignment of the system objectives, develop its capacity to meet those new
objectives and manage its physical, financial and human resources equitably,
efficiently and effectively.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
No other donor agency will provide either the technical or financial
resources to support sector wide reforms in Georgia; but at the same time,
the Bank has the capacity to mobilize and coordinate other donor support,
providing an overall framework into where other donor contributions can be
integrated. Meetings with other donors have been organized at each time and
will continue during preparation to keep all actors informed of pace of
activities and seek opportunities for collaboration. Bilateral cooperation
appears to be limited to textbooks in other languages and training for
foreign language teachers. Discussion have been sustained all along with the
Soros Foundation (OSIGF/IEP), one of the most active donors in Georgia, to
make sure activities are coordinated and build upon each other experiences as
much as possible. Unfortunately, the OSIGF program has been delayed in its
implementation due to changes in leadership and restructuring currently going
on in the Foundation. UNDP has expressed interest in co-financing curriculum
development and reform at university level and UNICEF is becoming more active
in the education scene. Coordination and cooperation with potential partners
will be further explored during project preparation.
4. Description
1. Realignment of the System Objectives
2. Strengthening Capacity for Policy and Management
3. Project Management Support
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       60.0
6. Implementation
The first phase of the project will be implemented in about 3 years. The
Ministry of Education will be responsible for implementing the Project on
behalf of the Georgian Government. It is recognized, however, that there are
several institutions and stakeholder representatives outside the formal
Ministry of Education that should be involved in the process in determining
the projects goals and reviewing its impact during project implementation as
well as preparation. Therefore, it is envisaged that a broad "Project
Steering Committee" would be established consisting off all major
stakeholders including the Ministry of Education and its related
institutions, other agencies of the Government, Education Committee of the
- 11 -



Parliament, representatives of regional and local administrations,
representatives of teachers, principles and parents, locally active NGO's,
etc. This Committee would meet annually to discuss and agree on the broad
objectives of the next years project implementation and review the project's
progress in comparison to previously agreed objectives.
The more direct governance of the Project would be provided by a "Project
Management Committee" chaired by the Minister of Education and consisting of
all Deputy Ministers, key heads of Departments and heads of institutes
essential for project implementation (such as those involved in development
of standards and curricula, EMIS assessment of public opinion, national
student assessment, etc.). This Project Management Committee (PMC) would
meet at least every other month and would (i) agree on annual work programs
and budgets; (ii) assess the physical progress of project implementation;
(iii) evaluate the physical progress in terms of its impact on project
objectives; (iv) make necessary recommendations on changes to project design
or sequencing; and (v) establish specific Working Groups (with appointed
Chairpersons) or appoint specific "Coordinators" responsible for providing
the necessary technical input (i.e. for terms of reference, technical
specifications, etc.), follow-through (working with consultants,
participating in tender evaluations, etc.), and supervision (certify the
acceptance of goods or works, certify the output of consultants is according
to Terms of Reference and is of acceptable quality, etc.).
At this point in time, it is foreseen that full implementation responsible in
terms of meeting the fiduciary, procedural, and reporting requirements of the
Bank and Government will rest with the Ministry of Education. A Project
Coordination Unit will be developed as part of the Ministry with staff that
will be trained in procurement, international accounting standards,
disbursement procedures, etc. Unlike other projects in Georgia, however, it
is the desire of the Ministry of Education and is agreed with the Bank that
the PCU will not be established as a separate legal entity. Therefore, the
legal authority to open bank accounts, sign contracts, etc., will remain with
the Ministry of Education. This will ensure that more project ownership by
the Ministry and will contribute to building project management, procurement
and financial management skills within the Ministry more generally. However,
there is a risk that project implementation could be seriously and negatively
impacted by delays resulting from the bureaucratic procedures of the
Ministry. Therefore, the positive and negative impacts of this arrangement
will be assessed during project preparation as the Ministry will be executing
a PHRD Grant provided by the Japanese Government.
7. Sustainability
Several factors can affect the sustainability of the project: (a)
availability of counterpart funds for investment phase and government
budgetary support in subsequent phases to sustain the investment; (b)
sustained delays in payment of teacher salaries that can affect teachers
motivation and commitment to reform; (c) not appropriate incentives to
attract and sustain highly qualified teachers; (d) local capacity to manage
and implement project activities; (e) social and community support for
reforms; (f) political instability that may result in changes in leadership;
Project design and preparation activities try to minimize the impact of those
factors. for example by trying to clearly understand the factors behind
- 12 -



delays in teachers' payments; providing technical assistance and training
opportunities to develop local capacity; supporting public awareness and
information campaign regarding education reform.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Borrower ownership and stakeholders' participation: Borrower ownership and
stakeholders participation are essential to ensure the sustainability of
projects. Efforts to build dialogue and partnership in design and strategic
choices for investments have been present all along building on experience
gained through sector work. The voices of students, teachers,
administrators, employers, parents and communities have been included in the
dialogue through preparation and dissemination of social assessment, study on
teaching practices, higher and VET report, and through workshops and
conferences that bring together different stakeholders. Efforts to discuss
and disseminate ideas to different stakeholders will continue during project
preparation. More commitment to implementation is expected as a result of
these efforts.
Institutional strengthening: Other WB financed projects have shown that
adequate institutional capacity and appropriate policy framework are key
determinants of project success. Focus will be placed on strengthening MOE's
capacity to monitor and evaluate quality, efficiency and equity of the system
and make sound policy decisions on the basis of the findings. As the country
continues its process towards decentralization, attention will be paid to
strengthening capacity at each level in their redefined roles and improving
communication.
Simple project design and flexibility: Simplicity and clarity in design and
flexibility in implementation characterize successful projects. Project
components should be limited and well focused. The program in Georgia is
ambitious in nature as it addresses the education system as a whole. One of
the challenges in its design is to be able to provide the right policy and
institutional framework while at the same time identifying a limited set of
key interventions that could act as catalyst for improving the system,
without overwhelming the local capacity to manage the reform program.
Clearly indicated and adequately supported project management:      Key lessons
learned from the Bank's portfolio in Georgia as well as elsewhere in the
region indicate that (i) consultation with stakeholders outside the Ministry
during project implementation in essential to maintain support built during a
participatory preparation process; (ii) it is necessary to balance the
objectives of building agency commitment to the project and building project
management capacity in the public sector with the objective of establishing
efficient, timely and transparent project management procedures; (iii) the
roles and responsibilities of those involved in project implementation need
to be clearly identified; (iv) project management arrangements should balance
the need of having specific technical coordinators for narrow components of
the project with the need to have flexible decision making arrangements so
that necessary trade-offs between components can be made and so that slow
implementation of one component does not unduly impact on the achievement of
the projects objectives; (v) project management needs to be adequately
supported with funding, technical assistance and training; and (vi)
counterpart funds need to be adequately budgeted and funded. The proposed
- 13 -



project management arrangements (See Section C, Para. 4) incorporates the
need for stakeholder involvement as well as technical input and supervision
while proposing effective management decision arrangements. While the
Ministry of Education, rather than an independent project implementation
unit, will remain responsible for the project, a Project Coordination Unit of
full-time dedicated staff will be developed to support the process. The
implementation arrangements will also be tested during the phase of project
preparation. Component 3 of the project will provide the necessary financial
and technical support for project management. Counterpart funding
requirements will be carefully assessed during project preparation. A
Project Account will be established for the counterpart contribution to
project preparation as well as implementation. Disbursement by the Ministry
of Finance of the project's first semester counterpart funding requirement to
the Project Account will be a condition of effectiveness.
Focus on teacher effectiveness and their professional development: The last
ten years of education research have attested to the importance of investing
on teachers to attain any significant changes in terms of student learning.
Good teaching has been identified as the key to school success and school
reform. The single most important measurable cause of increased student
learning is teacher expertise. Teachers' effectiveness is based on their
knowledge of subject matter, child development, learning theory, curriculum
development and teaching methods. The project will address these issues
through specially designed professional development programs and supporting
learning materials.
Teacher's involvement and public awareness: The political economy of
education reform recognizes the value of involving education stakeholders at
different stages of reform to have a successful implementation. Teacher
support is essential to successful reform, since expected changes and
improvement in learning outcomes are dependent on teachers behaviors and
practices in the classroom. The training program for teachers will be
designed in close collaboration and consultation with them. A conference to
discuss national and international models of in-service training will take
place in October 1999 involving over 100 teachers, methodologists and
principals from all over the country.
Focus on learning outcomes:
The main ways in which governments can help improve the quality of education
are setting standards, supporting inputs known to improve achievement,
adopting flexible strategies for the acquisition and use of inputs, and
monitoring performance. Due to political changes and growing awareness of
the importance of focusing on outcomes, a world-wide tendency emerges of
national governments taking responsibility for quality by setting standards
and monitoring educational achievement, while delegating the responsibility
for the use of inputs and the process of acquisition to the providers.
Important differences may be observed in the ways national governments
exercise their responsibility for the quality and certification of outcomes
of education. In some cases, they take strict control of the instruments,
like examinations, while providing broadly formulated standards for the
outcomes to be tested and monitored. The Dutch and Israeli systems of
national examinations are examples of this approach. In other cases, detailed
descriptions of knowledge and skills to be mastered are issued, while testing
and monitoring are delegated to independent institutions. The assessment of
key stages in the UK National curriculum and Quality Assurance within the New
- 14 -



Zealand Qualification Framework are elaboration of this policy. Irrespective
of the particular approach, compromising national responsibility for quality
of input and outcomes with the providers' responsibility for the input use
and acquisition of desired knowledge and skills, is an important
characteristic for all so called 'outcome based curricula'. The project has
put a special emphasis on developing an assessment and examination system
that suits the needs of the Georgian system and disseminated information on
results to stakeholders in order to increase accountability.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
Since the proposed Georgia Education Project is conceived as a "System
Realignment and Strengthening Program", the Adjustable Program Loan focuses
on developing the capacity of the MOE to make a more efficient use of the
school building space by developing new standards for design and maintenance,
a school mapping exercise and the preparation of a school consolidation plan.
11. Contact Point:
Team Leader
Yael D. Duthilleul
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-7159
Fax:   (202) 477-0574
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 9, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 15 -



