Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20952-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.9 MILLION
(US$25.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SYSTEM REALIGNMENT AND STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
February 22, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Georgia Country Unit III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 22, 2001)
Currency Unit   =    Lari (GEL)
GEL 2.0250000 = US$1
US$0.4938271  =    GEL 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC     Adaptable Program Credit                    MW          Minor Works
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                  NAEC        National Assessment and Evaluation Center
CITO    National Institute for Educational Measurement  NBF     Non-Bank Financed
CPAR   Country Procurement Assessment Report        NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CPP    Community Participation Procurement          NGO's       Non Governmental Organizations
CS      Consultant Qualification                    NS          National Shopping
CW      Civil Works                                 OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
DC      Direct Contract                             OSGF        Open Society Georgian Foundation
DCA     Development Credit Agreement                PAD         Project Appraisal Document
DRC    District Resource Center                     PAS        Procurement Accredited Staff
ECA     Europe and Central Asia Region              PCU         Project Coordination Unit
EMIS   Education Management Information System      PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
ETF     Employment and Training Foundation          PIP         Project Implementation Plan
FMS    Financial Management System                  PIU         Project Implementation Unit
FSU     Former Soviet Union                         PMC         Project Management Committee
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                       PMR         Project Management Report
GOG    Government of Georgia                        PPF        Project Preparation Facility
GPN     General Procurement Notice                  PSR        Project Status Report
GSIF    Georgia Social Investment Fund              QOBS       Quality and Cost-based Selection
IAPSO   Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office    RC          Resource Centers
IC      Individual Consultants                      RFP        Request for Proposal
ICB     International Competitive Bidding           SA         Special Account
IDA     International Development Association       SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
IIEP    International Institute of Education Policy  SBD       Standard Bidding Documents
ILO     Intemational Labor Organization             SOE        Statement of Expense
IMF     Intemational Monetary Fund                  SPN        Specific Procurement Notice
IS      International Shopping                      SS         Single Source
ITQ     Invitation to Quote                         TOR        Terms of Reference
LED     Local Education Department                  UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
LCS     Least Cost Selection                        UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
LIL     Learning Innovation Loan                    UNICEF    United Nations Children's and Education Fund
MoE    Ministry of Education                        VET        Vocational Education and Training
MoF    Ministry of Finance                          WB         World Bank
MoH     Ministry of Health
Vice President:        Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:            Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Manager/Director:           James Socknat, ECSHD
Task Team  Leader/Task Manager:              Yael Duthilleul, ECSHD



GEORGIA
EDUCATION SYSTEM REALIGNMENT AND STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
CONTENTS
Page
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                              ......................................1
1. Program   purpose and program  phasing  .......................1.......................................1
2. Project development objective ...............................................................2
3. Key performance indicators ...............................................................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................3
1. Sector-related  Country  Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ................                                          3
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ...............................................................3
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices ...................................... 11
4. Program   description  and performance triggers for subsequent loans ...............                                       ................... 13
C. Program   and Project Description  Summary ..............................................................                                     15
1. Project components ..............................................................                                                         15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported  by the project ............................................ 17
3.  Benefits and target population .............................................................. 17
4.  Institutional and implementation  arrangements ..............................................................   17
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                              22
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection .................................................... 22
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in the project design ............................................................. 26
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................................................  27
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ..............................................................                                28
E.  Summary Project Analysis .............................................................. 28
1. Economic .............................................................. 28
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                                  29
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                                  29
4.  Institutional .............................................................. 3 1
5. Social ..............................................................                                                                     33
6. Environmental assessment:  Environment Category ........................................................... 34
7. Participatory Approach .............................................................. 34
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                .                                      35
1.  Sustainability ..............................................................                                                           35
2. Critical Risks ..............................................................                                                             36
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..............................................................                                             37
G. Main  CreditConditions ..............................................................                                                        37
1. Effectiveness Condition ..............................................................                                                   37
2.  Other .............................................................. 37



H. Readiness for Implementation .......................................... 39
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................................                                                 39
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary .........................................                                                40
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description ......................................... 46
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs ......................................... 53
Annex 4: Economic Analysis .........................................                                                       54
Annex 5: Financial Summary .........................................                                                       62
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .........................................                             63
Annex 7:   Project Processing Schedule ......................................... 90
Annex 8:   Documents in the Project File .........................................                                         91
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits ......................................... 92
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .........................................                                                     94
Annex 11: Education Indicators .........................................                                                   96
Annex 12: Summary of Institutional Analysis .........................................                                     100
Annex 13: Summary of Social Assessment Findings ......................................... 102
Annex 14: Letter of Development Policy .........................................                                          105
MAP(S)
IBRD 28703



GEORGIA
Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Country Unit III
Date: February 22, 2001                           Team Leader: Yael D. Duthilleul
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor        Sector Manager/Director: James A. Socknat
Project ID: P055173                               Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Credit (APC)  Theme(s): Education
Povertv Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financin Data
IDA            Others   Total   Commitment    Closing
UjS$ m_  %      US$ m    US$ m        Date         Date
APC I    25.90    82.5   5.50      31.40    07/01/2001    06/30/2005   Georgia
Loan/  Credit
C'redit
APC 2    20.00    80.0   5.00      25.00    07/01/2005    06/30/2009   Georgia
Loan/  Credit
Credit  __     _
APC 3    14.10    78.8   3.80       17.90    07/01/2009    06/30/2013   Georgia
Loan/  Credit
Credit  _             __
Total     60.00    _     14.30     74.30
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [XI Credit     I I Grant    [ I Guarantee     I I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (I!S$m): 25.90 (Phase 1)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years):  10                     Years to maturity:  40
Commitment fee:  0.5%                         Service charge:  0.75%
IDA                                                                  16.44     9.46    25.90
BORROWING AGENCY                                                      4.80     0.00      4.80
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY    0.35              0.00      0.35
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                                    0.35     0.00      0.35
Total:                                                               21.94     9.46    31.39



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Georgia Education Project Center
Address: 60 Javakhishvili St., 2nd Floor
Tbilisi, 380002
Georgia
Contact Person: Mr. Vasiko Kacharava, Executive Director, Education Project Coordination Unit
Tel: (995-32) 95-98-37         Fax: (995-32) 95-83-13              Email: edpcu(access.sanet.ge
Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual    1.20   I   6.30       4.10        8.60       5.70
Cumulative     1.20       7.50     11.60       20.20      25.90
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS APC PAD Form: Rev. March, 2000



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The proposed Adaptable Program Credit (APC) supports the Government's primary and general
secondary education realignment and strengthening program, as outlined in its 1997 Education
Law and the Government's letter of development policy. The APC will have three phases of
about 4 years each, starting around July 2001. Phase I will be for about US$25.9 million, and
the predicted Phase II and Phase III loans, if approved, for about US$20 million and $14.1
million respectively. At the end of Phase III, the primary and general secondary education sector
will be better equipped to satisfactorily meet the demands on student learning brought out by a
market economy and a democratic society and will have the capacity to make a more efficient
and effective use of its physical, financial and human resources to deliver quality education for
all.
The collapse of GDP by 75% between 1990 and 1994 and the drastic fall in funding to education
to less than 2% of GDP has put the education sector in Georgia under serious challenge.
Nonetheless, the Ministry of Education has developed an ambitious program that has been
endorsed by the 1997 Education Law. The program has a strong focus on improving the quality
and efficiency of primary and general secondary education, strengthening institutional capacity,
and mobilizing public and private resources. In spite of inconsistent and precarious funding,
commitment to the sector has been proven in numerous initiatives undertaken by the
Government to address those goals, particularly the efforts towards teacher certification,
adjusting salary compensation to teacher qualifications and development of new curriculum.
The capacity to carry on tlhese ambitious reforms as well as to introduce the required changes to
have a more efficient, effective and equitable system, is largely dependent on access to additional
financial and technical resources that could provide a long-term strategic framework to the
current efforts.
The longer term perspective of the APC would provide the Government the appropriate support
to undertake a system reform while at the same time providing the flexibility to adjust and refine
interventions on an on-going basis. The focus of intervention will address primary and general
secondary education (grades 1 to 11). Phase I of the program will begin to develop the tools
required for an effective realignment of the system objectives and the policy and management
capacity to improve the efficiency, equity and quality of the system. Initial focus will be on
developing specific tools (e.g. curriculum and programs, student assessment and examinations,
and EMIS) and a series of interventions (e.g. teacher in-service training, school grants and
learning materials). Interventions will begin in Phase 1 in a group of schools from all over the
country, selected to represent Georgia in most variables, and motivated to experiment. Although
school selection criteria may vary depending on the purpose of the interventions in the initial
phase, synergies will be sought as much as possible to have a stronger impact at the school level
from the different efforts. This criteria for sampling will facilitate upscaling in subsequent
phases. Results from these experiences will be evaluated and serve as an input for the design and
extension of the program nationwide to a group 2 of schools interested in following the example
during Phase 2, and finally to all schools in Georgia during Phase 3. Developing management
and policy capacity will focus during phase 1 on strengthening the central level in its redefined
role within a decentralized system and will focus on developing policy capacity to improve
internal efficiency and quality in the system. As the pace of decentralization evolves, subsequent
- 1 -



phases will support capacity development at local and school levels and will move on to address
equity and extemal efficiency policy issues as well.
(a) Phase I (2001-2005) will address the realignment of the system objectives by developing a
national curriculum for primary and general secondary education, creating a national system to
assess the results of student learning in core areas and specific grades, providing training to
teachers and principals for the attainment of those targets, and providing basic learning materials
to support such attainment. This will be supplemented by interventions aimed at strengthening
the policy and management capacity to improve effectiveness and efficiency in the use of
physical, financial and human resources and guide the design of interventions in subsequent
stages. The focus will be on development of new financing formulas, school consolidation
initiatives and strategies aimed at restructuring the teaching force.
(b) Phase 11 (2005-2009), if approved, will expand interventions to schools in group 2, promote
school innovations as well as make use of the policy work developed during phase I to improve
efficiency and quality.  Financial and teacher professional development reforms will be
implemented. Policies to address equity issues will be developed.
(c) Phase III (2009-2013), if approved, will complete interventions at the general secondary
education level, implement equity policies and develop capacity to address external efficiency
issues.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The program seeks to improve the quality and relevance of primary and general secondary
students learning outcomes to better prepare them to meet the demands of a market economy and
a democratic society. Phase I of the program begins to develop the policy and institutional
framework required for an effective realignment of the system, develop its capacity to meet those
new objectives and manage its physical, financial and human resources equitably, efficiently and
effectively.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Compliance with key performance indicators under Phase I loan would function as "triggers" for
consideration of second phase Bank support. They include (a) concrete project related output
indicators as well as; (b) satisfactory progress towards the design/implementation of a set of
policy oriented activities aimed at improving the efficiency in the use of resources and the
quality of services provided; and (c) institutional indicators.
Phase II objectives would include the expansion of intervention to a second group of schools and
piloting some of the policy oriented interventions developed in prior years, while Phase III
would complete interventions at general secondary education nationwide.
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 17000-GE          Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/22/97
The 1997 Georgia CAS indicates that one of the major risks to long-term growth is the
deteriorating human capital stock as a result of unequal access and low quality of public
education. Alleviating pciverty through improving access and quality of services to vulnerable
groups as well as improving efficient use of limited resources is one of the CAS main objectives.
The CAS also indicates that achieving these goals would require higher spending for the social
sector and assumes that curriculum reform for primary education be completed by 1998. The
CAS also expects the education program to develop a system for licensing and accrediting
teachers and educational institutions and revise the scholarship system. The APC is directly
supportive of CAS objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The first years of Georgia's independence were marked by internal armed conflicts, secessionist
movements in South Ossetia and Abkhazia and a brief civil war. The economy collapsed, real
wages fell by 90 percent, health and education and poverty indicators worsened as a result of
drastic cuts in public expenditures. In mid-1994 the Government embarked on a comprehensive
reform program, with the support of the IMF and the World Bank. Since then, successful
structural reforms had been undertaken to enable private sector development, accompanied by
liberalization of prices and trade, downsizing of budget sector employees, small scale
privatization, establishment of a basic legal framework, as well as land, banking, and energy
sector reforms. Thanks to the combination of sound fiscal and monetary policies and important
strides in the development of the structural reform agendas, real economic growth resumed in
1995 and exceeded 10 percent in 1997. However, the economic and financial situation
deteriorated significantly in 1998 due to a combination of internal factors and external shocks.
The current Bank assisted strategy seeks to consolidate past accomplishments, correct the
growing macroeconomic imbalances, strengthen the economy's capacity to address the shocks
stemming from the Russian crisis and maintain it on a sustainable high growth path, and ensure
the provision of basic social services to vulnerable groups.  The program  focuses on
strengthening public finance, diversifying sources of growth, protecting the environment, and
reducing poverty. The deterioration in the quality and access to education services is seen as a
major barrier to long-term growth and condemning at least one generation to continued poverty.
The sharp decline in funding that the education sector experienced in Georgia has been one of
the most severe in the region and unique in the history of education systems worldwide. The
state budget for the sector in 1996 was only 5% - in real terms-of what it had been in 1989. This
was a consequence of the overall 75% decline of GDP between 1991 and 1994 and the decline of
the share of education within it, from more than 7% in 1991 to less than 1% in 1994. Since 1995
a modest recovery has taken place, public education expenditure has been multiplied by 4
between 1995 and 1998 and their share in the total amount of public expenditure has gone from
6.7% to 11.3%. The fact that GDP estimates have been decreased by 35% since December 1999
make it more difficult to provide comparable figures. According to old estimates, the share of
GDP allocated to education was 1.4 % in 1999. With the new recalculated GDP, the share
- 3 -



increases and was estimated at 2.4% in 1998. Nonetheless, education's share of GDP remains
low by international standards.
While the limited funding has serious implications for education quality, teacher salaries, access
to learning materials and maintenance of school facilities, the challenges the education system
encounters today in Georgia would not be solved only by bringing in additional financial
resources. Deeper structural reforms are needed in order to meet the new demands of a market
economy and a democratic society. A brief presentation of the organization of the system and a
summary of the critical issues affecting it follows.
Structure and Access to the System
According to the new Education Law, primary school is Georgia includes grades 1-6, basic
education goes up to grade 9, and upper secondary covers grades 10 and 11 (there is an interest
to add a grade 12 in the future). Under the present Constitution, education is compulsory and
free of charge through grade 9. On a temporary basis, fees have been introduced for students in
grade 10 and 11 with about a 30% merit and needs exception. Students have to pass an
examination to enter universities and free places are still awarded on the basis of "state orders".
The positive legacy of the Soviet system is a highly educated population-basic illiteracy is almost
negligible and more than 20% of the adult population have higher education. The lack of reliable
data regarding population trends makes it difficult to present accurate net enrollment rates by
level. It is noted however, that between 1990 and 1997, total enrollments dropped from 1,242
million to 924 thousands. This decline has affected some age groups more than others.
Preschool enrollments in public institutions has gone down from about 200,000 to 83,000, upper
secondary enrollments (grades 10-11) from 105,000 to 70,000 and vocational education from
42,000 to 20,000 (this latter according to figures in the National Observatory stock-taking report
for ETF). Decline in secondary education appears to be more accentuated in urban areas at about
14.5% versus about 9% in rural areas. Declining birth rates, exclusion of South Ossetia and
Abkhasia students from current statistics, internal migration and increase in private school
enrollment (reported about 10,000 student in grades 1-11 in 1997) can account for some of this:
however, the magnitude of the decline can be an indication of other factors intervening (see
Annex 11 for basic education statistics and trends).
Misalignment of education system objectives. Every nation faces the challenge to define what
the goals of education should be and how to educate its children. What was defined as desirable
education outcomes during the Soviet system may not necessarily be the same as what is
desirable today in Georgia. In the past, the external efficiency of the vocational/technical
education and higher education sub-systems were virtually perfect because the State employer
specified its manpower requirements and guaranteed employment in the field of study to all
those educated/trained under the State system. The Government has recognized that this is no
longer valid and has begun to introduce changes in line with new market and society demands. In
secondary education, more hours to foreign language instruction have been added, the hours
allocated to Russian language have been reduced, the hours for Humanities increased, and new
subjects like Religion and Culture have been introduced. One of the major initiatives has been
the development of new curriculum and study programs for all subjects in basic education.
These new curricula show an awareness of the importance of developing students skills in
addition to factual knowledge. However, they require further work to be truly effective in
guiding the process to the expected and desirable learning outcomes. The new curricula still
-4 -



reflect a highly overloaded and fragmented program that provides limited time to foster the skills
expected to enable students to be critical thinkers and problem solvers, has a strong emphasis on
inputs rather than outcomes, shows no indications for different levels of student achievement and
provides no guidance for teachers on how to implement them. (See "Curriculum and Standards
in Georgia" and Review commissioned to the London Institute of Education on Curriculum and
Standards in Georgia). The VET curriculum has remained untouched so far. In higher
education, many university departments do not state explicitly what their aims and objectives
are. The absence of clear mission statements makes it impossible to evaluate performance
because there is no benchlnark against which operations or outcomes could be measured.
Teaching practices not aligned with new standards. In the past, teachers were trained to
deliver one curriculum that reflected a very positivist view of knowledge, where there was only
one truth and that was contained in a single textbook. Students were seen as passive recipients
whose major duty was to absorb all factual knowledge that the teacher presented during the
lesson. A good student was one who could memorize and repeat the lesson. As a result of this
model, direct observation of Georgian classrooms today show that regardless of grade, subject,
region or urban/rural distinction a similar teaching pattern is followed (See Study on Teaching
Practices and Assessment of Training Needs). A typical lesson (40-50 minutes) starts with the
teacher taking attendance, follows with the teacher going over homework answers, then the
teacher proposes more exercises or asks questions and introduces a new concept/lesson following
word by word the textbook. The lessons ends with more homework assigned. The students
during the lesson are expected to copy, repeat, recall, compare and apply forrnulas. This kind of
teaching can be described as of low cognitive complexity, centered on the text and not on its
transferring potential, good enough for children to obtain high marks in international tests that
assess those skills but not good enough for fostering higher cognitive skills such as
understanding and developing critical and independent thinking. A similar pattern is also
observed in higher education, where students overwhelmingly report teaching that does not
invite their input or feedback (see Report on Higher Education).
The goals expressed in the new curriculum and attainment targets present enormous challenges
to current teaching practices. Reflecting a more constructivist view of knowledge, in order to
meet those new goals, teachers are expected to become facilitators of the student individual
process of knowledge generation. This requires teachers that have expertise in the subject
discipline but that also have a set of skills to be able to guide students in their individual search.
It also requires a supportive environment that assists the teacher and provides on-going
opportunities for discussion and reflection among colleagues. In addition to the changes required
in practices and beliefs, the present situation of teacher qualifications in Georgia is not optimal
and shows considerable variation on the availability of highly qualified teachers among regions,
levels of education, subjects, and type of schools. The results of the recent teacher certification
show that regions like Mtkheta-Mtianeti, Achara, Kakheti, Racha Lechkhumi and Guria have
consistently a larger share of "Superior" teachers, while other regions like Shida Kartly and Non-
Georgian school have the lowest share of highly qualified teachers in all subjects. In addition,
there also seems to be a lower share of "Superior" teachers in the early grades (1-4) of primary
school. The situation is aggravated by lack of resources that have resulted in a drastic decline of
teachers participating in in-service training courses (e.g. from 7,380 in 1988 to 580 in 1997 at the
Central Re-training Institute in Tbilisi). The Government's effort to re-certify teachers will need
to be accompanied by more consistent and sustained efforts on in-service teacher training
interventions to effectively address these challenges (see Teachers and Teaching Practices in
Georgia).
5-



Insufficient and inadequate learning materials and learning environments. In order to attain
those new learning targets, appropriate learning materials and learning environments need to be
provided. Since the early 1990's, the MoE has virtually provided no funding for textbooks and it
is now Government policy that all school textbooks should be funded by parents via direct
purchase. This has led to significant under-supply of textbooks, which is accentuated in the
upper grades where more books with higher prices are required. According to MoE data, about
75% of students in grades 1-4 have access to all textbooks, while the number goes down to 50-
60% for grades 5-9 and 25% for grades 10-11. In general, textbooks appear better provided in
urban than in rural areas. There appears to be interest in promoting the development of
alternative textbooks but current government policies do not addresses equity issues (see IBD
Report on textbook provision in Georgia). The Government has initiated a competitive process
for developing new textbooks to meet new curricula. With the sponsorship of the Open Society
Georgia Foundation, a new regulatory framework is being piloted to obtain MoE griff/approval.
The challenges ahead are not only limited to developing a financially sustainable, effective, and
equitable system for the provision of textbooks to schools, but also widening the type, quality of
the content and availability of learning materials to be in line with the new curriculum standards
and pedagogy.
The lack of funding has certainly had a negative impact on the quality and maintenance of
school facilities. Because of the lack of recurrent funds to maintain the extensive education
infrastructure, often combined with poor standards of original construction, many buildings have
deteriorated to the point where the necessary rehabilitation or replacement would entail major
capital expenditure. It was reported in 1997 that 18% of school buildings are in dangerous or
unusable condition, while a further 55% needed significant capital repairs, up from 8% and 37%
respectively in 1991-92. The school level database of the MoE Center for Informatics records
70% of rural schools and 84% of urban schools in serious need of repair or reconstruction in
school year 1997-98. Based on the typical costs of school building rehabilitation under the
Social Investment Fund, the total bill for restoring all general day school buildings in the country
could be in the region of US$200-250 million. While budgetary allocations for maintenance and
repair are negligible, this figure will continue to escalate as more buildings reach the point of
needing major reconstruction. The cost of heating spacious and poorly insulated school buildings
is not yet reflected in the education budget as, in most cases, heating systems are no longer
functional; these costs are borne mainly by parents who contribute wood (in rural areas) or
kerosene to fuel temporary stoves in each classroom ("The Georgian Education System: Issues
for Reform and Management"). In addition to the absence of routine building maintenance,
specific regions in Georgia have been particularly hit by earthquakes and civil war, which have
left a number of schools totally unusable. A number of those schools are forced to function in
temporary quarters, some of them in railroad cars or trailers. Most of the VET institutions have
been unable to repair or replace any equipment over the last seven or eight years and they are
now unable to provide the materials needed for practical lessons at the core of this type of
education. In higher education, students complain about the general degradation of classrooms,
laboratories, libraries, and sanitary facilities. Access to textbooks in HE is by comparison less
problematic than in the lower tiers of the system. This presumably reflects that the HE student
population comes from above-average income earning families (see Report on Vocational and
Higher Education, forthcoming).
Lack of reliable and systematic information on learning outcomes. There is a lack of
systematic and reliable information on student outcomes. Results of examinations at the end of
1th grade have become meaningless and there is no way of assessing how students are learning
- 6 -



in different parts of the country. This is also in part the result of the past system, with a strong
focus on inputs but not necessarily linked to outcomes. A high quality school was one with a
well maintained facility and equipment, a low student/teacher ratio, narrowly specialized
teachers, textbooks for all subjects, science and lab equipment, a library and a gym. Attention to
student learning was reflected in Olympiad winners, that is, the few students that could excel.
Not much attention was given to having all students learn, but rather to have all students in the
system. The new Education Law expects to introduce external assessment at the end of grades 6,
9 and final secondary grade. The final secondary exam is expected to replace university entrance
exams. There are no references and no experiences in the use of student learning outcomes to
monitor and inform policy-making as well as increase transparency and accountability towards
students, parents and society at large. The Government has recognized this area as critical for
the development of the system. A first attempt to assess student learning outcomes nationwide
was conducted at the end of the 98-99 school year for students in grades 6 through 9 in different
subjects (see report on Assessment of Student Outcomes). The experience evidenced the need to
develop local capacity in test development and analysis of results. A working group has been
created as part of project preparation and under the technical assistance of CITO (Dutch Agency
for Assessment) developed a 9th grade pilot test for math and mother tongue. The pilot test was
completed in May 2000 in a few schools in Tbilisi. The effort was coordinated with the British
Council that supported the initiative by providing technical assistance to add a pilot test of
English as a foreign language.
In higher education, students report that examination results are not always objectively assessed.
Reports indicate that practices vary from patronage to outright bribery. It is clear that these
practices are inherently counterproductive to allowing an objective assessment of learning
outcomes. They also question the viability of higher education in view of the quality-driven
demands of the global economy. Finally, they raise concerns of equity and equal opportunity (see
Report on Higher Education).
Inefficiencies in the use of resources: The norms and standards currently determining decision
making in terms of use of physical, financial and human resources are a legacy of the past and
still have a strong influence in shaping people's conceptions of what they consider to be high
quality or desirable. The generous use of space in school facilities, the lower student/teacher
ratios, the unit of lesson time per subject and grades, the qualification requirement for teachers
are just some of the examples that permeate the system and influence the use of resources.
However, today's reality is different: access to financial resources is limited, birth rates have
been declining, migration from rural to urban centers increased, younger and well qualified
teachers are inclined to leave the profession. Data indicate that overstaffing, underpayment and
lack of appropriate skills are key issues which impede the development of the sector. The
average student teacher ratio of 10 to 1 is one of the lowest in the world compared to a 15 to 1
average for OECD countries. The Government has initiated steps in the direction of improving
efficiencies in the use of resources and have expressed interest on developing a school mapping
exercise to guide school consolidation, tied teacher certification to increases in teacher salaries to
provide incentives for good teachers to remain on the job, and there have been discussions on the
need to improve the training of dual specialization teachers and multi-grade teaching. There is a
need to further refine thinking and capacity in this area in order to develop policies that will
make better use of resources without sacrificing quality learning for all students as well as
developing the capacity to target interventions to reach those most in need and address equity
issues. (See Georgia Education Strategy Note).
- 7 -



In higher education, university administrations do not collect and/or evaluate all available data to
support strategic planning and to monitor resource use. Management information systems are at
best rudimentary and generally non-existent. Unit costing hardly exists, making evaluations of
technical efficiency largely impossible. Hence, performance cannot really be assessed, either for
individual teaching programs or functional departments, let alone the institution at large. The
existence, size, and budget absorption of individual departments often does not reflect at all a
perceived or real market demand. Rather, their implicit purpose is to save staff from
unemployment. Clearly, there are sizable opportunity costs associated with addressing such
policy which is widespread in Georgian universities (see Report on Higher Education).
Low level of fiscal revenues at local level and lack of transparency in resource allocation:
From 1995 to 1998, about one third of public expenditures for education came from the Central
government while two thirds came from the local level (Rayons). In fact, the share of education
expenditures by Rayons has increased from 20.8% in 1995 to 36.7% in 1998. The 1998 budget
forecasted a total transfer of 48.26 millions Laris from the central budget to the Rayons. This
transfer represents about 40% of the total wage bill of teachers and 22.7% of education
expenditure for Rayons. Rayons have to support 77.3% of their education expenditures from
their own fiscal resources, but they control only 20% of the fiscal revenues of the country. The
split of responsibilities between central and local level does not appear fair and it seems to
contributes to delays in payment of teachers. In 1998, many teachers outside Tbilisi had not
been paid for several months. Recent information indicates that 7 Rayons have experienced 7
months delay or more, 14 between 4 and 6 months delay, 31 between one and three months and 6
without delays at all. As a results of this, 70% of the teachers are suffering from some arrears, a
factor that unless solved, will affects the support and credibility of any initiative to improve the
quality of the system. This matter was explored further by a study that investigated the causes of
these delays in a selected sample of 12 Rayons. The study suggests that teachers arrears are the
result of low capacity to collect fiscal revenues both at the central and local level and a general
lack of public revenues. It also confirms that the situation of Tbilisi is quite different from the
rest of the country, as there were no evidence of arrears in the capital. The issue is aggravated by
a unreformed intergovernmental fiscal system which permits diversion of resources and lacks
controls to prevent accumulation of arrears at the local level. (See Study on Causes of Teachers
Arrears).
The lack of transparency of criteria used for distributing resources to Rayons and the level of
earmarked transfers to education raises some important questions. In 1998, for 13 Rayons, no
funds were earmarked for education, assuming that they could generate locally enough fiscal
resources to deliver basic education services. In 1999, 5 Rayons received no central government
transfers at all, under the same rationale. This lack of transparency contributes to great
variability on average per pupil expenditures by Rayon. In 1998 they went from 70 Laris in
Kvareli to 279 in Ambrolauri, this latter receiving earmarked funds above the average. With 122
as the average for the country these variations cannot be totally explained by remoteness or low
student/teacher ratios.
In order to address the issue of delays in payment, the Government will have to consider an
increase in earmarked transfers for education, at least to finance all teachers salaries, or give to
the local level control over a higher share of fiscal revenue (at least 30%). These measures
should be accompanied by the development of transparent, stable and predictable criteria for
resource "allocation.
-8 -



Weak governance and management capacity: In its process towards a more democratic and
open society, Georgia is redefining roles and responsibilities at different levels. Some of the
recent changes attempt to strengthen executive power, increase efficiency of the Parliament, and
improve accountability by introducing locally elected bodies (Sakrebulos). The structure and
management of the education sector, as defined by the Education Law of 1997, identifies four
different levels of management: central government; 12 regional education departments; 68
district or "rayon" education divisions; and schools. Up to this moment, regional education
departments are only operating in 7 regions, and are conceived as branches of the MoE. The
Autonomous Republics of Adjara and Abkhazia have their own ministries of education. Since
the Education Law was adopted prior to local elections, it does not reflect the developments at
the village/community level (more than 1,000 of these), where local elected councils
(Sakreboulos) can create education committees.
Growing inequities: In its effort to reduce its expenditure and shift the financing responsibility
for parts of the education system the central Government has relinquished responsibility for the
financing of most preschool services, introduced fees for grades 10 and 11-with merit and some
means-based exemptions, and opened up the possibility of creating private schools. All these
measures have positive aspects but carry associated risks of increasing inequities in access to
school and quality education, since options are left to those than can afford it.
To increase resources channeled to the sector, public schools have been given the freedom to
collect additional resources from sponsors and parents, both in cash and in kind, as well as seek
alternative ways to generate resources like renting their facilities. However, a recent measure
prohibits schools to maintain accounts in commercial banks. They can only deposit their
additional revenues in individual accounts at the Treasury. It appears that this regulation is in the
process of being revised and schools will be allowed to have their own accounts at commercial
banks. In addition, unclear property laws make some principals in both urban and rural areas
reluctant to rent school space, because they don't know who the property belongs to. It is
difficult to accurately estimate the share of private expenditures on education. While the share of
household contribution to education can be considered relatively high (about 26.9%), its share
within GDP remain comparatively low (0.6%). The strong decline of public resources allocated
to education has not been compensated by a strong household investment. When the support
exist, it seems to be concentrated on the individual child, rather than on the support of schools,
which remain under-financed (See Cost and Finance in Education). Results from the Social
Assessment support this notion and also suggest that inequities among those in school are also
developing as a parallel system is appearing by which those parents that can afford to support
their children's education with private tutoring and improved learning environments (class space,
heating, etc.) do so. Parents who can support schools with additional resources become more
influential in school decisions and can get special benefits for their children.
Private sector development:
There are no regulatory constraints on private sector development in Georgia and a number of
private schools have been created in recent years. There is, however, a lack of data on the growth
of this sector as there is a sense that what is private is not/should not be linked in any way to the
government. There are quite a large number of higher education private institutions and
preschools that have appeared.
9-



In accordance with the Georgian Law on Licensing Entrepreneurial Activities, activities of
private education providers (both at secondary and tertiary levels) are subject to licensing. The
Ministry of Education is authorized to issue licenses and is expected to maintain the license
registry. Nevertheless, there is a lack of updated and reliable data on the growth of this sector.
The most recent available data (school year 1997-1998) indicates 116 private secondary schools
with total enrollment of 10 thousand pupils, 47 technicums (VET) with over 5,200 students on
their rolls, and 159 higher education institutions serving 40,200 students. In addition, about
26.1% of students enrolled in state universities pay for their tuition. Notably, fee-paying
enrollments in the public high education sector in 1997 were 132 per cent higher than in 1994
while non-fee paying enrollments rose only by 15 per cent over the same period. In the private
higher education sector, figures for new entrants dropped by 7 per cent. The number of private
pre-school institutions has been increasing as well, but official statistics in this field do not exist
as the majority of private kindergartens function informally and do not have any legal status.
Geographical differences:
Tbilisi school system is perceived to be in better condition than the rest of the country, according
to the Social Assessment: more resources, better qualified teachers, more support, and more
possibilities for schools to capture parental contributions. About 20% of students are enrolled in
Tbilisi. Of the total student population in secondary schools (714,638 in grades 1-11), about
53% attend 675 urban schools while the rest attend 2,500 schools located in rural areas. Rural
schools suffer from lack or limited access to better qualified teachers, less resources and limited
opportunities for raising additional revenue from the community, and have to endure more
deteriorating conditions. Other than the urban/rural distinction, an important factor to take into
consideration is school size, which is also associated with the high mountain regions. There are
895 schools with less than 51 students per school, serving 17,955 students, the largest share of
them in primary school (grades 1-4). They represent about 3% of the total student population
and about 5% of 1-4 total enrollments.
Ethnic minorities attending non-Georgian schools (about 107,211 students in about 502 schools,
about 15% of total schools and students) face specific problems, since they use textbooks for
some subjects from other countries, not necessarily relevant to Georgian curriculum. In addition,
their teachers are usually not well qualified to provide a proper instruction of Georgian language,
which leaves them later at a disadvantage when competing for places at universities.
Special Education: The Ministry of Education retains administrative responsibility for all special
education institutions in Georgia except two boarding houses for mentally and physically
disabled children which are under auspices of the Ministry of Health and Social Protection.
There are 8 orphanages sheltering 596 children and 34 special needs boarding schools with total
enrollment of about 6,252 pupils. The latter include special schools for chronically ill children
and children with specific health problems (scoliosis, asthma, etc.), also for blind and deaf
children.  The special schools receive fragmented humanitarian assistance from  different
international organizations. UNICEF is however the only international donor providing
comprehensive assistance to the Ministry of Education to support restructuring of special
education facilities and deinstitutionalization of children currently enrolled in such facilities.
Gender differences in terms of access to education are not evidenced as number of girls and boys
enrolled in secondary schools appear about the same (about 49% of total students are girls).
However, in some areas cultural traditions encourage girls to get married earlier and so their
- 10 -



likelihood of dropping out of school is higher. In rural areas, parents tend to have higher
expectation for boys to continue their studies than for girls but both boys and girls were expected
to help with production. Initial content analysis of the proposed curriculum for history suggests
that there is not sufficient attention to the historical contribution of women to society. Wages
however indicate a large gender gap of about 35% after controlling for job and individual
characteristics. This could be the result of segregation of women into lower paid jobs, more
unstable jobs, or salary discriminations. A clear evidence of this trend is the feminization of the
teaching force, as men have left the profession for better paid jobs (see Poverty Report).
Poverty: According to the recent Poverty Report, about 11% of the population in Georgia
remains poor and nearly 9% extremely poor. Poverty tends to be associated with employment
status and ownership of productive assets, with urban poverty being more widespread, deeper
and more severe than rural poverty, and more accentuated in some regions (Imereti, Guria,
Samtskhe Javakheti, Kvemo Kartli and Kakheti) than others. Teachers are at risk of being poor,
since they tend to suffer wage arrears which is one of the factors driving families into poverty.
Teachers tend to supplement their income with unreported activities, of which tutoring and
parent fees represent an additional source, particularly in urban areas.  Private returns to
education are strong and significant, especially for secondary education, which commands a
premium of about 30 percent over incomplete secondary. The earning differential between
complete secondary and higher are about 15 percent. However, there is a strong positive
association between education and being in the top income quintile on a sustained basis. One of
the challenges ahead is to address equity implications from a sector policy perspective, since
poverty issues tend to be perceived as the responsibility of other Ministries.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Through this program the Government aims to address:
i)    the misalignment of primary and general secondary education system objectives and
quality and relevance of student learning outcomes;
ii)   inefficiencies in the use of financial, physical and human resources;
iii)   growing inequities;
iv)   weak governance and management capacity.
The program designed reflects some strategic choices in terms of focus and scope. These
decisions took into considerations client identified priorities, technical issues, local capacity to
implement, and financial resources.
In shaping the program, the Government has carefully taken into consideration the perceptions of
a wide range of education stakeholders that identified financing and management issues as a
priority area requiring immediate attention and curriculum and pedagogy areas as priorities to be
addressed in the medium term. The program design has also been shaped by traditional
Georgian values that place quality learning at the center of attention.
Strategic Choices
The first critical decision was to limit the focus of this APC to primary and general secondary
education. While the needs are pressing at all levels, it was recommended by the Bank's team to
focus this first intervention on primary and general secondary as the type of quality reforms
- 11 -



envisioned by the program require full attention and commitment of human and financial
resources over a long period of time to be successful. Trying to do too much on too many fronts
at the same time and under the same lending operation would put at risk reform implementation
efforts.
The second critical choice was to focus on learning outcomes and not get involved on school
infrastructure repairs. Under the current regulatory framework, most school buildings are under
the responsibility of local government so it is not any more the MoE's role to overlook
maintenance and repairs. In addition, there is currently a Social Investment Fund financed by the
World Bank that is providing resources to improve schools through community and local
participation. Focusing on infrastructure would have put an unnecessary burden on the MoE that
might distract attention from the issues that are under its responsibility.  In addition, the
magnitude of resources required to address maintenance repairs was far beyond the amounts
available for this program.
After the scope and focus of the program were defined, the next set of strategic choices were
about how to address the misalignments of system objectives and related teaching and learning
issues. Three key ideas guided the strategy chosen: (i) shift attention from education inputs to
student learning outcomes, (ii) invest in teachers and (iii) involve teachers and schools in the
reform process early on. It was considered essential to generate information on learning
outcomes and disseminate it to parents, schools and communities in order to improve
accountabilities and address relevance issues. In order to improve outcomes, it was important to
focus on improving teachers effectiveness and enrich classrooms environments with learning
materials and textbooks to support the learning process. It also required the restructuring and
professionalization of the teaching force, nrghtsizing it, and developing a human resource policy
based on merit based recruitment and objective performance evaluation that could offer
appropriate incentives to attract and sustain good teachers in the system. In order to involve
teachers in the reform process and give them a chance to bring out their own ideas to improve
student learning it was decided to provide school grants. Through school grants, resources could
be transferred directly to the school to support innovations in teaching and learning.
This strategy requires developing a new national curriculum, restructuring the teaching force and
designing a system of continuous professional development for teachers, principals and
supervisors, providing learning materials to support the learning process and developing a
national assessment and examination system to assess whether students are meeting new
attainment targets and making this information available to education stakeholders.
Improvements in quality also require a more efficient use of physical, financial and human
resources, addressing inequities in outcomes and strengthening management capacity. This is
also in harmony with other ongoing work on Public Sector Restructuring which focuses on
increasing efficiency and effectiveness of state functioning (including system reorganization,
rightsizing of employees and improving incentives). During the first phase of the APC, it was
agreed to focus attention on improving the internal efficiency of the system, while equity and
external efficiency could be addressed on subsequent phases.
Attention will focus on developing capacity to make informed decisions at the central level,
developing new financial formulas and strategies for rightsizing intervention.
- 12 -



These recommendations were supported by the World Bank expert panel that reviewed the
Project Concept Document and Project Appraisal Document in two opportunities as part of the
Quality Enhancement Review.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
As mentioned before, the program has three phases of about four years each. The first phase
seeks to develop the institutional conditions and local capacity to design and introduce required
policies and interventions to realign system objectives and make more efficient use of resources.
During the second phase, designed policies will begin to be introduced, interventions
implemented and policies to improve equity will be developed. The final phase will seek the
consolidation of policies and changes introduced, generalization of interventions nationwide, and
development of policies to address extemal efficiency.
Phase 1: An institutional framework for the effective realignment of system  objectives and a
more efficient use of its resources is developed.
Phase 2: New institutional and policy framework to increase efficiency and quality in pnrmary
and general secondary education is implemented; equity policies developed.
Phase 3: Extension nationwide, consolidation, external efficiency issues begin to be addressed.
Triggers for each phase are presented in the following table.
Table 1: Links between Policies, Objectives, Actions and Tri ers
*  To develop tools andll
interventions to support thell
realignment of educati'on systemll
objectives
*  New national curriculum for *    New national curriculum for     New curricula for basic
primary and general secondary   primary education piloted (grades 1-4) education (grades 1-9) implemented
and discussed with schools, teachers  effectively in all schools
and community
*  Assessment and examination *  Reliable assessment of 4th and 9th -  Results of national assessment
system                       graders performance in Math and    of 4th and 9th graders used at least
Georgian completed at least once and  once to inform learning policies and
results analyzed and disseminated to  target interventions
schools, community and education
officials
*  Creation of school networks                                 |   40% of teachers participate in
and school based professional    At least 600 schools and 3,000    school network activities and
development activities       teachers participate in school based   introduce more active pedagogical
training                          practices in the classrooms
|   Establishment of school    |   At least 400 school learning grants |   At least 400 additional school
learning improvement grants    awarded                         learning grants awarded nationwide
|   Provision of learning    |   Supplementary learning materials |   Financially sustainable system
materials to schools          distributed to all schools in the country of textbook provision in place
- 13 -



To strengthen policy and
management capacity to improve
the equitable and efficient use of
financial, physical and human
resources
*   Efficiency in financial       New financing system and        *  Schools have autonomy in
resources                     formula for primary and general     managing resources related to the
secondary education developed and    teaching and leaming process
approved by Government to be
introduced during phase 2 including
required intergovernmental fiscal
relations reforms with modem legal
and institutional arrangements
*  Expenditures for primary and    *  Teachers salaries current and
general secondary education represent no further accumulated arrears
60% of the consolidated education
budget, salaries of teachers up to date
and arrears eliminated
Efficiency in physical    *  Methodology for more efficient   *  Number of schools decreased
resources                     use of school buildings and use of  as agreed in plan approved at the
surplus developed and incentive plan   end of phase 1
to encourage local governments to
consolidate schools ready to be
introduced during phase 2
*  Efficiency in human        *  Action plan and incentives to    *  Student/teacher ratios
resources                     increase student teacher ratios to 16/1  increased to an average of 14/1
by 2010 approved by Government and
ready to be introduced during phase 2
*  Better qualified and paid  *  Amend laws and regulations for   *  Teacher certification system
teachers                      the education sector to provide for (a)  based on professional standards
merit-base recruitment, (b) objective   and accreditation program for pre
performance evaluation, (c) revised    service operational, average
and transparent pay                teacher salary increased according
to plan agreed as trigger for phase
* Action plan for phased increase of I.
teachers remuneration
- 14 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component A: Realignment of the Primary and General Secondary System Objectives
The objective of this component is to realign the objectives of the primary and general secondary
system to deliver a quality and relevant education to its students and improve learning for all.
The strategy will combine strengthening the role of the MoE by providing it with specific tools
to guide and monitor the outcomes of the system and at the same time, by strengthening the
school to effectively manage and deliver the learning process and promote innovations from the
bottom up. This will be accomplished by: (a) development and implementation of an outcome-
based national curriculum for primary and general secondary education; (b) development of a
national assessment and examinations system and effective dissemination of results; (c)
professional development of primary and general secondary education teachers, principals and
methodologists; (d) establishment of school learning improvement grants; (e) establishment of a
textbook rental system; (f) increasing access to learning materials in schools.
This component will finance the following: (a) technical assistance for the development of
national curriculum and related attainment targets for primary and general secondary education;
(b) publication and dissemination of national curriculum to education stakeholders; (c) minor
office equipment and related supplies for the establishment of a curriculum unit within the
Ministry of Education; (di) technical assistance to develop a system of national assessment and
examinations; (e) provision of required equipment for the National Assessment and Examination
Center (NAEC); (f) minor repairs of NAEC; (g) operating costs of the NAEC, including the costs
related to the implementation of assessment for grades 4 and 6 and examinations for grade 9 and
final grade; (h) technical assistance for the design, training and development of training materials
for teachers, methodologists and principals; (i) minor office equipment and related supplies for
the establishment of a teachers professional development unit within the Ministry of Education;
(j) publication and dissemination of training materials for teachers and trainers; (k) minor repair
of Resource Centers (RC's); (1) office equipment for the setting up of the RCs; (m) simple
machines for duplication to be distributed to all schools as part of the Raising Awareness
Workshops; (n) school learning improvement grants; (o) technical assistance for improving
textbook quality as well as establishing a textbook rental and monitoring system; (p) office
equipment and furniture for enhancing the capacity of the Textbook Department of the Ministry
of Education; (q) sets of selected textbooks for pilot rental system; (r) sets of supplementary
learning materials like visual aids and kits for elementary grades, science kits for upper grades,
classroom libraries; and (s) study tours and learning events in related areas, including the renting
of space, payment of per diem allowances, and transportation for the participants.
Component B: Strengthening Capacity for Policy and Management
This component aims to strengthen the management capacity at central and local level to make a
more effective, efficient and equitable use of human, financial and physical resources, begin to
implement interventions in a few districts to improve efficiency, and develop the required tools
to improve decision-making, transparency and accountability. The activities supported include:
(a) development and implementation of policies to improve efficiency and transparency in the
use of financial, human, and physical resources and quality learning for all by developing tools
- 15 -



like new financing formula and funding mechanisms, new staff management policy, school
mapping and consolidation plans, and new standards for school buildings and maintenance; (b)
develop a plan to restructure the teaching force and a strategy for its implementation; and (c)
development and implementation of an effective and reliable EMIS.
This component will finance: (a) technical assistance and training in education policy
development, analysis and management, school mapping, new standards for school building
design and maintenance, teacher incentives, education finance, organizational development; (b)
technical assistance to develop a strategy to restructure human resources in the education sector
as well as procedures and mechanisms for implementing it; (c) office equipment and furniture for
establishment a department of policy and planning within the MoE; (d) technical assistance for
the design and implementation of an EMIS; (e) provision of required hardware and software
equipment for EMIS; (f) provision of office equipment and furniture to support the EMIS
consultancy group, the establishment of a Statistical Department within the MoE, and other
related MoE departments such as the human resources department; and (g) participation of key
policy makers and MoE staff in international study tours, internships, the granting of one
fellowship for a Masters in Education Policy and short termn studies abroad as well as
organization of learning events in Georgia.
Component C: Project Management Support
The objective of this subcomponent is to support project implementation by ensuring: (i) project
activities are well coordinated; (ii) issues affecting or potentially affecting project
implementation are identified in a timely manner; (iii) technical advice is provided to project
components in critical areas of project management, such as how to develop work plans, write
terns of reference, and effectively manage consultant services; (iv) necessary project inputs are
provided in a timely and cost-efficient manner; (v) project resources are appropriately managed
in accordance with Bank requirements for procurement and financial management; (vi) effective
project monitoring and progress reporting is carried out; and (vii) there is systematic out-reach to
various stakeholders to promote project objectives.
To achieve this objective the component will finance: (a) technical assistance and training for
the PCU staff in project management, procurement, financial management and disbursement, and
in key software programs such as the selected project management software and the financial
accounting package; (b) technical assistance and a series of modular training programs for all
implementation staff focused on project, human resources, and financial resources management;
(c) consultant fees of the professional-level staff that will comprise the Project Coordination
Unit; (d) necessary office equipment and furniture; (e) vehicles; (f) the completed rehabilitation
of the Ministry of Education's main building (the "Education Center") which will house all
project-related Departments and implementation staff; (g) incremental operating expenses of the
PCU including communication costs, banking fees, transportation costs, minor office equipment
and supplies, office security systems, equipment maintenance, support-level staff of the PCU;
tender and other advertisements, in-country travel of the PCU staff and audit fees; (h) technical
assistance to support the implementation of a long-term public information and education
strategy, including the development of mass advertisements and programs; (i) office equipment
and furniture to enhance the capacity of the MoE's press center; (j) publication and dissemination
of brochures, pamphlets, and newsletters regarding the reform program; and (k) mass media air-
rime and billboard space.
- 16 -



1. Rtealig-nment of the System  Secondary       20.55       65.4         16.76      64.7
Objectives                    Education
2. Strengthening Capacity for  Institutional     5.35       17.0          4.54       17.5
Policy and Management         Development
3. Project Management Support    Other           5.50       17.5          4.60       17.8
Education                                          .      -
Total Project Costs                31.40      100.0         25.90      100.0
Total Financing Required              31.40      100.0         25.90      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The program will support development and implementation of the following key policies:
Improve the quality and relevance of all student leaming in primary and general secondary
education by redefining learning outcomes, training teachers to attain those targets,
supporting the learning process by providing learning materials, and assessing outcomes to
increase accountability at all levels;
* Improve effectiveness, efficiency, equity and transparency in resource allocation by
developing new financing formulas, career incentives for teachers professional development,
increasing student teacher ratios, cost-effective use of school infrastructure, and sustainable
provision of quality learning materials.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct beneficiaries of the 2001-2013 program include all children who will be reached by
inputs and through training of their teachers and principals under the program. More broadly, all
children in primary and general secondary education will benefit indirectly from more efficient
education services as the result of institutional strengthening activities supported under
component 2. This currently represent about 715,000 students in grades 1-I 1.
Indirect medium term benefits of the program will accrue from improved efficiency and equity in
the management and delivery of educational services. Through technical assistance provided
under the program, the capacity for policy analysis, planning and management will be
strengthened at each level accordingly.
Long term benefits are derived from the projected improvement in quality leaming as a result of
a better program of primary and general secondary education.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The first phase of the Program, the Project financed under the First APC, will be implemented in
about 4 years. The Ministry of Education (MoE) will be responsible for implementing the
Project on behalf of the Georgian Government. Various departments of the Ministry will have
direct line-responsibility for specific components. The Ministry will be supported by a Project
Coordination IJnit (PCU), that will be established as a legal entity, subject to public law. The
- 17 -



PCU will be officially established by Presidential Decree, with the President appointing the
Director of the PCU upon the Minister of Education's recommendation (following a competitive
selection procedure acceptable to the Bank). Subsequent oversight of the PCU according to its
Charter will be delegated to both the Ministry of Education and to the Ministry of Finance, each
Ministry  having  authority  over  their  specific  areas  of  responsibility  (project
implementation/management and project financing, respectively).
The strategic governance of the Project would be provided by a "Project Management
Committee" chaired by the Minister of Education and, in upon his delegation, the First Deputy
Minister of Education (also considered the "Project Leader"). The PMC consists of all Deputy
Ministers, key heads of Departments and heads of agencies essential for project implementation
(each person designated as a Subcomponent Leader as noted below). The Subcomponent Leader
may designate someone to attend in his or her place in the case of his or her absence from the
meeting. This Project Management Committee (PMC) would meet at least one a month and
would (i) adopt an annual work program and budget for the entire Project; (ii) assess the physical
progress of project implementation; (iii) evaluate the physical progress in terns of its impact on
project objectives; (iv) make necessary recommendations on changes to project design or
sequencing, especially those that require inter-Component reallocations or other changes; and (v)
establish specific Working Groups (with appointed Chairpersons) or appoint specific "Advisors"
with appropriate Terms of Reference to work on various cross-component or generic Project
issues as the need may arise. The Director of the PCU (supported by the Component A and B
Coordinators) will act as the Secretary of the PMC. The Secretary of the PMC will ensure that
agenda is established prior to each meeting and minutes are recorded of each meeting,
specifically noting decisions reached, decisions pending, the person responsible for following up
the issue further, and the deadlines established.
There will be a specific Deputy Minister, Department Head or an Agency Director responsible
for implementing each subcomponent. They will be designated as Subcomponent Leaders. The
Subcomponent Leader will be responsible for: (i) ensuring that all necessary actions needed to
achieve the sub-components' objectives and activities are undertaken with due diligence; (ii)
ensuring that appropriate attention is received by the MoE's management, the Bank, the PCU, or
other agency for problems and potential problems facing the sub-component implementation;
(iii) supervising their respective working "units" including the development of Terms of
Reference (TOR), chairing the selection committees, evaluating performance; (iv) proposing and
monitoring the implementation of the annual Work Plan and Budget of the sub-component; (v)
ensuring that the requested assistance, including goods and consultant services, is in line with
sub-component needs; (vi) supervising consultants, including accepting consultant reports and
approving consultant invoices; (vii) accepting the goods received; (viii) monitoring and reporting
on the quantity and quality of the inputs received; (ix) reporting on Project progress, collection
and provision of information related to the progress of the project towards meeting its
Development Objectives; and (x) ensuring proper coordination with other Project sub-
components, including exclusively MoE-funded, and other Donor-funded activities.
Each Subcomponent Leader will be supported by specific working "units", which are either
comprised of (i) 2-4 professional level long-term local consultants; (ii) staff of a small MoE
Department; and/or (iii) staff of that specific Agency, with skills and experience relevant to the
subcomponents. The "units" responsibilities will include providing professional advice to the
sub-component Leaders and providing the human resources to plan and implement the
responsibilities of the Leader, as listed above.  The Head of each Unit may given the
- 18 -



responsibility of preparing all actions mentioned above for the Subcomponent Leader, for the
Subcomponent Leader's review and clearance.
The PCU will be responsible for ensuring that project activities are well coordinated. The PCU
will be established as a separate legal, state entity that will be directly supervised by the Ministry
of Education and Ministry of Finance. The Director of the PCU will act as the Subcomponent
Leader of the Project Coordination Unit subcomponent and will assume the responsibilities
mentioned above for the Leader, in addition to other related functions of the PCU as described
below. To achieve these functions the PCU will be staffed with the following professionals:
Project Director; Component A Coordinator; Component B Coordinator; Lawyer; Financial
Management Officer, Financial Assistant; Disbursement Officer; Procurement Officers (2);
Procurement Assistant; Office Manager/Administrative Assistant. As well, the PCU will be
supported by an office assistant and drivers. Specific skills may be hired to assist in specific
implementation issues and will be contracted under short term contracts. The terms of reference
for the staff are included in the Project Implementation Plans of the Project Management
Component.
The PCU will be responsible, among other things, for (i) consolidating financial and working
plans of each component; (ii) monitoring project progress and ensuring that the appropriate
attention by the relevant authority is provided to possible or actual problems; (iii) analyzing
options and proposing solutions for implementation issues; (iv) acting as a resource to the MoE
and project implementation staff with regard to various implementation aspects, such as how to
develop annual work plans, how to write terms of reference, procurement and financial
procedures; (v) ensuring that necessary project inputs are provided in a timely and cost-efficient
manner; (vi) project resources are appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements
for procurement, financial management and auditing; (vii) effective project monitoring and
progress reporting is carried out; and (viii) there is continuous access to information about
project progress by education sector stakeholders and interested suppliers and consultants.
Furthermore, the PCU will undertake procurement of works, goods and services required for the
project; operate the special account, project and transit accounts, handling disbursement of
proceeds from the IDA Credit, Government counterpart funds, and possibly funds provided by
other co-financiers. As a separate legal entity, the PCU Director will have signatory authority
for all contracts financed under the Project. However, Ministerial approval will be required for
all contracts over a specified threshold, in accordance with the Operating Procedures of the PCU.
The signature of the PCU Director together with the signature of either the First Deputy Minister
or Minister of Education will be required for each Withdrawal Application submitted to the
World Bank.
The following table depicts the project management arrangements.
- 19 -



Project Management Committee (PMC)
Chairperson:       Minister of Education
Other Membership:  Deputy Ministers, Department Heads and Head of Agencies responsible and are integrally involved in Project
implementation. This includes: the First Deputy Minister, the Deputy Minister in charge of Finance, Deputy Minister in charge of
Secondary Education, Deputy Minister for Intemational Relations and Public Affairs, the Head of the Department for Preschool
Education, Schools, Boarding Schools and Children's Rights, the Head of the Textbook Department, the Director of the National
Assessment and Examination Center, the Director of the Project Coordination Unit, the PCU Component A Coordinator and the
PCU Component B Coordinator (other areas to be confirmed are legal counsel, department of Foreign Affairs/Intl Economic
Relations).
Secretary:         Director of the Projec Coordination Unit (wi h support from two Component Coordinato s)
Leader for         Leader for           Leader for           Leader for         Leader for          Leader for
Subcomponent       Subcomponent A2:  Subcomponent A3:  Subcomponent             Subcomponent        Subcomponent
Al:                Assessment and       Teachers Training    A4: Textbooks &   BI: Policyand        B2: EMIS
Curriculum         Examinations                              Learning           Planning
Development                             Head of the Depart.   Materials                             First Deputy
Director of the      For Preschool                           First Deputy        Minister
Deputy Minister    Assessment Center   Education, Schools   Head of the         Minister
responsible for                         & Children's Rights  Textbook
primary and                                                  Department
general second
education
Subcomponent Al  Subcomponent A2    Subcomponent A3    Subcomponent A4   Subcomponent B I   Subcomponent B2
Unit:              Unit:                Unit:                Unit:              Unit:               Unit:
A Curriculum       An Assessment        A Policy and         A Textbook and     A Policy and        An EMIS Unit,
Unit consisting of   Team within the    Planning Unit for    Learning Material   Strategy Unit      consisting of four
3 long-term        Center consisting of  the Professional    Component will    consisting of three   long-term
consultants will be  7 professional-level   Development of   be established and   MoE staff         consultants, will be
established        staff, not including    Teachers consisting   consist of 2 full-    members will be  established and
the Director of the    of a head of the unit  time           established. They    will be at least
Center, and 4        and 4 other          professionals, I   will be supported    located in the same
support staff will be   professional level  assistant, and 4  by three long-term    place as the Policy
established          staff will be        part-time          technical experts    and Planning Dept.
established          promotional/       for specific issues   to facilitate
_________________  ___________________  ___________________   monitoring   staff                    coordination
Project Coordination Unit
Consists of the following personnel and functions:
PCU Director: Leader for Subcomponent Cl, Manager of the PCU Organization and Staff, Secretary of the Project Management
Committee, and Reports to the First Deputy Minister of Education.
Component A Coordinator and Component B Coordinator: Provide technical assistance to the subcomponent Leaders and Units in
developing work plans and budgets, writing terms of reference, criteria for selecting consultants, and supervising consultants.
Looking for opportunities and challenges to coordination the actions of the various subcomponents and taking the necessary steps to
facilitate the coordination.
Procurement (3), Financial Management (3), and Administration (2): Will provide general procurement, financial and logistical
support all of the subcomponents of the Project. Will work closely with the Component Coordinators to identify the necessary
information and actions needed to proceed with procurement and financial transactions.
Leader for Subcomponent C2: Publication Information/Education
Deputy Minister for International Relations and Public Affairs
Subcomponent C2 Unit Consists of a Public Relations Officer(s) that will operate functionally as part of the Press Center. Will need
to work with all of the subcomponent Leaders and coordinate publication information / education activities so that the reform
message is consistent and targeted.
- 20 -



Project Financial Management. A satisfactory project financial management system is in
place within the PCU where project disbursement, accounting and financial/progress reporting,
as well as monitoring activities, will be centralized. The PCU is already staffed with a group of
core consultants (Director, Financial Management and Procurement Officers, and Administrative
Assistant) and other administrative staff will be hired when project activities will start. A locally-
developed accounting software (ORIS), customized for Project Management Report (PMR)
preparation, is up and running. Records and accounts for the project will be maintained in
accordance with the borrower's regulations as well as with standards and practices satisfactory to
IDA, consistently applied and adequate to reflect the resources, operations and expenditures
related to the project. The functioning of the accounting software is documented in the Financial
System Manual. The PCU will be responsible for maintaining accounting records, preparing
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) and annual Project Financial Statements, which
will be audited annually and audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
Disbursements of Credit funds would be made, for the first phase of the APC, on the basis of
traditional disbursement procedures. For the teacher training activities, funds would be
transferred by the PCU into a separate account within the commercial bank where the local
administration's education department receives budgetary funds from the Treasury, to ensure that
project funds are not combined with any other resources and ease the tracking of the relevant
bank account operations (movements and balances). The Local Education Departments (LEDs)
would be involved in administer the funds for the local training organizers and participants,
based on an agreed budget and terms of reference (training plans). The funds would have to be
accounted for through documented evidence of expenditure (i.e. bank account statements and
receipts) and all eligible expenditures would be replenished on a monthly basis.
Detailed disbursement and f'inancial management arrangements are described in Annex 6.
Audit: Project records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year will be audited, in
accordance with standards acceptable to IDA, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. A certified copy (original) of the audit report will be submitted to IDA no later than
six months after the end of' each fiscal year. The contract for the audit of the project financial
statements will be awarded competitively (in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines)
under TORs approved by the Association. The TOR of the auditors will take into account the
specific financial management aspects of the Project by including: a physical inventory of the
equipment to ensure that it is located on the premises of the intended beneficiary and is
operational; an audit of the use of funds and control mechanisms in place for disbursement and
usage of funds at the local education departments level; an audit of the reasonableness of the
costs of goods and materials procured under the School Grants; and an audit of the financial
statements of the National Assessment and Examination System. Interim and operational
reviews will also be conducted. The financial reporting and auditing arrangements were
confirmed during Negotiations.
Procurement Arrangements.  As the first IDA operation in the Education sector, the
procurement arrangements under the project are primarily based on IDA appraisal of the existing
procurement management capability of the Ministry of Education, and its implementing
institutions including the PCU. Experience and lessons learned from two ongoing IDA
operations in the HD sector, namely, Georgia Health Project and the Social Investment Fund
Project, have been factored into the design of the implementation and procurement management
- 21 -



arrangements. A draft Procurement Action Plan has been drawn, which provides a menu of
actions and recommendations to build procurement capacity in the PCU as well as the other
agencies which have responsibility for the execution of the project components, and therefore
will be involved in the procurement process. The two PCU Procurement Officers will be closely
mentored by a Consultant Procurement Expert who would be contracted by the project for an
aggregate 8.5 months over a period of two years. The hiring of a Procurement Assistant is
included in the Project as a possibility, subject to workload considerations. The Procurement
Expert will assist PCU develop procurement documentation that conform to IDA requirements,
procurement monitoring instruments as well as an appropriate record keeping system for contract
management that will dovetail with the financial management requisites for the project.
Procurement and disbursements under the first phase of the APC are synchronized in a manner
allowing for a six-month disbursement lag from the time of completion of a Credit-funded
activity to the release of the Credit funds to the supplier/contractor. Annex 6 - Procurement and
Disbursement Arrangements provides details of the procurement procedures to be followed
under the project including review thresholds and the Procurement Capacity Building Action
Plan. A detailed Procurement Plan is included in the Project Implementation Plan and will be
updated not less than semi-annually.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In discussing options to address the objective of realigning and strengthening the system, a
number of alternatives were considered. The following section summarizes the reasons why
certain alternatives were rejected in favor of the approach adopted in the project.
(a) APC vs. LIL vs. traditional investment loan. The team discussed with the Government the
pros and cons of the different lending instruments available. The initial attraction about the LIL,
in terms of accessing some resources more quickly was rejected in favor of an APC that would
provide the right framework to address in-depth reforms, have a long term vision while
providing the flexibility to adjust as seen more fit over time.
(b) System focus phased, rather than fragmented interventions. The project has chosen to
define a policy framework for the system of primary and general secondary education rather than
a fragmented approach of specific interventions. The challenges encountered required to look at
the system as a whole, and fragmented interventions would only lead to partial results.
(c) National project versus focus on selected geographic areas: The realignment and
strengthening of the system requires developing new tools for all: national curriculum,
assessment and examination system, EMIS, school mapping, etc. Intervention in subsequent
stages could develop strategies to address specific problems that arise for instance between
urban and rural areas or between more or less advantaged schools.
(d) Outcome oriented versus input focus: The project has made a special effort to shift attention
to learning outcomes, essential for the realignment of the system, rather than providing
additional resources to supplement inputs that would maintain the status quo. Dissemination of
results of assessment to parents, schools and communities has special emphasis in order to
increase accountability.
- 22 -



(e) Learning and policy focus versus infrastructure investment: There is no question that the
school infrastructure in Georgia could benefit from additional resources. Full repairs could take
five times the size of this credit. However, such massive investment would not improve the
opportunities of students to be better prepared to meet new economic and social demands. In
addition, responsibilities for school maintenance and repairs have been transferred to local
government. Effective coordination with other projects like the Georgia Social Investment Fund
(GSIF) and Municipal Development that are addressing infrastructure repairs is essential.
(f) Financially sustainable school-based textbook rental system provision versus centralized
provision of textbooks.  Given limited resources, it was necessary to develop financially
sustainable policies through school-based rental schemes involving the local community.
(g) Decentralization. Although the legal framework has somewhat been revised to move in a
more decentralized manner, reality is far from being consistent with such approach. It was
decided that dunrng phase 1 of the APC, attention will be put on strengthening the role of the
central level, defined within the new decentralized framework, and that subsequent phases will
support development of local and school levels. The policy work completed during phase I will
also guide implementation during phase 2 and support efforts towards more efficient and
effective management of resources at local and school level.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
1. Assisting the decentralization process Municipal Development    _     _           _  
at the central and local government
level:
- reforming the legal and regulatory
framework;
- greater transparency/accountability in
local governance;
- increase civil society's participation in
the decision making process.
2. Promoting improvement of financial
and administrative management as well
as in municipal investments:
- improved cost recovery and (local)
resources mobilization;
- increased local management capacity.
3. Supporting urgent local investments:
-creation of a coniducive enlvironmenit to
private sector involvement in service
provision;
-improved level and quality of services
through better infrastructure/
maintenance.                              _       _                __ . l
- 23 -



1. The project aims to supporlt          Social Investment Fund               S                     S
vulnerable groups among the Georgian
population by improving access to basic
social and economic services on a
sustainable basis through rehabilitation
of existing infrastructure where social
returns are highest and where basic
services would otherwise be inaccessible
to the poor, particularly in remote
mountainous areas. The Georgia Social
Investment Fund (GSIF) would improve
access to basic services by mobilizing
resources (public and private) and
channeling them through small
investments (microprojects) that have
high likelihood of generating sustainable
benefits.
2. The project's secondary development
objectives are to: (i) strengthen the
capacity of private, small-scale
contractors so that they can benefit
directly or indirectly from contracts
financed by the GSIF, and build the
capacity of communities so that they can
prepare and implement small projects;
(ii) generate employment by requiring
labor-intensive civil works in GSIF-
financed microprojects; and (iii) build
greater capacity for policy makers to
monitor and analyze trends in the level
and structure of poverty in Georgia.
1. Reorient the health system towards    Health                               S                     S
cost-effective public health interventions
like preventive and primary health care,
assuring, in particular, better quality care
for women and children, and focusing
the McH's activities on regulation of
public and private providers.
2. Rehabilitate selected facilities and
equipment that were down-sized and
dedicated to cost-effective provision of
maternal, perinatal, and pediatric care.
3. Develop human resources to support
health reform, through continuing
education for public health doctors,
family practitioners, nurses, health
administrators, and other personnel.
4. Support the development of an
independent health fund with regional                                          _
- 24 -



branches, In order to finance a packagei
of basic clinical ser-vices in a cost-l
effective and equitable manner.
Other development agencies
Step by Step: Preschoolers             SOROS/IIEP/OSGF
Parent-Teacher Association             Megaproject-1999-2001
New textbooks developmenit through
authors and publishers competition.
Identification of and support to       National Education
innovative projects aiming at          Program 2000
improvement of education practices at
secondary school level
Development and testing of 2-3 models   Education System
of democratic education structure,     Management
including drafting of standard charter for  Decentralization Program
public schools, and training of education   2000-20001
sector administrators to strengthen their
capacities to create and manage a
decentralized and democratic education
system.
Development and introduction of new    Higher Education
teaching methods and new courses in the  Support Program
files of social science and humanities.
Training of trainers to introduce active    UNICEF
leaming methodologies at secondary
schools, life skills promotion and
teaching of children's rights convention
at secondary schools.
Preparation of a new project on        UNICEF with co-
Integrated Education for Disabled      financing from Save the
Children.                              Children Fund
Support to deinstitutionalization of   UNICEF with cost co-
children at special education institutions   sharing from European
through reviews and adjustment of      Children Trust Fund
respective legal basis and training of
national resource in social work.
lP/D0) Ratings HS (Hlighly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 25 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Borrower ownership and stakeholders' participation: Borrower ownership and stakeholders
participation are essential to ensure the sustainability of projects. Efforts to build dialogue and
partnership in design and strategic choices for investments have been present all along, building
on experience gained through sector work. The voices of students, teachers, administrators,
employers, parents and communities have been included in the dialogue through preparation and
dissemination of social assessment, study on teaching practices, higher and vocational education
report, and through workshops and conferences that bring together different stakeholders. Efforts
to discuss and disseminate ideas to different stakeholders continued during project preparation.
More commitment to implementation is expected as a result of these efforts.
Institutional strengthening:   Other WB  financed projects have shown that adequate
institutional capacity and appropriate policy framework are key determinants of project success.
In the case of Georgia, a special focus will be needed to strengthen MoE's capacity to monitor
and evaluate quality, efficiency and equity of the system and make sound policy decisions on the
basis of the findings. As the country continues its process towards decentralization, attention
will be paid to strengthening capacity at each level in their redefined roles and improving
communication.
Simple project design and flexibility: Simplicity and clarity in design and flexibility in
implementation characterize successful projects. Project components should be limited and well
focused. The program in Georgia is ambitious in nature as it addresses the education system as a
whole. One of the challenges in its design is to be able to provide the right policy framework
while at the same time identifying a limited set of key interventions that could act as catalyst for
improving the system, without overwhelming the local capacity to manage the reform program.
Scaling down implementation and increasing implementation time were some of the solutions to
develop local capacity to undertake major reform. Even now, the implementation plan is
ambitious. However, the triggers for successfully concluding Phase I of the APC were limited to
the key activities necessary for progressing the agreed policy framework.
Clearly indicated and adequately supported project management: Key lessons leamed from
the Bank's portfolio in Georgia as well as elsewhere in the region indicate that (i) consultation
with stakeholders outside the Ministry during project implementation in essential to maintain
support built during a participatory preparation process; (ii) it is necessary to balance the
objectives of building agency commitment to the project and building project management
capacity in the public sector with the objective of establishing efficient, timely and transparent
project management procedures; (iii) the roles and responsibilities of those involved in project
implementation need to be clearly identified; (iv) project management arrangements should
balance the need of having specific technical coordinators for narrow components of the project
with the need to have flexible decision making arrangements so that necessary trade-offs
between components can be made and so that slow implementation of one component does not
unduly impact on the achievement of the projects objectives; (v) project management needs to be
adequately supported with funding, technical assistance and training; and (vi) counterpart funds
need to be adequately budgeted and funded. The proposed project management arrangements
(See Section C, Para. 4) incorporates the need for stakeholder involvement as well as technical
input and supervision while proposing effective management decision arrangements. The PCU
has been established as a legally independent entity; however, it will be a state entity directly
under the supervision of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance in their areas of
- 26 -



relative expertise. The respective roles of the PCU and MoE will ensure relative autonomy of
the PCU in its day-to-day operations to ensure timely and low transaction costs. At the same,
strategic and key decision-making is necessary by the Ministry of Education management and
staff. Component 3 of the project will provide the necessary financial and technical support for
project management. Counterpart funding requirements were carefully assessed during project
preparation. A Project Account has been established for the counterpart contribution for project
preparation as well as implementation. Disbursement by the Ministry of Finance of the project's
first quarter counterpart funding requirement to the Project Account will be a condition of
effectiveness.
Focus on teacher effectiveness and their professional development: The last ten years of
education research have attested to the importance of investing in teachers to attain any
significant changes in terms of student learning. Good teaching has been identified as the key to
school success and as the single most important measurable cause of increased student learning.
Teachers' effectiveness is based on their knowledge of subject matter, child development,
learning theory, curriculum development, teaching methods and opportunities to permanently
reflect about their practice. The project will address these issues through specially designed
school based professional development programs and supporting learning materials.
Teacher's involvement and public awareness: The political economy of education reform
recognizes the value of involving education stakeholders at different stages of reform to have a
successful implementation. Teacher support is essential to successful reform, since expected
changes and improvement in learning outcomes are dependent on teachers behaviors and
practices in the classroom. The training program for teachers will be designed in close
collaboration and consultation with them. A conference to discuss results of the study on
Georgian classroom practices, national and international models of in-service training took place
in October 1999 involving over 100 teachers, methodologists and principals from all over the
country. All along project implementations there will be instances for discussion and exchange
of experiences among teachers. Teachers' active involvement in the reform will be stimulated
among other things, by the establishment of school grants to improve student learning, by
designing a process of curriculum development that gives them opportunities to participate, and
by giving them room to choose among possible learning materials the ones most suited for their
school.
Focus on learning outcomes: The main ways in which governments can help improve the
quality of education are setting relevant expectations for learning, supporting inputs known to
improve achievement, adopting flexible strategies for the acquisition and use of inputs, and
monitoring performance. Due to political changes and growing awareness of the importance of
focusing on outcomes, a world-wide tendency emerges of national governments taking
responsibility for quality by setting specific attainment targets and monitoring educational
achievement, while delegating the responsibility for the use of inputs and the process of learning
to the schools. The project has put a special emphasis on developing an assessment and
examination system that suits the needs of the Georgian system and disseminating information
on results to stakeholders in order to increase accountability.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During all stages of sector work and project preparation to date, the Ministry of Education has
indicated commitment to reform. It has welcomed the Bank's team, discussed issues and
- 27 -



concerns with frankness, made available staff to work in partnerships with respective consultants
and provide resources and information as needed to facilitate preparation of background
documents.
The Project Implementation Plans have largely been prepared by local consultants under the
direct supervision of the Ministry of Education. In addition, draft Letters of Development Policy
as well as Statements with regard to Textbook Policy and Assessments were prepared for discussion with
the Bank during Appraisal.
Additionally, the MoE has selected the core group of staff that will consist of the PCU. These
consultants have been acting as a Unit of the MoE in the execution of the PHRD Grant for the
purposes of Project preparation. As the PCU was not legally independent during project
preparation, significant involvement of the MoE management was provided in terms of the
financial management arrangements and individual financial transactions. The MoE identified
office space and the MoF eventually provided the funds to renovate the space for the PCU.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
No other donor agency will provide either the technical or financial resources to support sector
wide reforms in Georgia. The Bank will play a role in strengthening institutional capacity of
Georgian education sector both at central and local levels thus creating a ground for further
sustainability of reform achievements. During the sector study and preparation work the Bank
provided for wide consultations with stakeholders and their participation in defining sector
strategy. By carrying out financial and economic analysis of the sector the Bank will contribute
to introduction of mechanisms for efficient, equitable and transparent allocation and use of
resource. At the same time, the Bank has the capacity to mobilize and coordinate other donor
support, providing an overall framework into which other donor contributions listed above can
be integrated. Meetings with other donors have been organized during each visit to keep all
actors informed of pace of activities and seek opportunities for collaboration.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4): Other (specify) NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Economic issues in Georgia can not be addressed in a classical way, such as rates of return,
relating education cost to higher income for graduates when employed, simply because the labor
market is not yet properly functioning. In addition, one is dealing with general education, for
which one has not really a choice between being or not being educated. It is quite different from
a project focusing on vocational training or higher education, for which one would have to
address the issue of the employment of students in the future, after graduation. Similarly, one is
not in a context where one has to justify the opportunity of giving basic education to all children,
because such an objective has been achieved for a long time in the country.
The program aims at helping the government use its resources more effectively. Annex 4
presents some of possible alternatives to consider to improve efficiency: student/teacher rations,
school mapping and priorities. The upcoming Public Expenditure Review exercise will address
some of these issues more in detail.
- 28 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5): NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The project does not intend to increase education supply. It aims at introducing a reform spirit
within existing institutions, to improve the effectiveness of the system as a whole, and to
facilitate its financial rehabilitation. But it does not create a significant new burden on the budget
by the creation of new institutions. One has to mention, nevertheless, the creation of a very
limited number of presently missing units, in particular an evaluation unit and a policy unit.
Recurrent costs of assessment and examinations system will be estimated and taken into
consideration in selection of appropriate system for Georgia. For the ten coming years, the APC
will support most of the additional expenditure generated by the operation of these two units.
After ten years, the impact of these units on the Georgian budget have to be seen in the context
of a budget significantly larger than the today' one. It has also to be seen in the light of the
progressive elimination or thinning down of existing units whose necessity has vanished. Finally,
the project has designed these new units in order to minimize fixed recurrent costs, and to
operate with a light structure, relying on flexible, fungible and adaptable budgets.
3. Technical:
(a) Curriculum, Assessment and Exams
An issue to address is assessing existing capacity.  Is there any knowledge/research on
curriculum development and above all education measurement, or does capacity have to be built
from scratch? Furthermore, national Assessment also depends on EMIS. To work out an
effective sampling design, there is a need to know which schools there are and, if random
sampling is not possible, to what classes according to specified variables. Validity and
reliability of assessment and examinations, role of assessment and examination results in an
accountability system  will have to be developed.  Public awareness and information
dissemination to different education stakeholders are essential elements that need to be taken
into account in developing implementation strategy. Institutional issues have to be addressed to
make sure there is effective coordination among areas and the vision of the system.
(b) Teacher, Principal and Methodologists Professional Development and Training
One important issue that has been identified as critical for a relevant design and successful
implementation of the project is stakeholders perceptions of what is "good and appropriate
teaching practices".  Investing resources in replicating a model from the past, that was
considered to be successful, would not be effective in facilitating the country's development. On
the other hand, changing people's perceptions and promoting a different understanding of the
issue that is appropriate for Georgia and meaningful to them requires a long-term strategic
process of collective reflections and permanent adjustment. The project has begun to address this
issue and contribute to develop a new definition of what is good practice in Georgia (and hence,
"good education") through the design and analysis of a study on teaching practices. The study
has collected data in 12 schools in the country on how teachers are teaching in the classroom,
through classroom observations, videotapes of lessons, and interviews. The design has built
opportunities for discussion with MoE officials and relevant stakeholders all along the process,
from its design, sampling, data collection completed by local researchers, and analysis and
interpretation. Results were disseminated to a larger audience of teachers and principals in
- 29 -



October '99. The workshop presented findings and a sample of videotaped lessons to engage a
discussion about what practices led to what outcomes and begin to define what is a desirable
outcome for Georgia and what type of system has to be put in place to get there. The strategy
designed takes into consideration the need to have on-going discussion and reflection on
classroom practices by creating school networks where teachers can have a professional dialogue
with their colleagues. Strategies that focus on developing collaborative environments, where
teachers can grow from working together, making use of case studies, techniques for eliciting
teacher existing knowledge, opportunities to learn about curriculum experience and to try out
different forms of teaching will guide the development of the program.
(c) Textbooks
Affordability of a set of textbooks for parents, especially those having several children at school.
Introduction of a rental scheme will help to make textbooks affordable, but the MoE has a role
also in limiting the number of approved textbooks, guaranteeing their status on the approved
textbook list for a defined number of years. The school has a role in stabilizing the choice of
textbooks so that it does not change each year. The basic challenge is in getting a school
textbook rental scheme started - providing durable textbooks in sufficient numbers so that
schools can generate an income to replace textbooks in subsequent years.
Affordability of a set of textbooks in remote rural schools andfor low income students. Even if
these schools are provided with sets of textbooks, the problem remains of how the school will be
able to generate income to replace and renew textbooks.
Support to publishers in helping them to publish good and inexpensive textbooks and to make
them available throughout the country. Publishers need assistance in moving from the Soviet to
a market economy system - rationale of textbook, choice of and guidance to authors, testing
textbooks for their suitability for schools, design of learning materials to maximize their
educational impact, marketing and assessment of the size of the market, distribution.
Regeneration of the school library. There is a significant cost in setting them up again. The
issue of the source of financing for replenishing the library stock also needs consideration.
Teachers and students need to be trained in the use of the library in teaching and learning.
Publishers need to know that there is a school textbook market with money to spend before they
will invest in the development of new library materials.
Quality of content of learning materials. Not only does the content of learning materials have to
be updated and revised to reflect the emerging market economy and curriculum of Georgia, but
the impact of research into the design of instructional text and of feedback from the users of the
materials must be incorporated into the texts at a sufficiently early stage.
Teacher involvement in textbooks within a market economy system should be focused on (i)
proper and realistic testing and evaluation before the textbooks are put on the approved list, (ii)
teacher input into the school's choice of the textbook to use from a choice of textbooks (both
imply teacher training in textbook evaluation), (iii) training of publishers in how to identify and
guide textbook writers and of teacher-authors in how to write textbooks, (iv) development of
feedback systems to the publishers so that textbooks may be revised in response to market
requirements (this includes both the schools and the MoE curriculum specialists).
- 30 -



(d) Policy Development
Restructuring of the Teaching Force
Technical analysis will guide the identification of possible alternatives for restructuring the
teaching force. Offering teachers the possibility of a severance payment option, or a retraining
grant with a cash option can be considered as possible options. Technical analysis on the
possibility to provide a severance payment should solve problems such as these:
* Choosing that selection process (mandatory versus voluntary) that minimizes adverse
selection;
*  Blocking the re-employment of those with severance packages;
* Choosing the means of severance (e.g., cash);
* Sizing the severance payments appropriately in the context of the country's legal
requirements for severance pay, and prevent the loss of best qualified teachers;
* Minimizing corruption, an issue that arises particularly if mandatory selection is used;
* Working out an agreement with the Ministry of Finance that savings from downsizing,
net of severance payments; stay in the sector conditional on their being reinvested in
productivity enhancing activities; and
* Costing out the exercise and identification of potential sources of financing.
EMIS
One of the key conditions for installing a successful and reliable EMIS is the ability of senior
management to clarify and organize EMIS functions and duties with proper institutional
arrangements, ask for the output it needs and overview its smooth operation.
Costs: present estimates are likely to decrease during implementation (particularly for the
computerization issue);
Sequence: focus at central level first stage;
Training needs, equipment: the equipment plan should follow the training capacity;
Links with decentralization: a pilot test of integration if regions and schools within the EMIS
investments has been included in Phase 1. The success of this test is a key condition for
establishing an integrated (computerized or not) EMIS Phase 2.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: (See Annex 12 for summary of Institutional Analysis, roles and responsibilities
of each level).
The Ministry of Education is the responsible Executing Agency on behalf on the Borrower. As
the main focus of the first phase of the APC is to build the capacity of the MoE and institutional
framework of the education system, it is not surprising that the current ability of the MoE to
govern and implement the Project is extremely limited. The Ministry does not have a functional
management system nor does it have the staff skilled with project, budget or human resources
management. As the education system including some core functions such as collection of
- 31 -



statistical information is fragmented, this also has a negative impact on the MoE's ability to
design and manage the Project in a coherent and systemic way.
It is proposed to address these weaknesses by: (i) providing technical assistance in the structure
and function of the Ministry of Education and related organizations within the Policy Planning
and Management Component; (ii) providing training through a series of modular courses to the
entire Project Management Committee and other relevant implementation personnel, especially
those designated as "Subcomponent Leaders", in subjects related project, budget and human
resources management with special attention focused on the beginning of the project funded
under a Project Preparation Facility, but also providing follow-up training during the course of
the project focused on issues designated as problem areas; (iii) designing the project
management arrangements such that they are not entirely inconsistent with the current
management style of the Ministry (i.e. highly vertical), but also so that they challenge the
Ministry to act a bit more strategically and also consult with those outside of the Ministry itself;
and (iv) limiting the expectations of the first phase of the APC to fairly modest achievements.
b. Project management:
As a condition of negotiations, the PCU was established as a legally independent, state entity by
decree of the President of Georgia. According to its charter, the PCU will be under the
supervision of both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance in the areas of their
respective expertise. The PCU has been functioning during the project preparation period as a
unit within the Ministry of Education which did not have its own juridical status. The evidence
of the project preparation period indicates that that would be an unacceptable means of
continuing project implementation due to the need to have (i) separate and verifiable financial
statements from those of the Ministry of Education; and (ii) more efficient financial management
procedures given the relative difficulty in having access to Ministry of Education management
for routine financial transactions.
The PCU currently consists of the core group of consultants necessary for it to act as a
functioning unit. It also has a minimum-level of necessary office equipment. The PCU has an
office space that will be effectively doubled during the PPF period to allow other staff involved
in implementation a location to work, until the rehabilitation of the main building of the Ministry
of Education is completed (which is take place during the first year of the project). The
electricity supply to the building is precarious, however, and until the rehabilitation of the
additional office space during PPF, it will not be possible to add a generator to this location. The
office space is also quite limited given the number of people working on this project. Therefore,
there may be a limitation on the number of people who can be hired to work on the project until
the office space problem is resolved.
The PCU has the potential for becoming a professional organization that could fulfill its role
under the project management arrangements, but it is not ready to meet its obligations at present.
In all areas there is need for capacity building, especially in terms of coordination, procurement
and in terms of assisting in the development of and critically assessing the proposals of the
others responsible for implementation (i.e. those of the "Subcomponent Leaders" and those in
the "units"). It is proposed that these weaknesses would be addressed in the following ways: (i)
providing significant amount of technical assistance and training in the areas of project
management, procurement, and financial management especially early during the project (i.e.
initially using PPF resources and then continuing extensively during the first two years of project
- 32 -



implementation) which would include on-the-job technical assistance by consultants with
previous bank experience, providing in-country training and training at well qualified
international institutions; (ii) complementing the existing core group of individuals with
additional professional-level staff that will assist in the coordination of Component A and B
respectively; and (iii) including other individuals involved in project implementation in project
management related training.
c. Financial Management
Given the complexity of the project's financial management arrangements and the perception of
the inherent risks deriving from the articulated flow of funds and associated administrative,
accounting and financial control routines, the following mitigation strategies are envisaged: (i)
interim (every six-months) as well as yearly full-fledged financial audits; and (ii) an operational
review at the end of the first year of project implementation. In order to detect and report to the
PCU on possible misuse of funds, the audit work will also comprise on-site inspections of
randomly selected Local Education Departments (LED) and Resource Centers (RCs) in different
rayons (on a rotational basis, aimed at progressively covering all LED's and RCs), to review
books, perform physical inventory of equipment, cash-count and all needed reconciliation with
PCU records.
Based on the joint consideration of country-specific risks such as:
perceived level of corruption (in the 1999 Corruption Perception Index published by
Transparency International Georgia was ranked as no. 84 out of 99 countries);
- weak management capacity (both at the line Ministry central and local government level);
- unstabilized and, for many aspects, underdeveloped financial intermediation system, and
project-specific conditions;
flow of funds complexity; and
* necessity for the PCU staff to become acquainted with PMR preparation techniques,
including refinement of forecasting capabilities, in principle the first phase of the APC
project will be disbursed following traditional methods (direct payments and
replenishment of the SA through SOE procedures). The transition to PMR-based
disbursement will be one of the criteria leading the financial management appraisal of the
second phase of the APC.
5. Social:
Summary of Results of Social Assessment (see Annex 13)
In the 31 schools from 11 districts (one per region) studied for this study, five main issues and
some sub-issues presented themselves. They included: (a) insufficient funding of schools,
causing existence of schools that were not suited for learning because they were falling apart,
were cold and did not have proper facilities and materials; (b) unclear and ambiguous division of
roles and limited decision-making ability at the local level: (c) deterioration of the quality of
education due of the lack of funding, low and non-payment of teachers' salaries, and near
collapse of in-service training; (d) limited flow of information, horizontally and vertically; (e)
increasing inequities and decreasing access among the poor and those living in rural areas to
quality education as well as higher education.
- 33 -



Equity Discussion:
An important issue that will have to be addressed relates to equity. There is no experience in
Georgia on allocating resources according to need (positive discrimination).  Merit and
successful achievement tend to be rewarded based on the assumption that everybody has an
equal chance, and not acknowledging initial differences. Poverty is seen as the responsibility of
other Ministries. This factor was addressed during project preparation and design, and resources
have been allocated among students and schools on the basis of specific criteria.
6. Environmental assessment: Environment Category: C (Not Required)
Since the proposed Georgia Education Project is conceived as a "System Realignment and
Strengthening Program", the Adaptable Program Credit focuses on developing the capacity of
the MoE to make a more efficient use of the school building space by developing new standards
for design and maintenance, a school mapping exercise and the preparation of a school
consolidation plan. No school repairs on construction of school buildings are envisioned. Some
minor civil works to repair the MoE and provide adequate office space to staff involved in
implementing the project is envisioned.
7. Participatory Approach: (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable)
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The preparation of the project had a participatory approach all along. The opportunity to do
sector work prior to preparing an investment operation gave time to develop trust and a
constructive dialogue between WB staff and MoE officials. During preparation of the project,
each consultant was paired up with a designated counterpart, in order to enhance collaboration
and develop opportunities for capacity building an ownership. Efforts to promote donor
coordination and partnership have also been undertaken from the start: meetings with potential
donors have been scheduled regularly to informn about activities and a special partnership has
been developed with the Georgia Open Society Foundation.
Students: Consulted during Social Assessment, study on teaching practices, study on higher
education and vocational education; consulted on textbook quality and availability;
Teachers and Principals: Consulted in Social Assessment, study on teaching practices, study on
higher education and vocational education; consulted on issues regarding textbook quality and
availability, participation in workshops; involved as well on information sharing activities in
different workshops and distribution of documents and background papers translated into
Georgian;
Parents: Consulted during Social Assessment, interviewed during site visits and study on
teaching practices; consulted on textbook quality and availability;
Local education officials: Consulted for different studies, on costs and education finance and on
teaching practices;
- 34 -



MoE officials and key related agenicies like Teacher Retraining Institute: A collaborative
approach to decision making was put in practice, where ideas and documents are shared and
discussed between WB and MoE all along;
University officials, university and VET teachers: Consulted for Higher Education and VET
Reports and draft reports discussed in January 2000;
Other donors: have been informed of project activities on a regular basis; consulted on ideas;
invited to attend workshops, and a specific effort is underway to collaborate and coordinate
financial and technical assistance between Georgia Open Society Foundation and WB as much
as possible.
Students                  CON                IS, CON
Teachers and Principals   CON, COL, IS       CON, COL, IS
Parents                   CON                IS, CON
Local Education Officials  CON               CON, COL, IS
MoE Officials and Key     COL, IS            IS, CON, COL
Related Agencies
University Officials      CON                IS
university teachers
VET officials and teachers
Other Donors              CON, COL, IS       IS, CON, COL
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration.
b. Other key stakeholders: None.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Several factors can affect the sustainability of the project: (a) availability of counterpart
funds for the investment phase and governmnent budgetary support in subsequent phases to
sustain the investment; (b) sustained delays in payment of teacher salaries that can affect
teachers' motivation and commitment to reform; (c) inappropriate incentives to attract and
retain highly qualified teachers; (d) local capacity to manage and implement project
activities; (e) social and community support for reforms; (f) political instability that may
result in changes in leadership.
Project design and preparation activities try to minimize the impact of those factors. For
example, a study was carried out to understand the factors behind delays in teachers'
payments; technical assistance and training opportunities will be provided to develop local
capacity; public awareness and information campaign regarding education reform will be
supported.
- 35 -



2. Critical Risks: (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
MoE effectively adopts policy                  M        Early discussion during project preparation of
recommendations                                         proposed policies and achievement of
understanding between project stakeholders
Agreed policies are implemented in a            S       Well advanced project preparation and regular
satisfactory way                                        supervision and close follow up during project
implementation
Continuity in government policies and priorities  S     Letter of development policy developed and
agreed upon; ongoing dialogue with both
executive and legislative branches of the
Government sustained
Education budget is properly executed           H       SAC conditionalities, conditionalities for APC
subsequent tranche release
MoE, MoF support proposed budget allocation     S       Early involvement of MoF in the process of
formulas                                                defining and testing new budget allocation
formulas
From Components to Outputs
Adequate institutional capacity of the MoE to   H       Restructuring of MoE to effectively perform
ensure quality implementation of the reform             functions and strengthening capacity through
strategy, including close coordination between          adequate technical assistance; appropriate staff
different MoE departments and implementing              of the MoE participates in training and study
agencies                                                tours to enhance management and decision
making skills
Counterpart funding will be available for all of  S     Requirement of deposit of counterpart funding
the outlined activities                                 into defined account
Direct stakeholders and society at large support  S     Properly structured communication campaigns
activities implemented within the reform                to increase participation in and support for
framework                                               education reforms
Personnel receiving technical assistance and    S       Proper regulatory and organizational framework
training are encouraged to apply newly acquired         in place to provide for performance based
skills in the organization                              incentives system
Results of pilot interventions are used to design  M    Pilot interventions are planned carefully, results
and implement national interventions                    are analyzed and discussed with wider audience
._____________ before their further replication
Teacher and education professionals remain      S       Funds for teachers' salaries are earmarked in the
motivated to support education reform (e.g.             budget, actual disbursement of these funds is
receive their salary on time)                           closely scrutinized by the Bank
New textbooks are responsive to curriculum and  S        Close coordination between the respective
new teaching practices                                  components of the project, technical assistance
to authors and publishers
Overall Risk Rating                             H       Close and regular supervision of project
implementation, ongoing dialogue with main
counterparts as well as other stakeholders
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 36 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
a) Counterpart funding, in amount equivalent to US$100,000 equivalent, will be deposited in
the Project Account of the PCU.
b) Independent auditors acceptable to IDA are contracted for the 1999/2000 FYs (PPF and
PHRD) in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
c) The National Assessment and Examination Center is legally established by the MOE as a
public legal entity on the basis of a charter and organizational structure agreed with IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Disbursements:
1. No disbursements will be allowed from the "Operating Expenses of the National Assessment
and Examination Center" Category of Expenditure until such time that an Agreement, acceptable
to IDA, has been signed and entered into effect between the MOE and the National Assessment
and Examination Center.
2. No disbursements will be allowed from the "School Grants" Category of Expenditure until
such time that an Operations Manual including procedures and criteria for awarding school
grants and a standard contract, acceptable to IDA, is adopted by the Ministry of Education.
Proposed Legal Covenants:
With regard to the management aspects of the project or executing funds,
1. A Project Management Committee will be established and maintained, by Decree of the
Minister of Education, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with IDA.
2. A Project Coordination Unit subordinated to the MoE will be maintained with terms of
reference, key staffing, organizational structure, facilities, budget and other resources agreed
with IDA.
3. The approved Ministry of Education budget shall be submitted each year to IDA.
4. The Ministry of Education shall adopt an Annual Work Program, including the annual budget
by category for counterpart funds and credit proceeds, for the Project satisfactory to IDA, prior
to the end of each calendar year.
5. The Ministry of Education shall establish and maintain Resource Centers in each district by
no later than September 30, 2001.
- 37 -



6. The Ministry of Education shall carry out the Project in accordance with a Project
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Association, including key instruments for project
execution: (a) procurement and financial management procedures; (b) the School Grant Manual;
and (c) the Annual Work Plan.
7. The Ministry of Education shall award school learning improvement grants in accordance
with a School Grant Manual, including the criteria for awarding the grants, the eligibility of the
schools that may participate and model contracts, satisfactory to IDA.
With regard to counterpart funding,
8. The Project Account will be replenished on a quarterly basis so that its balance is maintained
with sufficient counterpart funds, in accordance with the quarterly Project Management Reports.
With regard to flow and use of project funds,
9. The MOE and NAEC shall maintain an agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association providing for the transfer and reporting on the use of Credit proceeds, the
transfer of assets to the NAEC, provision of services by the PCU to the NAEC, and the
obligations of the NAEC to assist to carry out the project.
With regard to monitoring, reviewing and reporting,
10. The MoE, through the PCU, shall establish and maintain a project monitoring system that
will allow for the timely reporting of project outputs and progress towards meeting development
objectives in accordance with the list of indicators agreed with IDA.
11. Project Progress Reports, according to an agreed structure, will be prepared on a quarterly
basis and submitted to IDA within 4 weeks of the previous quarter.
12. The Ministry of Education will lead a comprehensive review of Project implementation,
according to Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA, eighteen months following Credit
effectiveness (about October 30, 2002) to assess outcomes and agree with the Association by
December 1, 2002 on any necessary changes required in project implementation in order to meet
expected development objectives.
13. The Ministry of Education will lead a mid-term review of Project implementation, according
to Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA, about two and one-half years following Credit
effectiveness (about October 30, 2003) to assess outcomes and agree with IDA by December 1,
2003 on any changes required in project implementation to meet expected development
Objectives.
With regard to sectoral policy actions,
14. Statement of goals for general education, time allocation and list of school subjects by grade
presented to IDA by August 31, 2001.
- 38 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
I3 1. b) Not applicable.
II 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
)3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
I)3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Yael D. Duthilleul              James A. Socknat               Nicolas Mathieu
Team Leader                    Sector Manager            Acting Country Manager
- 39 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:       Scor/ country reports:        (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
Address poverty issues by   Sstained growth rates.      PoetMonitoring Reports    Regional and national
preventing a deterioration of   Poverty reduction.      CAS                         economic and political
the stock of human capital    Increased expenditures in                             stability.
through fostering reallocation  education.
of expenditures towards social
sectors, improved targeting of
benefits and building
institutional capacity.
Program Purpose:       End-of-Program Indicators:       Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
Effectively realign the system   1. Share of consolidated  1. State budget          Economic and political
objectives and the policy and   budget for education                                stability is maintained.
management capacity to      allocated to primary and
improve the quality and     general secondary increased                             Economy continues to grow
relevance of learning      to 60%                                                   at expected levels.
outcomes and better prepare                             2. MoF and Rayon reports
students to meet the demands  2. Resources transferred to
of a market economy and     rayons reflect a more
democratic society.         efficient, equitable and
transparent use of resources.
3. Teacher attestation results
3. Professional qualification
and composition of teaching
force meets reform needs.
4. MoE and project reports
4. Utilization of school
buildings reflect more
efficient use of space.
5. Assessment and
5. Student learning outcomes examination results
in higher order cognitive
skills, as measured by exams
and assessment score, reflect
satisfactory performance
Project Development          Outcome / Impact             Project reports:          (from Objective to
Objective:                 Indicators:                                              Purpose)
APC Phase I: The            By end of phase 1:          1. Project reports.
institutional framework and    75% of teachers of primary
local capacity for an effective  and general secondary are
realignment of the system   familiar with new curriculum
objectives and a more       and assessment targets and
efficient and equitable use of  begin to reflect those changes
its resources developed.    in their teaching practices
- 40 -



Project Development           Outcome I Impact             Project reports:           (from Objective to
Objective:                  Indicators:                                              Pur_ Purpo
Society at large bas     2. MoE strategies and        Goverm-nent maintains its
positive opinion of initiatives  investments make use of  corrrmitment to the
undertaken in education      assessment and exanmination   education system.
results.
Policy makers and education
stakeholders use learning   3. Survey results.           Budget allocation for
outcomes and reliable                                    education continues to
statistics in their policy                              increase in line with targets.
analysis and strategy
developments.
The administrative structure
of the education system
perfonns its functions more
efficiently and effectively.
By mid term
75% of teachers of primary
and general secondary are
familiar with key elements of
the reform program and begin
to reflect them in their school
learning improvement
proposals by 2003
*  The largest share of
education stakeholders
express support for education
reform by 2003
*  Policy making is based
on a reliable system of
education indicators by 2003.
* Plan to make more
efficient use of human
resources developed and
approved after consultation
with key stakeholders. by
2003
APC Phase II: Ministry of
Education implements new
institutional and policy
framework to increase
efficiency, quality and equity
in primary and general
secondary education.
APC Phase Ill: Ministry of
Education expaiids and
consolidates primary and
general secondary education
| reforms nationwide.
- 41 -



Output from each            Output Indicators:            Project reports:           (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                            Ob jective)
I . Tools and supportive     1. I National curriculum for    I . I Project reports, of ficial    Agreed policies are
interventions developed and    primary and general       publications of revised      implemented in a
implemented to inform the    secondary education         curricula and attainment     satisfactory way.
realignment of the education   developed, disseminated   targets; pilot analysis.     Continuity in government
system objectives.           among different education                                policies and priorities.
stakeholders, piloted and                                Tax revenues are increased.
published for grades 1-6 by
2005.
MOE/ MoF/Parliament
1.2 Results of national 9th  1.2 Project reports.        support proposed education
graders examinations                                     budget allocation formulas
analyzed and disseminated by                             and HR reform.
September 2004.
MOE/MoF/Parliament
1.3 National assessment of    1.3 Project reports.       effectively adopts policy
4th graders in selected                                  recommendations.
subjects conducted by May
2004 and results analyzed and
disseminated by September
2004.
1.4 At least 600 schools    1.4 Project reports.
organized in networks; 4,000
teachers participated in initial
school based training, and
600 school learning grants
awarded by 2005.
1.5 Pilot textbook rental   1.5 Project reports, respective
experience evaluated and    regulatory act.
generalization plan agreed by
2004.
1.6 Second round of         1.6 Project reports.
exhibitions completed and
additional learning material
distributed to all schools by
2005.
2. Policy and management    2.1. EMIS operating          2.1 Project reports, statistical
capacity of the central level to  effectively at central level by  book produced by EMIS.
improve the equitable and    2004.
efficient use of physical,
financial and human resources  2.2 School consolidation  2.2 Project reports, respective
strengthened.               plan and methodology to      regulation issued.
assist local government
implement it completed and
approved by MOE by 2004.
- 42 -



Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:             (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                              Objective)
2.3 HR and teachers' career    2.3 Project reports, respective
strategy to imnprove efficiency legal acts.
and attract and sustain
qualified professionals
prepared and approved by
MoE/MoF and Parliament by
2004 with required
amendments to laws and
regulations completed.
2.4 Proposals to improve     2.4 Project reports, respective
efficient and equitable      legal acts.
allocation of financial
resources completed and
approved by MoE/MoF and
Parliament by 2004.
2.5 At least 50 education    2.5 Project reports.
stakeholders participate in
study tours and international
conferences and about 10
major learning events are
organized in Georgia by
2004.
3. Project management system  3.1 PCU has sufficient       3.1 Project reports.
developed and strengthened.   capacity in terms of material
and human resources to
adequately assist the MOE in
the preparation and
implementation of phase 2 of
the APC.
3.2 Project reports.
3.2 PCU fully equipped by
2001.
3.3. PCU performance
3.3 PCU staff training plan  evaluation as reflected in
developed and under          Bank supervision reports.
implementation by 200 1.
3.4 Project reports.
3.4 PCU is fully operational
and capable to provide
adequate support to project
implementation
3.5 Project reports.
3.5 Project monitoring system
operational by 2001.
3.6 Project progress reports   3.6 World Bank PSRs.
developed and subrnitted for
review on time.
- 43 -



Output from each            Output Indicators:            Project reports:            (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                            Objective)
3. 7 Education public
awareness strategy
implemented regularly by
2004.
3.8 Stakeholder project
cormunication system
operational by 2002.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each         Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:                component)                                                Outputs)
1. Realignment                    US$20.55 million       Supervision and Mid-term     Counterpart funding will be
1.1 Develop and implement                                reports integrating:         available for all outlined
national curriculum for                                   1.1 Publication of national    activities.
primary and general                                      curriculum
secondary education.                                                                  Communication campaigns
will increase participation
1.2 Design a national student                            1.2 Publications of results of  and support for education
assessment and examination                               national student assessment   reforms.
system: implement a national                             and examinations.
assessment of 4th graders in                                                          Personnel receiving
two subjects and national                                                             technical assistance and
exams for 9th graders.                                                                training are encouraged to
1.3 In-service training     apply newly acquired skills
1.3 Design and implement a                               attendance records,         in the organization.
professional development                                 participant evaluations,
program for educational                                  school leaming grants        Close coordination between
professionals to promote on-                             awarded.                     different MOE departments
going dialogue and critical                                                           and implementing agencies.
reflection about classroom
practices through school                                                              Results of pilot interventions
networks, school based                                                                are used to design and
training and school learning                                                          implement national
grants.                                                                               interventions.
Teacher and education
1.4 Pilot a textbook rental                              1.4 Textbook rental scheme    professionals remain
system in 48 schools.                                    designs and site visits to   motivated to support
participating schools.      education reform (e.g.
receive their salary on time)
Incentives are effective to
1.5 Provide additional                                   1.5 Site visits.             encourage teachers to
learning materials to schools.                                                        participate in training and
introduce new practices in
the classroom
New textbooks are
1.6 Strategy document.      responsive
- 44 -



Project Components /      Ipt:(udget for each              Project reports:         (fo    oponents to
Sub-components:                cmonenit)                                                Otuts)
2. Strengthening Capacity         U$.35 rniillionP
for Policy and iManagement
2.1 Develop policies, plans                              2.1 Policy recommendations
and pilot interventions to                              and implementation plans:
improve efficiency in the use                           (new financing formula,
of physical, human and                                   school consolidation
financial resources and                                 methodology developed,
effective organization of                                design pilot for multigrade
MOE.                                                    plan for improved student
teacher ratios); pilot results.
2.2 Design of effective and                             2.2 EMIS report, pilot school
reliable EMIS and                                       survey.
implementation at central
level.
2.3 Provide training and                                2.3 Policy recommendation
international learning                                  reports and implementation
opportunities to strengthen                             plans.
capacity.
3. Project Management             US$5.50 rnillion
3.1 Establish and equip                                 3.1 PCU equipment lists,
Project Coordination Unit                               rrinisterial order establishing
the PCl.
3.2 Design and implement                                3.2 TA and training records,
technical assistance and                                participant evaluations.
training to strengthen project
management, financial
management and
procurement.
3.3 Design and operationalize                           3.3 Project monitoring system
project monitoring and                                  reports.
reporting system.
3.4 Design and implement                                3.4 Project newsletters,
project communication system                            educational forums, briefing
and public awareness to                                 sessions.
promote project objectives to
stakeholders.
- 45 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
By Component:
Project Component I - US$20.55 million
Component A: Realignment of the Primary and General Secondary System Objectives
The objective of this component is to realign the objectives of primary and general secondary
education to deliver quality and relevant education to its students and improve learning for all.
This would be accomplished by the following sub-components: (a) development and
implementation of a national curriculum for primary and general secondary education; (b)
development of a national assessment and examinations system and effective dissemination of
results; (c) professional development of primary and general secondary education teachers,
principals and methodologists to help students attain the new learning targets and introduction of
school learning improvement grants; (d) increasing access to learning materials and textbooks in
schools.
Sub-component Al: Development and implementation of national curriculum for primary
and general secondary education. This sub-component will finance the development of a
national curriculum for primary and general secondary subjects and its corresponding attainment
targets, strengthen local capacity in curriculum development and implementation and establish
the appropriate institutional framework for curriculum development by creating a Curriculum
Unit/Department within the MoE.  Five strategic principles guide the curriculum  work:
professionalism-a small team of best possible national experts assisted by foreign expertise,
know-how gained through study visits and twining with international partners; piloting-testing of
draft curricula in pilot schools willing to experiment with new ideas; consultation-before and
during piloting, participatory consultation with education stakeholders; supportive
implementation and community sensitisation-cascade bases training for teachers and informing
community members and parents about the new curriculum; and collaboration/coordination with
other sub-components. During phases 2 and 3 a process of monitoring and impact evaluation of
curriculum practices will be introduced to assess their effectiveness in the classroom and
revisions will be prepared accordingly. The sub-component will finance during phase 1: (i)
technical assistance for the development of curriculum and training of local staff; (ii) publication
and dissemination of national curriculum for all schools, teachers and parents and the community
at large; (iii) stakeholder consultations during the process of development and pilot
implementation; (iv) participation in study visits, conferences and workshops abroad; (v) basic
office equipment and furniture. During phases 2 and 3, implementation of the new national
curriculum will be completed for all grades. Changes will be incorporated on the basis of
zollected feedback and impact evaluation results. The program will finance the publication and
dissemination of revised curriculum during phase 2 and 3, as revisions are expected every five
years.
!mplementation Arrangements: The Deputy Minister responsible for basic and general secondary
education will be supported by a working unit consisting of 3 to 4 long-term consultants.
- 46 -



Sub-component A2: Development of a National Assessment and Examination System.
This sub-component will finance the establishment of a national assessment and examination
system that will perfornn systematic assessment of grade 4 and grade 6 students in selected
subjects, and national examinations for students in grade 9 and for final grade of secondary
education. It will also strengthen local capacity in developing and implementing assessment and
exams and create the insti-tutional framework for sustainable assessment of student performance
by creating an Assessment Center reporting to the MoE, but an independent legal entity. During
phase 1, syllabus for national examinations for grade 9 in Mathematics, Georgian Language and
Literature and Modem Foreign Languages (English, French, German and Russian) will be
developed; grade 9 examination tests piloted, national examination for grade 9 in the three above
mentioned subjects implemented and national assessment for grade 4 students in Mathematics
and Mother Tongue comp:leted. Phase 2 will add assessment of grade 6 students in two subjects
while phase 3 will focus on developing a school leaving exam for basic subjects, production of
classroom assessment tests and materials to monitor children's progress in primary grades, and
participation in international comparison studies. In order to make the examination model
financially sustainable, central level responsibility for developing national exams might be
limited to a limited set of core subjects. This sub-component will finance (i) technical assistance
for the development of local assessment and examination tests and training of local staff; (ii)
minor civil works for the Assessment Center; (iii) office equipment and furniture; (iv) study
tours and participation in conferences and workshops abroad; (v) publication of syllabus,
assessment and examinations tests, classroom tests; (vi) publication of assessment results; (vii)
conferences and workshops with teachers and stakeholders; (viii) operating costs of the National
Assessment and Examination Center (NAEC), which includes the pilot and implementation of
the assessments and exams.
Implementation Arrangements: The Director of the Assessment Center will be responsible for
implementing this componient and will be supported by a small group of professional staff.
Sub-component A3: Professional Development of Educational Professionals (teachers,
principals, methodologists, teacher trainers). The objective of this subcomponent is to
enhance the quality of the teaching and learning process. It will do so through 4 main areas of
work: (i) professional development of teachers-this includes (a) raising teachers', principals',
methodologists', students' and parents' awareness of the need to change classroom practices; (b)
organizing school networks: clusters of schools where the education community can engage in a
professional dialogue ancd reflection about classroom practice and student learning, exchange
experiences, share resources, prepare and disseminate education innovations and (c) provide
school-based training for core subjects through the network structure, focused on classroom
practices and on an on-going basis, and (d) creation of a school grant program to be awarded on
a competitive basis to finance school innovations geared at improving student leaming; (ii)
develop a quality assurance support system for teaching practice-this include specific training for
principals and methodologists and development of a an effective supervision/inspectorate
system; and (iii) developmnent of professional standards for teachers-establishing clear links with
teacher attestation practice and accreditation procedures for teachers pre-service training
programs. During phase 1, the program will mostly focus on activities under the first area,
launching a series of Awareness Raising Workshops, that will reach all 3,400 schools in the
country, beginning to organize the school networks and initiate the school learning improvement
grants programn. School Networks will be started in 34 districts during year 1 and expand
nationwide in subsequent years. Resource Centers (RC's) will be established within a school in
each district, equipped with basic resources to support teacher's development of classroom aids
- 47 -



and self-made materials and to provide professional assistance to the networks. School networks
will start operating with 2-3 schools per district during school year 2001-2002. Three more
schools will be added to each network the following year while new clusters are created in other
districts. By year three of network creation, 6 more schools will be added per network, but this
time, disadvantaged schools will be specially invited to participate. Resource centers will assist
and provide a meeting place for schools within the network. The idea is that the first round of 6
schools will become centers of future networks after two years of training and participation in
the program, and disadvantaged schools will benefit from being mixed with stronger schools.
Once schools are part of a network, they will participate in a 40 hour training program. Each
school will identify 5 staff members to attend the training. The training will focus on new
methodologies for teaching and learning, development of school improvement plans, promotion
of democratic practices in the classroom and school. This core group will return to the school
and share with colleagues their experience and provided leamning materials. The school will then
engage in a process of assessment and development of school plans that will be reflected in a
proposal for a school grant. Twenty hours of consultations from a facilitator will be available
during the year to assist schools in preparing their improvement plans and school grant
application. Resource Centers will be key to assisting schools in preparing required materials to
improve their teaching and learning. They will be headed by a teachers. Annual district and
national meeting will take place to share experiences and promote innovations. It is expected to
reach between 600-800 schools during phase 1. Remaining schools will join in subsequent
phases. Subject specific training and the three other areas will be implemented in subsequent
phases. Careful monitoring and evaluation will be part of the program activities to provide
feedback to improve the model and training. School innovations will be promoted through
school grants of up to US$ 1,000 per grant. The grants would finance a limited list of inputs such
as local technical assistance, training, additional learning materials etc., geared towards
improving student learning. Grant funds cannot be used for payment of teacher salaries and/or
school repairs. The grants would be awarded in accordance with agreed criteria. The grant
program will be refined and extended during Phases 2 (and 3) on the basis of results. The
program will finance (i) technical assistance for the development of training programs, training
materials, delivery of training, design of professional standards for teachers and accreditation for
pre-service programs; (ii) publication of learning materials for trainers, principals,
methodologists, teachers and education community; (iii) minor civil works, equipment and
furniture for 68 district resource centers and central office; (iv) conferences, workshops and
training events at local and national level; (v) study visits and participation in international
training events; (vi) data collection for monitoring and impact evaluation; (vii) school grants for
learning improvement innovations; and (viii) simple duplication machines for each school in the
country. A policy unit within the MoE responsible for teachers professional development will be
created.
Implementation Arrangements: The Head of the Department for Preschool Education, Schools,
and Children's Rights will be responsible for implementing this component and will be supported
by a working unit consisting of 4 professional, long-term consultants.
Sub-component A4: Improving access to quality learning materials. This sub-component
will (i) facilitate the publication of improved new textbooks and teacher guides and books
through MoE textbook competitions; (ii) pilot a sustainable system for financing the supply of
textbooks in schools during phase I and on the basis of findings define possible extension
nationwide; and (iii) provide schools with a range of supplementary teaching and learning
materials. During phase 1, the program will assist the MoE Textbook Department develop its
- 48 -



capacity to take the role of a Secretariat to the textbook competition, develops its textbook policy
and revise competition and rules accordingly, train publishers, authors and evaluators to the new
rules A sustainable systerm of textbook supply in the form of a rental system will be piloted in
about 50 schools representing different school conditions in Georgia. On the basis of these
results, the system will be refined and adjusted to expand nationwide if suitable during phase 2.
Schools and classroom will enrich their learning environments by gaining access to a wide range
of learning materials such as visual aids like maps, charts, diagrams, pictures, albums, plaster
casts, relief models, problem solving games, puzzles, audio and video-cassettes, films, CD-
Roms; supplementary literature for school principals and teachers; classroom libraries for
primary grades with books for encouraging early reading, reading for pleasure and fun, topic
books; dictionaries and encyclopedias. School will have a chance to choose within a set
allocated budget from a wide range of options that will be presented to them through district
level exhibitions. Two rounds of exhibitions are prepared during phase 1. The first one will
offer materials that are easily available in Georgia today while the second round will give more
time to potential suppliers to develop more suitable materials. Budgets allocated to schools will
vary according to number of students enrolled and groups, ranging from about US$300 to $700
in the first round and higher in the second. This component will finance (i) technical assistance
to develop, implement and monitor the financially sustainable system of textbook provision, train
MoE staff, publishers, authors and evaluators and develop an effective textbook policy
framework; (ii) learning materials for schools and set of durable textbooks for pilot schools; (iii)
workshops and training events; (iv) participation on study tours and conferences; (v) rounds of
district level exhibitions; (vi) studies to assess and monitor the effectiveness of the pilot system.
Implementation Arrangements The Head of the Textbook Department will be responsible for
implementing this subcomponent and will be supported by 2 full-time, professional, long-term
consultants and 4 part-time promotional/monitoring consultants.
Project Component 2 - US$5.35 million
Component B: Strengthening Capacity for Policy and Management
This component aims to strengthen the management capacity at central and local level to make a
more effective, efficient and equitable use of human, financial, and physical resources, pilot
interventions to improve s,ystem effectiveness and efficiency, and develop the required tools for
informed decision-making, improve transparency and accountability. The activities supported
include: (a) development and implementation of policies to improve efficiency and transparency
in the use of financial, human, and physical resources and quality learning for all by developing
tools like new financing formnula and funding mechanisms, new staff management policy, school
mapping and consolidation plans, and new standards for school buildings and maintenance; (b)
pilot interventions to restructure the sector to make it more effective and efficient, including
piloting at central level and in selected districts initiatives offering separation packages to target
groups of teachers and administrators on a volunteer basis; and (c) development and
implementation of an effective and reliable EMIS.
Sub-component Bi: Development of Policy Capacity. This sub-component will seek to
develop capacity for policy analysis and reform implementation. During phase 1, focus will
mainly be at the central level, where activities will be oriented towards designing policies and
plans to improve effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency in the allocation of physical,
financial and human resources. Four specific outputs will be expected at the end of phase I: (a) a
- 49 -



new financial formula to allocate resources in the sector in a more efficient, equitable and
transparent way; (b) developing a methodology to assist local governments in making more
efficient use of school facilities-including the development of new standards for new school
buildings and maintenance-and helping local governmnents prepare and implement consolidation
plans; (c) a reorganization of the MoE and related agencies to effectively perform its functions
within the new decentralized framework; (d) an analysis of human resources in the sector and
design of a plan to restructure it and make more efficient use of them, offer appropriate
incentives to attract and sustain well qualified teachers. These four outputs approved and ready
to be implemented, will be considered triggers to move into phase 2.
Under (c) and (d) technical assistance will be provided to develop an appropriate functional plan
and strategy for implementation of the restructuring initiative, paying specific attention to
defining the right separation package for each case (different for central level administrators and
for teachers); identifying potential sources of financing and ensuring necessary resources exist
before launching implementation; clearly defining criteria and mechanisms for selecting those
that can benefit from the package, minimizing the risk of young, high performing staff leaving
and low performers remaining; ensuring that the appropriate legal framework is in place;
ensuring that schools can effectively function without those teachers and administrators;
ensuring that savings from downsizing, net of severance payments, stay in the sector to be
reinvested in productivity enhancing activities, and developing local capacity to implement,
monitor and evaluate. Clear procedures for identification and selection of staff that can benefit
from the separation package will have to be designed.
During phases 2 and 3, the proposed reforms will be gradually implemented and the capacity at
the local level to manage and monitor developed as needed. Policy development will focus
during phase 2 on equity and during phase 3 on external efficiency issues.
This component will finance: (a) technical assistance and training in education policy analysis
and management, school mapping, new standards for school building design and maintenance,
teacher career incentives, education finance, organizational development, and human resources
restructuring strategies; (b) equipment and furniture; (c) study tours and training; (d) conferences
and workshops; (e) background studies; (f) publication and dissemination of results and
proposals.
Implementation Arrangements: The First Deputy Minister will be responsible for implementing
this subcomponent. He will be supported by a Policy and Strategy Department that will be
officially created in the MoE and will consist of three MoE staff assisted by 3 long term
consultants.
Sub-component B2: Development of an Education Management Information System
(EMIS). Having access to a systematic and reliable information system is an essential tool for
policy development, evaluation and management.  This sub-component will finance the
development of such system to provide policy makers with information on state and trends of
education system, for conducting simulations and forecasts. During the first phase, it will assist
the MoE define its priorities in terms of the structure of the data needed and the required
hardware and software that will be necessary to support the data management activities, develop
a strategy for an output oriented collection and processing of data, ensure the appropriate
equipment is installed and training provided to its users. A pilot system for data collection and
management will be implemented dunrng phase 1 in 4 regions of Georgia and introducing
- 50 -



computers in 55 pilot sclhools. During phase 2 the remaining 7 regions will be added.
Expansions of computerization in schools will be based on results from pilot and related to size
of schools (over 500 students given priority) and access to electricity. The data will flow from
the school to the regional level and from there to the center. Districts will be recipients of
information but will not be processing data.
Main activities to be financed under this sub-component are (a) technical assistance for the
design and implementation. of an EMIS; (b) provision of required hardware and software; (c)
participation of key policy makers and MoE staff in international study tours, intemships and
short term studies abroad as well as organization of learning events in Georgia; (d) training,
conferences and workshops; (e) evaluation of data utilization practice by users; (f) publications;
and (g) minor civil works and furniture for the local level offices and schools participating the
pilot automated EMIS system.
Implementation Arrangements: The First Deputy Minister is responsible for implementing this
component and will be supported by a working unit consisting of four long term professional
consultants.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.50 million
Component C: Project Management Support
The general objective of this component to provide the necessary support, through the provision
of project management services and through the implementation of a public
information/education strategy, to ensure that the basic environment necessary for successful
project implementation is provided.
Sub-component Cl: Development and Maintenance of a Project Coordination Unit. The
objective of this subcomponent is to support project implementation by ensuring: (i) project
activities are well coordinated; (ii) issues affecting  or potentially  affecting project
implementation are identified and addressed in a timely manner; (iii) technical advice is provided
to project components in how to develop workplans, write terms of reference, effectively manage
consultant services; (iv) necessary project inputs are provided in a timely and cost-efficient
manner; (v) project resources are appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements
for procurement and financial management; (vi) effective project monitoring and progress
reporting is carried out; and (vii) there is systematic out-reach to various stakeholders to promote
project objectives.
To achieve this objective the component will finance: (i) technical assistance and training in
project management, procurement, financial management and disbursement, and key software
programs such as Microsoft Project and the financial accounting package; (ii) salaries of the
professional-level consultant staff that will comprise the Project Coordination Unit; (iii)
necessary office equipment and furniture; (iv) vehicles for site visits; (v) other outreach activities
such as conferences, community meetings and supporting material; (vi) completion of the
Ministry of Education rehabilitation which will house, among others, the departments and
consultants responsible for Project implementation; and (vii) incremental operating expenses of
the PCU including the salaries of office support staff, communication costs, banking fees,
transportation costs, meeting expenses, office supplies and minor equipment, equipment
maintenance, advertisement fees, office security arrangements, and audit fees.
- 51 -



In part, the support provided to build project management capacity will be focused on the PCU
and its staff that will be established within the Ministry of Education. However, it will also be
necessary to provide technical assistance and training to other key staff in the Ministry such as in
project, budget and human resources management.
Implementation Arrangements: The Director of the PCU will be responsible for ensuring that
the activities of this subcomponent are carried out. He will be supported by the a Component
Coordinator for each Component (2); Lawyer; Financial Management Officer; Financial
Assistant; Disbursement Officer, Procurement Officers (2); Procurement Assistant; and Office
Manager/Administrative Assistant. Various office support staff, such as drivers and cleaners,
will be contracted by the PCU and will be reflected in the annual operating budget of the PCU.
Any additional expertise needed for project management, such as establishing a computer
network, development technical specifications, will be contracted on a short-term as needed
basis.
Sub-component C2: Implementation of a Public Information / Education Strategy. The
Government recognizes that disseminating information, monitoring public opinion and
promoting successes are keys to implementing reforms successfully. The education reform
program could face significant opposition that would slow and possible derail its
implementation. Therefore, the Public Information/Education Campaign would provide essential
support to the restructuring program by: (i) informing the general public, the teaching
community, and parents about the goals and progress of the reforms; and (ii) using this
information and targeted messages to highlight the benefits and build support among key
beneficiary groups. Specifically, this component would implement a campaign strategy over the
life of the project by strengthening the external relations and communications capabilities of the
Ministry of Education; running programs and advertisements on TV, the radio, and in
newspapers; and hosting public events and seminars. The impact of the campaign would be
monitored through the use of benchmark and tracking polls as well as focus groups. Specific
phasing will be established to update the campaign as necessary.
This component would finance (i) foreign and local technical assistance; (ii) workshops and
seminars; (iii) development, production and distribution of campaign materials (posters, banners,
etc.), information handouts and booklets; (iv) production and broadcasting of TV and radio
programs and advertisements; and (v) surveys, focus groups, and polls.
Implementation Arrangements: The Deputy Minister in charge of International and Public
Relations will be responsible for this subcomponent. She will be supported by Project Public
Relations Officer(s) which will enhance the capacity of the Press Center in the MoE.
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
I .I Development and Imiplementation of Standards and    1,270.7     1,032.8     2,303.5
Cutrricula Prograrns
1.2 Establishment of a Nsatioiial Assessment and         2,038.0      752.2      2,790.1
Examnination Center
1 .3 Professional Development of Educational Professionals   5,052.1  1,542.7    6,594.8
1.4 Improving access to Quality Learning Materials       5,101.7     2,860.4     7,962.1
2.1 Development of Policy Capacity                       3,143.9       629.6     3,773.5
2.2 Development of an Education Management Information     668.7       731.4     1,400.1
System
3.1 Development and Maintenance of a Project             2,472.9       914.1     3,387.0
Coordination Unit
3.2 Imnplementation of a Public Information and Education  1,043.1     731.7     1,774.9
Campaign
Total Baseline Cost                                     20,791.1     9,194.9    29,986.0
Physical Contingencies                                    114.9       29.5        144.4
Price Contingencies                                     1,029.3      233.4      1,262.7
Total Project Costs                   21,935.2     9,457.8    31,393.1
Total Financing Required             21,935.2     9,457.8    31,393.1
Works                                                     847.00      562.90      40.0
Textbooks                                                 767.20        0.00     772
Goods, including non-textbook learning materials         4,467.0    5,384.3    9,5.
Consultant Services and Training, including Workshops,   8,928.6    3,247.7    12,7.
Conferenc es and Stuldy T'ouTs
School Improvement Graints                                840.00        0.00     840.00
Operating Costs of the Assessment Center                  1634.60       0.00    1634.60
Operating Costs of the PCU                                 744.30       0.00     744.30
Other Operating Costs                                      262.5        0.00     906.10
Unallocated Including Physical and Price Contingencies2  3443.13      262.91    3707.04
Total Project Costs               21,935.2    9,457.8   31,393.1
Total Financing Required             21,935.2    9,457.8   31,393.1
*Total Project Costs include; a PPF Advance of US$1.15 million.
1. Identifiable taxes and duties are 4.10 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 27.29 (US$m).
Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 94.9% of total project cost net of taxes.
2. Unallocated includes US$1.15 million of physical and price contingencies and US$2.3 million of total
project costs (US$ .11 million and US$2.0 million respectively of Credit proceeds) that would be allocated
during the Project's mid-term review for expansion of earlier agreed activities such as the School Improvement
Grants or the Textbook Revolving Fund. The changes to the Credit Agreement would be reflected as legal
amendments subject to review and approval by the Bank and the Government of Georgia.
- 53 -



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Economic analysis of the proposed project
Internal efficiency
1. The paradox of a highly efficient Georgian education system
Most efficiency studies carried out in developing countries tend to show that for a given
budget, especially publicly funded, the outcomes of the education system are not satisfactory.
More pupils could be enrolled for the same budget, more years of education could be
supplied to the school age population, or the same number of pupils could be educated at a
lower cost, or a better quality of education could be insured. The argument is often based on
comparative studies showing that in similar circumstances, some other nations are
performing better. And one of the purposes of any education project is the improvement of
resource allocation in the direction of world best performers. Among other instruments, one
is relying on two indicators. One can analyze first the relation between the share of the GDP
publicly spent for education and the expected number of years of education at the age of 5,
and second the unit cost per pupil as a proportion of the GDP per capita.
Based on these two indicators, the Georgian case is highly paradoxical, as far as the country
is some sort of a world efficiency champion. It enjoys one of the highest scores for the
expected number of years of education given available resources (about 10-11 years for a
GDP's share of 1.4%). This is unusual. On average, developed countries spend 5.1% for
about 14 years of education and developing countries 4.1 % of the GDP for 8.8 years. Even
China, often quoted as a good example of efficient use of education resources, does not do as
well, as far as it allocates 2.3% of the GDP to education for a similar outcome as Georgia
(10.7 years of education).
Concerning unit costs, one observes a similar pattern. For the nine years of basic and
compulsory education Georgia spends, per year and per pupil, only 4% of the GDP per
capita. It is worth reminding that the world average is 18.2%, four times the Georgian value.
According to UNESCO data (1998), transition countries, the group to which Georgia belongs
to, are close to the world value, with 19.9% of the GDP per capita. The region that has the
lowest indicator is the Latin America/Caribbean region, with 11%. The 4% observed in
Georgia are therefore clearly atypical, and this specificity has to be interpreted with caution. .
The peculiar Georgian situation could be understood from three different perspectives. First,
one could conclude that the system is indeed efficient, and there is no basis for promoting
efficiency improvements. This view is dangerous, because it ignores entirely the quality
dimension of the system, as well as its internal dynamics. Second, one could argue, as
implied in the first argument, that the extreme under-financing of the system is leading, or
has already led, to serious quality gaps. Pupils are in schools, but they learn less and less.
Even if there is some truth in this second explanation, it is nevertheless difficult to sustain it
strongly for the time being. No hard data are available on actual pupil achievement, but no
observer would dare to claim that Georgian pupils learn less than Chinese pupils, to take an
arbitrary example among supposedly efficient countries.
- 54 -



The third approach is likely closer to the truth. It sees the Georgian system as a still active
beneficiary of past investments, which have provided more than enough trained teachers,
more than enough school space, and these past investments, financed by the Forner Soviet
Union (FSU), have allowed the temporary survival of the system. In spite of the lack of
proper maintenance of school buildings, most schools are still able to operate, sometimes by
occupying part of the iacilities, the parts that are less deteriorated in the context of no
maintenance budget. But the situation is becoming worse year after year, and if buildings can
be utilized for ten years without maintenance, it becomes less likely that they will do it for an
other ten-year period.
Similarly, teachers are still teaching in spite of harsh teaching conditions and low salaries.
After an historic low salary level of 5 dollars a month in 1995, some modest increases have
taken place during the past four years, in order to reach about 20 dollars a month on average
in 1999. This is an income equivalent to one third of the GDP per capita, and the teaching
profession is one of the least paid in today's Georgia. Some other former civil servants have
similar salaries, but they are less likely required to be present on the job. They are de facto
allowed to take informal employment for generating income from secondary activities.
Teachers do it also, but they have to be in front of their pupils for 18 hours a week, and this
duty is performed at the expense of additional side activities.
Teachers are still teaching for different reasons. Some of them have reached the retirement
age, and the pension rate is even lower than teachers' salaries. It is why they tend to stay
active. Second, the job market is still unpromising for teachers. The economic recovery of the
country is slow, and the creation of new formal jobs, characterized by higher labor
productivity, remains cosmetic. Consequently, effective alternatives on the job market
remains scarce, but hopefully not forever. Third, the teaching profession used to enjoy a high
social prestige, regardless of its modest monetary compensation. But this prestige is
progressively vanishing, as long as the profession does not any longer fit with the subsistence
level in the country. A household survey has shown that the average household spends 155
dollars per month. That means that a teacher's household is far below the poverty line if it
fails to generate significant secondary income. It is difficult to predict how long the present
situation can last before teachers decide to leave massively the profession. From a simple
economic return point of view, spending a Lari for training a teacher has a negative rate of
return, if the benefits are measured by teachers' income.
Textbooks constitute the third heritage of the past. Present levels of publications are far
below the needs, and many pupils do not have textbooks, or are still using those of the past.
Here again, such a solution can not be definitive. Curriculum is changing, as well as
pedagogical practices. New textbooks are badly required, and educational budgets will have
to grow accordingly (from both public and private sources).
2. An apparent efficiencyc, cohabiting with inefficient resource allocation
One can not discard the assumption that the present high efficiency of Georgian education is
a lure. The system may collapse without notice, and the reconstruction would be painful and
costly. It would be wiser to anticipate this phenomenon by designing a policy based on two
principles: restore the financial viability of the system and use this opportunity as an
incentive for introducing necessary refonns. The reform process includes issues such as
curriculum, teaching practices, evaluation and certification procedures, but it includes also
- 55 -



efficiency measures. The paradox mentioned earlier does not concern only the existence of a
high apparent efficiency, but also the fact that this efficiency coexists with several causes of
inefficient resource allocation.
This cohabitation may be explained in a simple way, by saying that the system is
characterized by the existence of an excess supply of several key inputs (staff, buildings, and
schools), but these inputs are not priced at the value they are entitled to. If they were priced
along the lines of international patterns, the share of GDP that should be allocated to the
sector would reach a level significantly above world standards. But as they are severely
under-priced, the actual share of the GDP appears as very low. One of the objectives of the
project aims at reestablishing decent prices for education inputs, but at the same time, at
reducing the quantities of a given input when it appears unnecessarily high. One can list three
domains in which the present efficiency is doubtful, due to an excess supply of inputs,
namely pupil/teacher ratios, school map, and a sub-optimal order of priorities among levels of
education.
2.1 First source of inefficiency: an excessively high pupil/teacher ratio
In spite of a certain decline in the number of teachers since independence, the present
pupil/teacher ratio appears as quite high by international standards. In general basic education
one has 10 pupils per teacher, as opposed to 15 on average in OECD countries. In other
levels, this ratio is even lower, in particular in boarding schools, orphanages, vocational
schools and technicums, and finally in tertiary institutions. There is a clear tendency for
under-utilizing the teaching staff. Of course, this under-utilization is justified by the context
of low salaries, but if salaries are adjusted to reasonable levels, such a policy should be
accompanied by a redefinition of teachers' duties. One has two ways for dealing with this
issue. The first one is based on a macroeconomic approach, based on international
comparisons. We know that OECD countries are able to operate decent education systems
with a global pupil/teacher ratio of 15. For which reason should Georgia be an exception to
this pattern? One argument is the fact that the distribution of population in mountainous
Georgia does not allow to fill in classrooms as efficiently as in more urbanized countries. If
schools are doomed to close below a certain size, a certain number of villages may disappear,
and this is an undesirable outcome for Georgian authorities. The impact of this specific
geographical context is difficult to assess, but one can simulate several scenarios, with a high
and a low value for the indicator. For instance, in Orivel (1999), the high scenario is based on
a pupil/teacher ratio of 16 in 2010, and the low one of 13 for the same horizon. In the first
case, the impact of the efficiency measure is an increase of teachers salaries of 58%, all other
things equal, and in the second, of 29%. If salaries represent 70% of the education budget,
and if Georgia wants to have the same relative level of teacher compensation as in the rest of
the world, it could do it by allocating a significantly lower percentage of the GDP to
education. The savings made with the high scenario would be of the order of 1.3% of the
GDP, and in the low one of 0.65%. That is very significant.
In order to be more accurate on potential staff savings, the exercise should take into account
two additional factors, a rural/urban differentiation, as far as one can not apply the same
pupil/teacher ratios in both contexts, and the breakdown of staff with respect to full time/ part
time employment. Data for carrying out these variables will be collected in order to improve
the analysis of efficiency of staff mobilization.
- 56 -



The second approach is more microeconomic. It is based on an analysis of the variability of
pupil/teacher ratios within Georgian schools. There is variability due to two factors, the
number of children to enroll in a given school and the variability of the teaching staff for a
given school size. The first factor is an exogenous variable, not manipulable by school
authorities. But the second one is a random factor, and if a school has more teachers than an
other one for a similar size, there is some scope for working out savings, and consequently
improving efficiency.
2.2 Second source of inefficiency: too many schools
The second domain of inefficiency refers to the school map. Could Georgia have fewer
schools? This question is linked to the previous one, as far as larger schools could facilitate
the optimization of class sizes. Unlike most educational systems worldwide, Georgia does not
separate, but a few exceptions, grades 1 to 11 into different types of schools. The same
institution covers all grades, and in most cases, a given grade has only one group of pupils. If
the optimum class size is said to be 22, 25, 30 or whatever, the likelihood of having this
number is reduced relatively to schools having enough pupils for setting up several groups at
the same grade. In addition, as grades 10 and 11 accommodate only half the number of grade
9 leavers, many schools have to operate, at this level, half groups. This is inefficient for two
reasons. The effect of class size on pupil achievement is more limited at higher grades than
for younger pupils. It is more common, and likely more appropriate, to have 20 pupils for
grades 1 to 4 and 30 for grades 9 to 12 than the opposite. Georgia is therefore following the
wrong pattern. The second problem raised by this type of organization is the questions of
optional courses. For upper secondary education, most educational systems tend to diversify
the menu offered to pupils, and to give them the opportunity to specialize in certain fields,
such as sciences, mathernatics, foreign languages, or computer science etc. In Georgia, such a
diversification is rare because of the demographic composition of the large majority of
schools: they have not enough pupils of a certain age for justifying a significant
diversification process. Only big cities can afford to provide such possibilities, which means
that according to the localization of pupils, their access to optional fields is unequally
distributed.
Since independence, new types of schools have been set up to tackle this issue, in particular
gymnasium and lyceum. Unfortunately, these new types of schools limited to higher grades
have not substituted to regular schools offering all grades, but have been set up as an
addition. The rationalization process has not worked, but very likely, it has deteriorated.
More generally, there are many instances in which it could be economically justified to
merge two neighboring schools, even in mountainous areas, because it would generate
economies of scale. It would not only save teaching positions, but also reduce the burden of
maintaining school buildings, simply because fewer buildings will be necessary for a given
number of pupils.
In addition, small schools, which can not be avoided in remote mountainous villages, have
not introduced a common approach in similar contexts, based on multigrade teaching.
One can find classes in which a teacher is in front of less than five pupils. This is hardly
efficient, and multigrade techniques may provide an appropriate and cost-effective answer for
dealing with small intakes. When multigrade teaching is practiced in Georgia, it is done as
one teacher in front of two grades, like 1st. and 3rd., 2nd. and 4th., etc. the idea being that the
- 57 -



teacher has to run two parallel lessons for different grades. This practice is usually perceived
as of lower quality and teachers have not been effectively trained for that purpose. This
approach to multigrade however, is not the one that current best practice experiences
recommend. In fact, in other countries like Colombia and Guatemala with successful cases
of mutigrade for primary grades, students from all six grades are together in one classroom
with a single teacher. The pedagogy behind this approach is based in students following their
own pace, supported by well developed learning materials to guide them, and learning from
each other. High value is placed on democratic practices, participation and responsibilities.
These efforts have proven effective learning and development of students self esteem.
Introduction of such practice in Georgia could be a possible alternative to improve efficiency.
In the case of Georgia, the consolidation of schools can be cost-effective when the following
condition is met: the cost of transporting pupils enrolled in the school to be closed to the
consolidated school have to be lower than the savings generated by the closing of one of the
two schools. This condition may appear strange, because it seems natural that such a
condition is met under most circumstances. But in Georgia, given the extremely low cost per
pupil, and the fact that public transports are not well developed in many locations, such a
context is occurring more than often. A significant consolidation process will be justified
when financial resources allocated to education will be closer to world standards. That means
that teachers' salaries will have to increase accordingly, creating the appropriate incentives
not only for reducing teaching staff, but also for merging schools.
The project will have to monitor this process by following the evolution of relative prices of
inputs. If the increase of teachers' salaries is a long process, the breaking point for
consolidating schools will be reached later than in the case in which teachers' salaries are
growing rapidly. The speed of the process will therefore depend on the capacity of the
government to make the education budget closer to world standards.
The project will also contemplate a new mechanism for providing appropriate incentives for
the efficient management of schools, namely a per capita funding system. Such a system is
designed, among other objectives, to encourage larger class sizes, because in a given class,
the cost of the marginal pupil is close to zero, while the income generated by each additional
pupil is equal to the average. Let us remind here that there is a tendency to have inefficient
class size in Georgia, and incentives aimed at increasing it are going in the right direction.
The policy unit to be set up will carry out the appropriate studies for introducing such a
scheme on a pilot basis, and subsequently develop it on the basis of the lessons learned from
the pilot phase.
At this stage, it is difficult to assess how extensive could be a consolidation process, how
many schools would constitute the optimal number. Here again, detailed feasibility studies
will have to be conducted by the policy unit. Plausible scenarios are nevertheless likely
comprised between 10 and 30%. That does not mean that the savings to be generated by the
closing of 10% of existing schools would have a magnitude of 10%. Most of the savings have
already been taken into account by the rationalization of staff (point I above), and the other
savings concern only the maintenance costs as well as other non-salary expenditure. If at the
end of the reform process, salaries represent 70% of total school budgets, the savings
generated by the closing of certain schools will apply to the remaining 30%. Consequently,
closing 10% of existing schools may generate about 3% of savings in the education budget
and closing 30% no more than 10% savings. These savings apply only to schools of general
- 58 -



education, supposed to consume between 50% and 60% of the whole education budget. As a
consequence, the range of savings that can be expected from the rationalization of the school
map is comprised between 1.5% and 6%. This estimate has to be seen as a "gross7' savings
estimate, as far as one has to subtract potential transportation cost generated by the
consolidation process.
2.3 Third source of inefficiency, a sub-optimal order of priorities among levels of education
and types of educational institutions
Basic general education captures today about 48% of consolidated public education
expenditure. This is a comparatively low percentage. In OECD countries, for instance, 70%
of public education expenditures are allocated to grades 1 to 12. But the comparability of the
value of this indicator between Georgia and OECD is not fully satisfying, as far as boarding
schools and orphanages, which provide also some basic general education, are not included in
the 48% estimated for Georgia. As a matter of fact, it is more common to combine the budget
of orphanages with the "social budget" of a nation rather than with the education budget. But
on the other hand, boarding schools should be integrated with the budget of general basic
education. Both categories represent 11.1% of total public education expenditure in Georgia,
which is enormous (for instance, kindergartens receive 7.7% of the whole budget). This big
share is not due to a very large number of pupils enrolled in these institutions. Quite the
opposite, the actual number of children enrolled in these institutions seems rather a modest
number. The main reason for this comparatively large share of the budget allocated to
orphanages and boarding schools is related to a specific input, namely the cost of feeding
pupils. While the costs of other inputs have been, as shown earlier, severely restrained, food
costs are determined by market forces, and schools have to pay the real costs.
Taking these different specific features into consideration, one could assume that if half the
11.1% of the budget allocated to orphanages and boarding schools are directed towards
boarding schools (assuming they serve basic general education), the fair comparison with
OECD countries is not 48%, but 48% plus half the budget of boarding schools/orphanages,
namely 48+5.5 = 53.5%/c. In addition, if the amount of resources allocated to education by the
government is becoming closer to world standards, the share of boarding schools and
orphanages will automatically decline, because the price structure of inputs will progressively
be determined by market forces, and the weight of food will shrink. As a consequence, the
share of general education will fall below 53.5%. So there is a big gap between Georgia and
the rest of the world in this respect, from less than 53.5% to about 70%. This gap could be
reduced, and basic education (grades 1 to 1 1), could be allocated a higher share of the budget.
But at the expense of what?
Administration costs represent 3.8%. It is rather low, and the benefits for general education
would be cosmetic while the sacrifices for administration would be painful. Technicums
capture a modest 1.5%. This modest share maybe inefficiently utilized, but on the other
hand, the sector needs a reforn, and such a reform will not be carried out without any budget.
So very little transfer can be expected from this sector. If one wants to allocate an additional
10% to the budget to general education, the most obvious loser should be the sector called
out-of-school institution,s, which consumes 6.7% of the budget, and which could be almost
entirely privatized. The missing 3.3% could come from both universities (20.6% of the
budget), and kindergarten (7.7%). A proportional sacrifice would take about 0.9% to
kindergarten and 2.4% to universities, whose share would be reduced respectively to about
- 59 -



7% and 18%, not very far from world standards. If one hesitates to tap the budget allocated to
kindergarten because they belong to the first category in termns of priorities, then one could
reduce the share of tertiary education from 20.6% to 17.6%, and maintain the share of
kindergarten as it is (7.7%). Such shares are consistent with world patterns.
The efficiency impact of this third domain on efficiency intervention is not to be discarded. It
will more or less give an additional 10% of the educational budget to general education, and
increase its present level of resources by 20%. All other things equal, such a measure is
equivalent, in the long run, to the savings of half a percent of the GDP for the Treasury.
Possible alternatives will be further examined during the upcoming Public Expenditure
Exercise lead by the World Bank.
2.4 Summary of efficiency measures
The three domains to which the project will bring appropriate incentives for a more efficient
allocation of resources, teaching staff rationalization, school map and focus on schools of
general education, have a common feature, which is the reduction of the quantity of
education inputs. This reduction is compensated by an effort for paying the right prices for
the remaining inputs. It is globally a trade off between quantity and fair pricing of inputs. If
one takes as a norm of fair pricing some kind of world standard, then one could assume that
in the long run, Georgia would allocate 5% of its GDP to education (from public sources).
The range of savings that has been estimated above are based on this assumption. It appears
that with such a reference, teaching staff rationalization may save between 0.65% and 1.3%
of the GDP, the school map rationalization between 0.075% and 0.3%, and the emphasis on
schools of general education about 0.5%. All other things equal, if Georgia converges
towards world standard in termns of prices for school inputs without changing the quantities, it
would have to allocate, instead of a standard 5%, something between 6.225% and 7.1%. By
adjusting properly the quantities, it would spend 5%. The impact of the three efficiency
measures can be estimated within a range of 1.225% to 2.1% of the GDP, or a level of
savings comprised between 24.5% and 42% of standard public education expenditure.
Finally, it seems interesting to compare the respective impact of each efficiency measure on
the global savings (see table 1 below). In both the low and the high scenarios, it is the
rationalization of the teaching staff that brings the largest savings, respectively 53.1% and
61.9%. The consolidation of schools through the rationalization of the school map generates
the lowest share of the whole savings, namely between 6.1% and 14.3% according to the
scenario. The emphasis on schools of general education has an intermediate impact, between
23.8% and 40.8% of the whole savings.
Table 1 Potential savings due to efficienc, 7 interventions
Low scenario      High scenario
% of GDP-(%)      % of GDP - (%)
Teaching staff rationalization          0.65 - (53.1)       1.30 - (61.9)
School map rationalization              0.075 - (6.1)       0.30 - (14-3)
Emphasis on school of general education  0.50 - (40.8)      0.50 - (23.8)
Total                                   1.225 - (100)       2.10 - (100)
- 60 -



External efficiency
The reform process developed by the project will introduce deep changes in the way pupils
are prepared to enter the job market. During the FSU, the objectives of the curriculum, at all
levels of the education pyramid, were determined by the Gosplan, in order to allocate school
leavers to different working positions forecast in the planning process. In each economic
sector or branch, required qualifications were estimated every year, taking into account the
needs for replacing workers who would retire, and for filling new positions when the sector
was expanding. Every graduate had its working position assigned before starting to be
trained in a given trade. Everyone was sure to have a job in his/her specialty.
The end of the central planning process has made the training system almost entirely
obsolete. A new job structure will progressively emerge, but there are no tools for
anticipating precisely what kind of qualifications will be required, and how many people will
be recruited in a given branch. The slow transition process is partly due to the fact that most
Georgian workers have never been exposed to the concept of job mobility, and they feel lost
in the context of a market economy, in which the structure of jobs is changing rapidly. One of
the main objectives of the project is to help school leavers to be in a better position for
adapting themselves to a moving context. It is why some curriculum changes are
contemplated, as well as new pedagogical practices. The philosophy which supports these
changes is very clear: thie rigid FSU approach, in which pupils are required to learn by rote
their lessons, will be replaced by a more active participation of pupils in the class-room.
Trans-curricula contents will be developed. Problem solving capacity, almost entirely ignored
in the past, will become the core of the curriculum. The development of self-esteem, critical
thinking, project oriented activities, are intended to help future active people to be more
autonomous, able to react positively to contextual changes, to be innovative, and hopefully
more productive.
Of course, it is not possible to assess quantitatively the economic returns of these changes,
because the present income structure does not reflect yet the impact of education on labor
productivity, but we know that education has to change for generating higher labor
productivity, One can informally observe that the few Georgians who have been exposed to
some sort of western exposure, in particular those who have received some training in the
West, are rapidly able to earn income significantly above the average.
Financial sustainability of the project
The project does not intend to increase education supply. It aims at introducing a reform
spirit within existing institutions, to improve the effectiveness of the system as a whole, and
to facilitate its financial rehabilitation. But it does not create a significant new burden on the
budget by the creation of new institutions. One has to mention, nevertheless, the creation of a
very limited number of presently missing units, in particular an evaluation unit and a policy
unit. For the ten coming years, the APC will support most of the additional expenditure
generated by the operation of these two units. After ten years, the impact of these units on the
Georgian budget have to be seen in the context of a budget significantly larger than the
today' one. It has also to be seen in the light of the progressive elimination or thinning down
of existing units whose necessity has vanished. Finally, the project has designed these new
units in order to minimize fixed recurrent costs, and to operate with a light structure, relying
on flexible, fungible and adaptable budgets.
- 61 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Years Ending
Bank Fiscal Year, Ending June 30
(US$ '000)
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs       1.3    7.3       4.6       9.5      5.7      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs        0.1     0.5       0.6      0.7       1.1      0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs      1.4    7.8       5.2      10.2      6.8      0.0       0.0
Total Financing          1.4    7.8       5.2      10.2      6.8      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA              1.2    6.3        4.1      8.6      5.7       0.0      0.0
Government            0.2     1.5       1.0      1.5       1.0      0.0      0.0
Central            0.2     1.4      0.9       1.4      0.9      0.0      0.0
Provincial         0.0     0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.0      0.0
Co-financiers         0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
User                  0.0     0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0
Fees/Beneficiaries
Others                0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project       1.4    7.8        5.2     10.2      6.8       0.0      0.0
Financing
Main assumptions:
Year 1: Project Preparation Facility (FY01)
Differences attributable to rounding.
- 62 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Procurement
6.1   This section describes the procurement arrangements under the First Adaptable Program
Credit (APC) in the amount of US$25.9 million equivalent ($31.93 million total project costs), in
support of the Education System Strengthening and Realignment Program. Bank-financed Civil
Works and Goods contracts under the project will be procured in accordance with the World
Bank Guidelines: Procuremnent under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995,
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (henceforth referred
to as Procurement Guidelines). Bank-financed contracts for Consulting Services required for the
Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines on the Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 (henceforth referred to Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and procurement
contracts not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the national regulations. The
project's expenditure categories, estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A and Al. Other procurement information, including an assessment of the procurement
capacity of the coordinating and implementing agencies and IDA's review processes is presented
in Tables B I and B2.
Notification of Business Opportunities
6.2   A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the May 31, 2000 issue of the
Development Business and will be updated annually thereafter for all outstanding procurement
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Specific Procurement Notices for
ICB procurement of Goods and Works will be advertised in Development Business as well as a a
national paper of wide circulation in both English and Georgian languages. Contracts procured
under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be advertised in a national paper of
wide circulation in Georgian language. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000, Specific
Procurement Notices/Requests for Expressions of Interest (SPNs) will be advertised in the
Development Business and in a major national newspaper (in the national and English
languages). All organizations/individuals responding to the GPN, will directly receive copies of
SPNs in their specified areas of interest by facsimile or email when the SPNs are advertised.
Procurement Arrangements
6.3   As the first IDA operation in the Education sector, the procurement arrangements under
the project are primarily based on IDA appraisal of the existing procurement management
capability of the Ministry of Education, and its implementing institutions including the PCU.
Experience and lessons learned from two ongoing IDA operations in the HD sector, namely,
Georgia Health Project and the Social Investment Fund Project, have been factored into the
design of the implementation and procurement management arrangements. A draft Procurement
Action Plan has been drawn, which provides a menu of actions and recommendations to build
procurement capacity in the PCU as well as other organizations (such as the Ministry of
Education itself) which have responsibility for the execution of the project components, and
therefore will be involved in the procurement process. The two PCU Procurement Officers will
- 63 -



be closely mentored by a Consultant Procurement Expert who would be contracted by the project
for an aggregate eight months over a period of two years. Subject to workload, it is conceivable
that the PCU may hire an additional person to act as a Procurement Assistant. The Consultant
Procurement Expert will assist PCU develop procurement documentation that conform to IDA
requirements, procurement monitoring instruments as well as an appropriate records keeping
system for contract management that will dovetail with the financial management requisites for
the project. In addition, training of the PCU staff in procurement procedures and techniques will
be a major focus of the Procurement Expert's assignment. This work was already initiated
during the project preparation period. Procurement and disbursements under the First APC are
synchronized in a manner allowing for a six-month disbursement lag from the time of
completion of a Credit-funded activity to the release of the Credit funds to the
supplier/contractor. Government entities are not eligible to participate in IDA financed contracts
unless they meet the criteria under World Bank Guidelines that they are legally, managerially
and financially autonomous.
Civil Works
6.4   Since the focus of this Project is on realigning the objectives of the educational system
and strengthening policy making capacity, there are few civil works to be awarded during the
implementation of this Project. The following procedures are scheduled to be used:
(i)   There is one civil works contracts to be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Rehabilitation of the Ministry of Education's building (called the
"Education Center") is estimated to value about $850,000, including taxes, physical and
price contingencies. The rehabilitation will be procured following ICB procedures, using
the Bank's standard Small Works bidding document and the evaluation will conform to
the Standard Bid Evaluation Form. For contracts to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the
Borrower may, with the agreement of IDA, grant a margin of preference in bid
evaluation. All ICB procedures are subject to Bank prior review.
(ii)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for the minor repair of 70
resource centers (RCs), i.e. one in each district of Georgia and five in Tbilisi. The
average cost of repairing (electrical repair, flooring, painting, secure from water damage,
and security door and window bars) each RC is about $7300. The repair of the 70 DRCs
will be done in one tender procedure of 3 lots each covering specific geographic areas of
the country. One contractor would not be allowed to win more than two lots (if the
bidder is qualified according to financial turnover and technical capacity requirements).
NCB procedures, conducted in this manner, are justified because of the very small nature
and wide geographical distribution of the DRCs. Large companies are not expected to be
interested in undertaking such an assignment, yet small companies would not have the
financial or technical capacity to undertake such a large contract. Each contract is
expected to value $170,000. National Competitive Bidding procedures may be used for
contracts valuing less than $300,000 up to aggregate limit of $600,000. Contracts will be
awarded on the basis of the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) for Procurement of Works through NCB (ECA Region
August 1999) translated into local language and Standard Bid Evaluation Form (April
1996) will be used accordingly. The Bank will prior review the first NCB procedure.
- 64 -



(iii)  Minor works (MW) procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$100,000. Three Minor
Works contracts are planned (two less than $20,000 each and one for less than $2000) in
years 2003 and 2004 for the minor repair (electrical wiring and security bars) for the sites
to be included in the implementation of the Education Management Information System
during those years; and eventually, for the installation of additional telephone lines in the
National Assessment and Examination Center. Minor Works procedures will require that
the Borrower obtain quotations from at least three qualified contractors in response to a
written invitation. The Invitation to Quote for Minor Works contracts shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic technical specifications, a Works
Activity Schedule on which the contractor will quote its price offer, the required
completion date, a form of agreement acceptable to IDA and the relevant drawings.
Contracts procured through MW procedure shall be awarded to the lowest priced
responsive bidder. The ECA Region's Sample Proposal Document for Writing Price
Quotations for Minor Civil Works (ECA Region) and Standard Bid Evaluation Form
(April 1996) will be used accordingly. The Bank will have prior reviewed a MW
procedure during the implementation of the Project Preparation Facility and will,
therefore, not expect to prior review MW during the implementation of the Credit.
Goods and Textbooks
6.5   Goods to be procured under the Project (aggregate US$10.0 million equivalent) consist
of: (i) information technology-related and other office equipment; (ii) printing and dissemination
costs; (iii) educational literature; (iv) vehicles; (v) office furniture; (vi) supplemental learning
materials; and (viii) mass media time and space. Such goods will be grouped to the extent
possible and considering timing of their use, in package sizes that will encourage competitive
bidding. Additionally, textbooks in the amount of $307,500 will be procured under the Project.
The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i)   International Competitive Bidding procedures will be used for contracts for goods
estimated at above US$100,000 equivalent. The total value of goods procured through
ICB is estimated at about US$0.85 million equivalent in the aggregate. ICB will be used
for the procurement of information technology related equipment; office equipment;
furniture; and video equipment. Four contracts (average value less than $200,000 each)
are expected to be awarded following ICB procedures. The Bank's SBD for the
Procurement of Goods and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used for ICB
procurement. For contracts to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, with
the agreement of the Bank, grant a margin of preference in bid evaluation, in accordance
with Section II, Paras 2.54 and 2.55, and Appendix 2 of the IDA Procurement Guidelines.
All ICB contracts are subject to Bank's prior review.
(ii)   National Competitive Bidding procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract for the procurement of printing and
dissemination (estimated to be about 31 contracts, with a total aggregate value of $1.39
million) and the procurement of a new textbooks in Georgian language (estimated to be
four contracts, with a total aggregate value of $97,100). Depending on the exact timing
of the printing actions, the PCU will combine printing requests to the extent possible to
reduce the number of contracts signed and ensure economies of scale. There will be three
- 65 -



contracts awarded to publishers/printers for the production and dissemination of multiple
copies of parents' and teachers' guides delivered to every district in the country. The
average value of these three contracts is expected to be about $122,700 which is greater
than the NCB threshold. These are exceptions to the NCB threshold and are found
justified given that the printing of a paper product and dissemination to all districts would
not likely be cost-effectively carried out by international printing houses and because of
the logistical difficulties international printing houses would have in delivering the
materials directly to the districts. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for
Procurement of Goods through NCB (ECA Region) translated into local language and the
Standard Bid Evaluation Form (April 1996) will be used accordingly. The request for
and approval of new textbooks for Grades 1- 4 will follow NCB procedures, based a
merit and cost based evaluation procedure. The Credit will finance in total about $97,100
of the new textbooks to replace the old textbooks in the textbook rental system pilot.
This amount is also like to divided between a few publishers (i.e. about 4 contracts).
However, the textbook approval process and the procurement will provide the basis for
new textbook approval system and lessons from this will be incorporated in Phase II and
Phase III of the APC, when a larger textbook rental system (and, therefore, larger
textbook procurement) may be implemented. The textbook approval and procurement
process will be in accordance with the Textbook Policy of the Education Sector Board
and with the related Standard Bidding Documents for Textbook Procurement which will
be adopted in due course. The Bank will prior review the first two NCB contracts
awarded for Goods and will specifically request the Borrower for the Bank to review the
procedure related to the selection and procurement of Textbooks although it will not
officially be subject to Bank's prior review.
(iii) International Shopping (IS). These procedures will be used for the procurement of
goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract. Seven international shopping
procedures, for smaller value contracts will be conducted for additional computer, office
and video equipment, as well as vehicles. On average each of these contracts will value
less than $76,600 (or an aggregate of $535,000). The IS procedures that will be followed
for these contracts consist of comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers/firms from two different eligible source countries. Invitations to Quote (ITQ)
under IS procedures shall indicate the description and quantity of the goods, as well as
the desired delivery time and place. The terms of the accepted offer shall be incorporated
in a purchase order. The ECA Region's format for the Invitation to Quote for IS contracts
will be used accordingly. In addition to the goods mentioned above, some supplemental
learning materials will be procured following shopping procedures. The Project is going
to provide each school in Georgia (approximately 3400) with an allocation from the
Credit for the purposes of financing supplemental learning materials; depending on the
size of the school the allocation will be between $350 - $800. A broad range of learning
materials that would enhance Georgian schools have been identified. These include non-
core books; maps with historical, political, and topographical information; alcohol-based
reproduction machines (also known as spirit duplicators or ditto machines), learning
games and flashcards; science and anatomy kits, etc. The Ministry of Education will
invite foreign and national producers of such types of learning materials (through a wide
six month long advertisement campaign) to provide these materials (either samples or
brochures) for three touring exhibitions that will display the learning materials. The
advertisement campaign will be used to notify all interested publishers as well as to
- 66 -



generate interest in adapting or producing additional learning material for the Georgian
market. Except for price considerations (as described below), the only goods that the
Ministry of Education will restrict from entering into the exhibitions are those that are
non-educational or contrary to established political or historical beliefs of the Georgian
Government. Representatives from each school will use an order form which lists the
goods (which will have a unique ID number) and the expected unit price. The unit price
will be an average unit price which will be based on a Price Agreement established
between the PCU and the each of the learning material publishers. The Price Agreement
will include a price quotation for a small, medium and large quantity of items to be
purchased (the actual range may vary depending on the type of good, i.e. low value
posters may be ordered in the thousands, while only a few hundred of the alcohol-based
reproduction machines may be purchased). In some cases, the learning material offered
will be considered a unique, proprietorial item (i.e. educational games). In which case,
the procurement of' that item would be considered a Direct Contracting procedure (see
below). In other cases, some suppliers may offer the exact same material (i.e. two
suppliers have authorization for distribution of the same book). In these cases, the
supplier offering the material at the least cost will be chosen for the exhibition. Finally,
in some cases, suppliers may offer similar but not identical material (i.e. maps and
globes). In this circumstance, the 3 suppliers with the lowest average unit price will be
accepted into the exhibition. In these latter two cases, this will be considered a shopping
procedure. It is unknown how many contracts result, but estimating that 60% of the
Learning Materials allocations will be spent on items falling into these categories (total
allocation is $6.05 million), then an addition $3.63 million of goods will be procured
following shopping procedures. The aggregate allocation for Shopping is, therefore,
$4.17 million. The Bank will prior review the first two contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping and will closely monitor the implementation of the supplemental
learning materials procurement.
(iv)   National Shopping (NS). These procedures will be used for the procurement of goods
and printing services estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate of about US$365,000 equivalent. National Shopping procedures will be
used for the purchase of a small amount of furniture and office equipment in the later
project implementation years (5 contracts, average value of $16,200) as well as small
value printing and dissemination contracts (about 25 contracts, average value of
$11,300). There are currently scheduled to be a larger number of small printing
contracts. Depending on the exact timing of the printing actions, the PCU will combine
printing requests to the extent possible to reduce the number of purchase orders and
reduce the burden on their capacity. NS procedures consist in comparing price quotations
obtained from at least three local suppliers/firms. Invitations to Quote (ITQ) shall
indicate the description and quantity of the goods, as well as the desired delivery time and
place. The terms of the accepted offer shall be incorporated in a purchase order. A
complete series of textbooks will be purchased for each student in 50 pilot schools
($187,500 in total) in order to pilot a textbook rental system in those schools for the four
year Phase I implementation period. In a few cases, there may be more than one
approved textbook for a particular grade and subject. In such cases, the least cost durable
edition (i.e. cover, paper and binding meet certain quality specifications) will be selected.
This will be considered a national shopping procedure. Assuming that one-third of the
textbooks will fall in this case, textbooks valuing about $69,500 will be procured using
- 67 -



national shopping procedures (possibly about 4-6 contracts with local publishers).
Therefore, the total aggregate threshold for national shopping is $435,000. The Bank will
prior review two national shopping procedures during the execution of the Project
Preparation Facility and, therefore, will not require prior review of any of the contracts
following NS procedures during the Credit.
(v)   In lieu of the International or National Shopping procedures for the purchase of vehicles,
information technology, office and audio visual equipment and furniture, the Borrower
may use the services of Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Being able to use IAPSO as a
procurement agent for goods falling under International or National shopping procedures
may reduce the procurement burden of the PCU and facilitate for efficient and cost-
effective selection of those goods. The aggregate limit of these goods is $900,000.
IAPSO would provide the PCU with quotations from at 3 suppliers from two countries.
The lowest responsive offer would be selected and the PCU would then enter into a
contract with IAPSO for the provision of that good. IAPSO requires a nominal
percentage of the total value of the goods being delivered to be paid as a procurement
agent fee and this would be eligible for financing as part of the total contract price. The
prior review of any contracts awarded under this procedure will fall within those
specified for international shopping.
(vi)   Direct Contract (DC). Direct contracting procedures will be used in accordance with
the criteria established in Paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.  As indicated, direct
contracting may be required for the purchase of proprietorial material (3.7 (c)). In the
case of the Georgian Education Project, Direct Contracting procedures will be used for (i)
textbooks which are approved for use in Georgian schools and for which there is no
alternative textbook approved for that grade and subject (see reference under national
shopping procedures); (ii) supplemental learning materials which are unique and
proprietorial (see reference under international shopping procedures); (iii) educational
reference literature for the Ministry of Education, related agencies, the PCU, and District
Resource Centers; and (iv) media time and space. The estimated value of these goods are
$140,900; $2.4 million; $68,500; and $383,600 respectively. Therefore, the aggregate
value for Direct Contracting is $3.01 million. All contracts awarded through Direct
Contracting procedures are subject to the Bank's prior review.
(vii)  In accordance with Paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, Community Participation in
Procurement will be used in the implementation of the School Improvement Plans
which call for the involvement of the community School Boards and, particularly, the
school Director for the procurement of small goods and services (aggregate $840,000).
As part of the Professional Development of Educators subcomponent (A3), the Ministry
of Education will announce a competition between schools of an individual district for
grants in an amount of $1000 each. During the second year of implementation 3 schools
in each of 70 districts will be selected; during the third year 3 more schools in all 70
districts will be selected; in the fourth year of implementation the number of schools in
each district doubles (i.e. 210, 210, and 420 schools). This schedule corresponds to
development of local school based professional development networks (i.e. once a school
has been awarded a grant into is also enrolled in the school based network which includes
the training of a cadre of teachers, provision of additional learning materials and direct
- 68 -



support from the District Resource Center, especially for the development of the school
improvement plan).  The grants are meant to spur creative educational initiatives.
Therefore, there will be a restriction on the use of the funds for certain equipment and
services that would likely exhaust all of the grant funds unless they are very well justified
under a plan for improving student learning. Salaries of school staff (teachers and
administrators) and other school operating costs will also be ineligible expenditures. It
will not be known in advance, but the Grant funds could be spent on such things as arts,
crafts, and cloth materials for the producing of plays; musical instruments to establish a
school band or class if there is a skilled musical teacher on staff; or a series of guest
lectures on literature, history, science; or didactic materials and basic equipment to
establish special resource centers, develop learning games and so on.  The actual
expenditures will be dependent on the ideas generated by the participating schools. The
grant applications will be developed by School Boards that will have been recently
appointed by the community. The successful applicants will enter into a contract with the
PCU and the full amount of the Grant will be disbursed into the school bank account.
Certain control mechanisms will be established to ensure the appropriate use of the Grant
funds. For instance, the Director will have to document each expenditure and verify the
reasonableness of the cost of that item. Shopping procedures when there are multiple
local providers of any single good will have to be used. Other financial management
control mechanisms are discussed below (see "Financial Management Arrangement and
Flow of Funds for the School Grants"). Each of these procedures will be elaborated in
the School Improvement Plan Manual, which must be approved by the Bank and adopted
by the Ministry of Education prior to any disbursements for these grants. The first 20
grants awarded to schools will be subject to the Bank's prior review, mainly to ensure that
the types of applications being approved are in accordance with agreed objectives.
Consultant Services and Training
6.6   Contracts for Consulting Services and training will be packaged to combine related skills
and services, in order to make them attractive and expand competition. Consultant services
consist of short- and long-term assignments to be contracted to firms and/or individuals (local
and/or foreign or jointly) depending on the nature and duration of the assignments. Selection
procedures will be generally be through competition among qualified short-listed consultants
The short lists for consultant services contracts with firms shall comprise three to six firms with a
wide geographic spread, and with no more than two firms from any one eligible country. The
consultants' short list may comprise entirely national consultants for consulting assignments that
are estimated to cost less than US$100,000. As an integral element of the project's capacity
building objectives, the Credit will also finance international study tours, and the local training
(in Georgia) of teachers and other education personnel through periodic seminars, workshops
and conferences organized by mainly by the PCU, but also through research institutes as well as
non-governmental institutions (NGOs).  The procurement of consultant services contracts
financed under the IDA Credit will be in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's Consultant
Guidelines. The World Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, Selection of Consultants, dated
July 1997 and revised July 1999, as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for
Consultant Services (July 1998) will be used accordingly. The consultant selection procedures
are as follows:
- 69 -



(i)    Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). This procedure will be used for contracting
consultant services (aggregate ) related to (a) supporting the development and
implementation of curriculum for primary and general secondary; (b) further developing
the system of national examinations and assessment; (c) supporting the development of a
school based professional development program, including the implementation of the
School Improvement Projects grants competition and the holding of nation wide raising
awareness workshops for all schools; (d) provision of advisory services in the area of
educational policy reform (the use financial, human resources, and physical resources)
and the establishment of a supporting education management informnation system; (e)
provision of advisory services in the establishment of a textbook evaluation and approval
system, the promotion of quality textbook authorship and production, and the
development of a textbook rental system initially on a pilot basis; (f) provision of project
management and procurement assistance to the Project Unit; and (g) public relations
advisory services. In all, six contracts are planned to be awarded following QCBS
procedures (aggregate $3 million). The average value of each contract would be about
$500,000 although two contracts (reference (b) and (c) above) are substantially larger in
scope than others.
(ii)   Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures will be used for contracting services valued
at less than $100,000 per contract (aggregate about US$836,000) related to (a) regular
impact assessments and surveys conducted to assess beneficiary reaction to the
assessment system as well as the school based professional development program; (b) the
.ontractor responsible for organizing the exhibition and consolidation of the orders for
the supplemental learning materials; (c) short policy studies in areas supporting the
development of policy reforms such as the growth of private sector general education; (d)
the programming of specific databases being developed as part of the EMIS
subcomponent and the training on the use of those databases; (e) the selection of an
organization which can support the PCU with the logistics of organizing conferences and
workshops; (f) sociological research organization to conduct surveys and focus groups;
and (g) advertising organization for the creation of public information materials and mass
media programs. In total, 19 contracts will be awarded following CQ procedures with an
average value of about $44,000.
(iii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for the services for the annual audit
of the Project Financial Statements and Accounts which include a procurement and
physical audit component. Aggregate amount procured through LCS is estimated at
US$137,000 equivalent. This expenditure is technically defined as an operating cost and
is included in the amount reported as part of the annual operating budget of the Project
Coordination Unit.
(iv)   Individual Consultants (IC) will be hired in accordance with Section V of the
Guidelines. Procedures for the contracting of Individual Consultants will be used for
specialized assignments that may either be of long-term or short term duration, including:
(a) long-term consultants expected to provide professional advice and build the capacity
of each of the MoE departments involved in implementation of the project and the long-
terrn professional level consultants of the Project Coordination Unit; (b) technical advice
in the organizational structure of the education sector, the development of severance
payment schemes, and experts called in to independently assess the optimization
- 70 -



strategies that are proposed; (c) services of local and foreign experts to assist the PCU
and the Project's implementing institutions in the area of project management and
procurement; (d) services of specialists and trainers to conduct and administer local
training courses, programs, workshops and seminars; (e) short-term publishing and
editing skills for the development of training and public information material; (f)
translators, especially for the translation of international learning materials and articles
for the purposes of the teacher training material; (g) short-term technical assistance in the
area of school building designs and standards; and (h) the mobilization of numerous
short-term working groups concentrating on the development of new curricula or
evaluating textboo]ks (aggregate US$4.3 million). In all about 376 individual contracts
will be awarded over the life of the Project, at an average value of US$11,500. However,
many of these conlracts will be uniform in nature (i.e. 210 contracts with trainers for the
teacher development subcomponent (70 trainers for 3 different types of training) and 75
contracts with individual subject matter experts for the textbook evaluation process). In
many other cases, contracts will be competitively selected during the initial Project
implementation period and, subject to satisfactory performance and mutual agreement,
will be renewed on an annual basis.
(v)   Single Source (SS) procedures will be used for selection of training institutions/providers
and the direct costs (travel costs, accommodation expenses, per diem allowances,
stationary and other training supplies, renting of conference spaces) for intemational
study tours, workshops, and conferences relevant to the project objectives (aggregate
US$3.6 million equivalent). Given the nature of the project which focuses on capacity
development (hence the international study tours, fellowships, training programs,
workshops and conferences); the intensive training of teachers in a decentralized manner
(which includes the payment of their travel and accommodation expenses and the
provision of training supplies to each of the 70 district resource centers); and requires a
high level of stakeholder participation and consultation (hence the large number of field
visits and the large number of people mobilized to attend such events as Raising
Awareness Workshops and consultations on Curriculum Reform), the large commitment
towards training is justified. Where possible the PCU will contract a local organization
(for in-country traLining) or the technical assistance providers (for external training) to
arrange for all of the logistics related to the training provision. These organizations will
be selected on a ccimpetitive basis (see above).
Incremental Operating Costs
6.7    Operating Costs  The project will generate incremental operating costs (aggregate
US$2.5 million) which include (a) procurement of office materials and supplies, regular
communications expenses and utilities, meeting expenses, in-country travel of PCU consultant
staff, banking charges, advertisement fees and fuel expenses for the PCU and for the operations
of the new National Assessment and Examination Center (NAEC); (b) salaries of incremental
staff of the PCU and of ihe NAEC; (c) maintenance, security and upkeep of the PCU; and (d)
Project audit expenditures (including those Credit and budget funds used to finance the NAEC).
Procurement of operating expenditure items including specific services (e.g. printing,
messengerial, etc.) will normally be carried out through NS procedure, or through a direct
contract with the service provider (e.g. communications). The planned annual budgets for both
the PCU and the National Assessment and Examination Center will be submitted by MoE/PCU
- 71 -



and agreed with IDA prior to the start of the financial year as part of the Annual Work Programs.
The incremental operating costs of other subcomponents (not the National Assessment and
Examination Center or PCU) will be born by the respective Government agency and are,
therefore, shown as non-Bank financed. The Operating Budget of the NAEC will be financed on
a declining each year as shown in Table C below on the Allocation of Credit Proceeds.
Non-Bank Financed Activities
6.8   Non-Bank Financed activities are not subject to World Bank procedures. In some cases,
they may be subject to rules and procedures defined by the Government of Georgia. Specific
activities which are non-Bank financed are (a) the textbook rental payments contributed by the
parents of students in the textbook rental system pilot schools and those costs associated with the
delivery of the textbooks from the district centers to the individual schools; and (b) the
operational costs of the Resource Centers which will be born by the local administrations. In
total, the non-Bank Financed activities related to the Project are estimated to value $0.7 million.
- 72 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs bv Procurement Arrangements (SS million equivalent)
1. Works - Rehabilitation and Minor Repair
a. Rehabilitation                                                           0.9                                      0.9
(0.7)                                   (0.7)
b. Minor Upgrading and Repair                                                         0.5       0.05                 0.6
(0.4)    (0.05)               (0.5)
2. Goods, including Supplemental Leairning Matenals
a. Information Technology and Office Equipment                              0.8                 0.7                  1.5
(0.6)               (0.6)               (1.2)
b. Printing and Dissemination                                                         1.4       0.2                  1.6
(1.1)     (0.2)               (1.3)
c. Educational Literature                                                                       0.1                  0.1
(0.1)               (0.1)
d. Vehicles                                                                                     0.1                 0.1
(0.1)               (0.1)
e. Funiture                                                                 0.2                 0.1                  0.3
(0.2)               (0.1)               (0.3)
f. Supplemental Learning Matierlas                                                              6.0                  6.0
(5.0)               (5.0)
g. Mass Media Time and Space                                                                    0.4                  0.4
_______         ~~~(0.3)             (0.3)
3. Textbooks and other Related Expenditures
a. Textbooks                                                                          0.1       0.2                  0.3
(0.1)     (0.2)               (0.3)
b. Textbook related expenditures: parents fee and local distribution                                      0.4       0.4
(0.0)     (0.0)
4. Consultant Services and Training
a. Consultant Services                                                                          8.3                 8.3
(6.7)               (6.7)
b. Training: Workshops, Conferences, Study Tours, and Fellowships                               3.6                  3.6
(3.6)               (3.6)
5. School Grants                                                                                     0.8                 0.8
(0.8)               (0.8)
6. Incremental Operating Costs
a. Incremental Operating Costs of the PCU                                                       0.8                 0.8
(0.7)               (0.7)
b. Incremental Operating Costs of the NAEC                                                       1.8                 1.8
(1.2)               (1.2)
c. 'Other Incremental Operating Costs                                                                     0.3        0.3
(0.0)     (0.0)
7. Refinacing of the PPF                                                                             1.4                 1.4
-(1.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (1.2)   (1.2)
8. Unallocated3                                                                                     (23                  2.3
________________________________________________________________(2.0)                           (2.0)
Total                                                                           1.9       2.0       26.8       0.7      31.4
(1.5)     (1.6)    (22.8)    (0.0)    (25.9)
11 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. Al costs include contingencies. Differences are attributate to rounding.
21 Includes civil works to be procured as minor works; goods to be procured through intemational and national shopping procedures as well as direct contracting: textbooks
to be procured through national shopping and direct contracting procedures; consultant services and training to be selected on the basis of QCBS, LCS, CQ. ss, and
Individual Consultant (refer to Table Al); School Grants which will be implemented following procedures relevant to Community Participabon in Procurement: Incremental
Operating Costs of the PCU and the NAEC which are disbursed based on agreed budgets; Refinancing of the PPF; and Unallocated Funds which, following the Projecrs Mid
Term Review, will be allocated to expand upon an already agreed Project activity (and corresponding procurement procedure).
3/ Unallocated consists of US$2 3 million of total project costs (US$2.0 million of Credit proceeds) that will be allocated during the Projects mid-term review for expansion of
earlier agreed activities such as the School Improvement Grants or the Textbook Revolving Fund (in which case the procurement procedures proposed would be consistent
with those of the earlier approved activities). In response to a request from the President of Georgia and subject to approval for a change in current Bank policy by the World
Bank Board of Directors, the funds could be allocated for financing of severance payments for education sector staff (which is not subject to World Bank procurement
Guidelines). The changes to the Credit Agreement would be reflected as as legal amendments subject to review and approval by the Bank and the Govemment of Georgia.
- 73 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arran  ments  ptional) (US$ million e uivalent)
A. Firms             3.06      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.84       3.70       0.00       7.60
(2.49)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.67)      (3.70)    (0.00)      (6-86)
B. Inidividuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       4.30       0.00       4.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)     (3.44)    (0.00)      (3.44)
Total   3.06      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.84        8.00      0.00       11.90
.______________   (2.49)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)         (0.67)     (7.14)     (0.00      10.30
!\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines) and Sole Source Selection for the
financing of training (including workshops, conferences, study tours and fellowships)
Note: Least-Cost Selection Method will be used for the selection of the Project auditors. However, audits will be financed
from the Incremental Operating Costs of the PCU expenditure category.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Review by the IDA of Procurement Decisions
6.10   Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the
project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table BI), which
will be updated as necessary and included in the progress reports for IDA review and approval.
IDA will review the procurement arrangements proposed by the Borrower, including contract
packaging, applicable procedures, and the scheduling of the procurement processes, for its
conformity with IDA Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, proposed implementation
program and disbursement schedule. The following procurement action/documentation would
be subject to Prior Review by IDA.
(a)    Civil Works: Prior review of bidding document package (including inter alia, Invitation
to Bid, Instructions to Bidders and Bid Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of
Contract, Bid Forms, Schedule of Requirements, Technical Specifications), Bid
Evaluation Reports; and Recommendations of Contract award will be conducted for: (i)
all ICB contracts (contracts above $300,000 of which there is one); and (ii) the first
works contracted through NCB.
(b)    Goods (including Supplemental Learning Materials) and Textbooks: Prior review of
bidding document package (including inter alia, Invitation to Bid, Instructions to Bidders
and Bid Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract, Bid Fonrs, Schedule of
Requirements, Technical Specifications), Bid Evaluation Reports; Recommendations of
Contract award and draft Contract will be conducted for: (i) all ICB tenders (contracts
above $100,000); (ii) first contract awarded through NCB; (iii) first two contracts
awarded through international shopping procedures; and (iv) all contracts awarded
through the Direct Contracting method.
- 74 -



(c)   Consultant Services and Training: Prior review of procurement documents and actions
will be conducted for:
(i)   Individual C'onsultant contracts of US$20,000 and above and for contracts with
Firms valued at US$50,000 and above: (1) short listing criteria for consulting
assignments, (2) Consultants Short Lists (three to six consultants per assignment);
(3) complete Request for Proposal (RFP) package (including Invitation,
Information to Consultants and Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of
Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal standard forms,
and draft Contract Agreement); (4) Terns of Reference, including description of
services, consultants' reporting requirements, and required qualifications of
consultants' key personnel; (5) Technical and Financial Evaluation Reports
(including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract award; and (6)
agreed Contract and Terms of Reference
(ii)  Individual Consultant contracts below US$20,000 and for contracts with Firms
below US$50,000: (1) criteria for short listing consultants; and (2) Terms of
Reference;
(iii)  Expenditures related to the provision of Training - Terms of Reference, including
budget; and
(iv)   For all Single Source Contracts for Consultant Services - same requirements as
for c) (i) above.
(d)   School Grants:  Prior review of the first 20 contracts awarded to Schools for the
implementation of School Improvement Projects.
6.11  Following the award of procurement contracts, IDA reserves the right to conduct Prior
Review of any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract which
would result in a significant change in the scope of the contract (Terms of Reference in the case
of consultant services) and/or an increase or decrease of more than fifteen percent of the original
contract amount.
6.12  Post-Review. For those contracts below IDA's prior review threshold, are subject to
IDA's ex-post review. Periodic ex-post review by IDA of not less than 1 in 5 procurement
contracts will be undertaken during regular supervision missions.
Custom Duties and Taxes
6.13  All goods specifically imported for the project (with the exception of textbooks) will be
subject to the payment of customs duties and local value-added taxes (VAT) normally equivalent
to 20% of the CIP costs. Textbooks approved by the Ministry of Education are, according to the
Georgian Tax Code, exempt from Taxation. Works contracts are likewise subject to VAT (20%
built into the contract price). Consultant firms (including foreign consultants) providing services
under the project are not exempt from the payment of local taxes (VAT and Profit Tax, 20% and
10% respectively) on their earnings. Individual consultants (regardless of residency) are subject
to income tax (20% of income prior to including employer-paid social taxes), social taxes (3%
- 75 -



employee and 31% employer-paid taxes on the net income amount), and VAT (20% total
contract value) of for those contracts valuing more than $13,000 equivalent. All duties and taxes
are paid from the Government contribution. Social payments are actually a benefit of the
employee and a contribution to the social funds for pension, unemployment, and medical
insurance. The payment of these contributions are included in the amount eligible for Bank
financing.
Action Plan for strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
6.14  Based on an appraisal of the capacity of the MOE and PCU to manage and conduct
procurement, and the information gathered, the following actions were identified and
recommendations are made for improving the MoE/PCU's institutional capacity in this field:
(i)    Establish a procurement team within PCU consisting of two full time Procurement
Officers. As needed, this procurement team will be assisted by support staff to handle the
processing of procurement documentation and the organization of procurement files
consistent with the financial management requirements of the project.
(ii)   A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been opened for the project. The PPF is
financing:
(1)   the services (3 staff months) of a consultant procurement technical expert who
will provide training and hands-on preparation assistance to PCU in drafting the
bidding and RFP documents that will meet the Association' procurement
standards and requirements. The draft bidding documents and RFP documents for
the first year of project implementation are being required as a condition of
negotiations.   The Procurement Consultant will also be conducting in
collaboration with the PCU, in-country procurement workshop(s) for personnel of
MoE's implementing units involved in procurement activities under the project;
(2)   participation of the Procurement Officers and key PCU  staff in intensive
procurement training abroad (e.g. ILO procurement courses in Turin).
(iii)  Finalize the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and ensure that the procurement
procedures described therein for the acquisition and contracting of works, goods and
services related to the project inputs supported by the Credit are consistent with IDA
Procurement Guidelines. IDA's comments and clearance will be obtained in the process
of updating the PIP to reflect experience from the training received, and incorporate
suggested processes that would improve implementation.
(iv)  It is expected that IDA supervision missions will be scheduled twice a year. The
supervision team will include a Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS). During Project
preparation and PPF implementation, the PAS for the Project has been resident in
Georgia which has provided by the Borrower with significant on-the-ground support.
(v)   Fairly intensive procurement management support (8 months total) by a Consultant
experienced with World Bank procurement procedures will be continued during the first
two years of project to specifically assist with each step of the procurement or selection
- 76 -



process as well as with contract administration issues arising during contract
management.
Table B1 Summar of Procurement Activities
Worksllll|ll           w     1    1     1 | 1 
Procurement  Above      Above       N.A.       N.A        Below                                         j
thresholds    $300,000   $50,000                          $50,000
Individual
and aggregate           Aggregate:                        Aggregate:
1 $600,000  1                     $100,000     1                1     _1
Prior Review  All       First                             None
contract
Goods
Procurement  Above      Below       Below      Below       N.A.         Direct
thresholds:    $100,000   $100,000   $100,000   $30,000                 Contracting
Individual                                                              (DC): $3.01
and aggregate Aggregate:  Aggregate: Aggregate: Aggregate:             nmillion aggregate  60%
$0.85      $1.49      $4.17      $435,000
mnillion       million  million                            Community
Participation in
Procure-
ment (CPP):
$840,000
aggregate
IAPSO (in lieu of
shopping):
$900,000
aggregate
Non-Bank
Financed (NBF):
$1.4 mnillion
|__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __    |aggregate
- 77 -



Prior Review    All       First two    First two    None                    DC:
packages   (2)         (2)                                    All contracts
contracts   contracts
CPP:
First Twenty (20)
Grants
IAPSO: First two
2 contracts
NBF: Not
reviewed
Consultants  Aggregate:  Not          Not        Aggregate: Aggregate:    Aggregate:          Aggregate:
$3 rnillion   Applicable  Applicable  $137,000   $836,000     $3.6 rniillion    $4.3 million
Prior Review                                                 TOR and        Justification,    TOR and
as per Bank   All Steps                           All Steps   qualifications  TOR and contract qualifications for
Guidelines                                                   for all        for all Consultant  all assigmnents.
assignmnents.   Services        Contracts above
Contracts     assignments.      $20,000 (all
above                           steps).
$50,000 (all   TORs for all
steps).       Training
Assignments
Ex-post                                                                                       Ex-post review
Review                                                                                        mechanism:
Review carried
out in
accordance with
Para. 4 of
Appendix I of
the Bank's
Guidelines and
reviews during
supervision
missions of not
less than I in 5
contracts.
- 78 -



Table B2 Procurement Capacity Assessment
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
Overall responsibility for Project management and
coordination will rest with the Ministry of Education. A
Project Management Committee established under MoE
will approve work programs and budgets, evaluate
implementation progress and recommend changes in
project design or sequencing. A Project Coordination
Unit will be responsible for day-to-day follow up of
implementation activities. Specifically, PCU will
undertake all project procurement and financial
management. The PCU will be supported by Technical
Assistance consisting of: Procurement Specialist,
Financial Management, Information Systems Specialists
and Technical Advisors.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions
Procurement Strategy Paper status. A CPAR for the  for the first year ready by negotiations ?
Republic of Georgia has not been completed. Georgia    Yes [X ]  No [ I
passed, in 1998, a National Procurement Law which  Those procurement actions valuing greater than
embodies internationally accepted basic procurement  $100,000 and necessary to be initiated during the first
principles (transparency, efficiency and economy) and    year of implementation are currently being prepared as a
has drafted a set of procedural guidelines/regulations to   condition of negotiations.
implement the new law. While in broad tenns, the
provisions of the procurement law and implementing
regulations resonate with provisions in the Bank
Procurement Guidelines, in more specific
project/operational terms, there are provisions in the
Georgian procedure that are not compatible with Bank
procedure. For this Project, the Government will follow
the agreed Bank procurement procedures as described in
this document and in the Development Credit
Agreement.     _
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: August
2001
Date of publication of General Procurement Notice:
May 31 2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory
SPN in Development Business:
Yes [X]   No
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes [X]    No
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: Yes [X]
No
Retroactive financing: Yes [ ]   No [X]
Advance procurement: Yes [ ]     No [X]
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires
Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement
Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA
are anticipated. The PCU will maintain complete
procurement files which will be reviewed by IDA
supervision missions scheduled twice a year. The
Procurement Plan will be updated no less than semi-
annually. Procurement information will be recorded by
PCU and reflected in the quarterly and annual progress
- 79 -



reports submitted to IDA. This information will include
updates of: cost estimates for the different contracts;
timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; as well as compliance with
aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement. A
project specific Management Information System with
an associated procurement module will help the PCU
monitor all procurement infonnation. A contract coding
system has already been established as part of the
procurement plan.
Co-financing: No
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part
of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Name: K. Hurt        Ext: Georgia RM
Prior to the PAS accreditation, the Project was
supported by G. Novotny.
K. Hurt is currently a PAS for Goods and Services. For
CW procurement the team will use the assistance of G.
Novotny (a fully accredited procurement staff member
who also works in Georgia on other projects).
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
6.15 The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines provided
in the IDA "Disbursement Handbook". Phase I of the program which is financed under the first
APC has been designed to be implemented over a four year period. As the Project is the first
IDA operation in the Education sector, the procurement and disbursement arrangements are
based on IDA's appraisal of the procurement and financial management capability of the
implementing ministry and its institutions, as well as the experience and lessons learned from
two ongoing IDA operations in the HD sector: Georgia Health Project and the Social Investment
Fund Project. Project procurement and disbursements under the first APC (Phase I) are
synchronized in a manner that allows for a six-month disbursement lag from the time of
completion of a Credit-funded activity to the release of the Credit funds to the
supplier/contractor. Credit funds are expected to be fully disbursed within eighteen (16) quarters
after the expected effectiveness date of July 1, 2001. The Project Completion Date is December
31, 2004 with a Credit Closing Date of June 31, 2005. The disbursement categories and amounts
and percentages to be financed under each category are presented in Table C, as follows:
- 80 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Works                                     1130000.00                      84%
2. Goods, including Supplemental Leaming     8030000.00     100% of foreign expenditures,
Materials                                                   100% of local expendiares (ex-factory) and
80% of local expenditures for items procured
locally
3. Consultant Services                       6310000.00                      80%
4. Training, including Workshops, Conferences,    3430000.00                 100%
Study Tours and Fellowships                .
5. Textbooks                               _260000.00                        100%
6. School Grants                              840000.00                     100%
7. Operating Costs of the National Assessment  1090000.00    95% until December 31, 2002; 80% until
and Examination Center                                      December 31, 2003; 65% until December 31,
2004; and 50% thereafter
8. Incremental Operating Costs of the Project  560000.00                     85%
Coordination Unit
10. Refinancing of the PPF                   1150000.00    Pursuant to the Agreement
11. Unallocated                              3100000.00
Total                                       25900000.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
6.16   Disbursement arrangements under the project will carried out using SOE procedures (i)
for works costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (ii) for goods costing less than US$100,000
equivalent; (iii) for services of consulting firms costing less than US$50,000; (iv) for services of
individual consultants costing less than US$20,000; and (v) for training, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. The required supporting
documentation and other records would be retained by the PCU for at least one year after the
receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be mnade available for review by the independent auditors and by the
visiting IDA staff upon request. Phase I of the APC will be disbursed in accordance with
traditional disbursement methodologies. The capacity of the PCU and experience with using
PMR-based reports will be assessed prior to Phase II of the APC to assess the feasibility of using
PMR-based disbursements during Phase II.
Special account:
6.17   To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the PCU,
denominated in US Dollars, in a bank acceptable to IDA. The selection process and criteria for
selection of the bank would follow IDA standard selection procedures. Payment of eligible
expenditures (civil works, goods, services, grants, severance payments, and operating costs) may
be made by the PCU out of the Special Account. The authorized allocation is US$800,000. The
initial deposit into the Special Account will be US$500,000, until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$2.5 million.
The Special Account would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or when the undisbursed
- 81 -



balance falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first. Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will be accompanied
by full documentation, including monthly bank statements of the Special Account, for all items
except those eligible for disbursement on the basis of the SOEs. All other applications for direct
payment or issuance of Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20 percent of
the Special Account allocation.
6.18  The PCU will also open a project account into which a share of the Government's
contributions will be deposited every year. A deposit by the Government Counterpart Fund in
the amount of US$ 125,000 is a condition of project effectiveness (estimated to be the counterpart
funding requirements for the first 3 months of Project implementation). Thereafter, the amount
deposited by the Government shall be in accordance with the Project Management Reports
submitted quarterly to the Ministry of Finance and to IDA by the PCU. This amount will be
deposited no later than June 15 and December 15 of each year. All Project accounts will be
autonomous and will be audited annually by an independent auditing firm acceptable to IDA on
terms of reference previously agreed with IDA.
Direct Payment:
6.19  This method may be used to facilitate payments to international consultants. Direct
deposits to foreign bank accounts can be requested by submitting the appropriate withdrawal
application supported by a contract copy and original invoices.
Financial Mana2ement
Implementing Entity
The project presents various layers of financial management functions and oversight. The
Ministry of Education (MoE) will be responsible executing agency for implementing the project
on behalf of the Government of Georgia (GOG) and in coordination with the Ministry of Finance
(MoF). The strategic governance of the project would be provided by a Project Management
Committee (PMC), consisting of the Minister of Education, all Deputy Ministers, key heads of
Departments and heads of agencies essential for project implementation. The PMC, among other
supervisory and monitoring functions, would approve annual work programs and budget for the
entire project.
There will be a specific Deputy Minister, Department Head or Agency Director
responsible for implementing each sub-component (so-called Sub-component Leaders) who,
supported by specific working units, will be responsible - among others activities directing and
monitoring implementation - for proposing the annual work-plan and budget for that sub-
component. The information on physical and financial inputs/outputs for the various sub-
components will be passed on to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), responsible for their
recording, consolidation and preparation of project financial and project progress reporting.
- 82 -



Project Coordination Unit
The PCU, established as a separate legal entity (Subject of Public Law) by Presidential
Decree, will act as a service-provider to the MoE with regard to various implementation aspects
and will be responsible, among others, for ensuring that effective project monitoring and periodic
progress report are carried out (consolidating financial and working plans of each component)
and that project resources are appropriately managed in accordance with Bank fiduciary
requirements for procurement, disbursement and financial management.
The activities of the PCU are governed by a Charter articulating the distribution of
oversight responsibilities on project execution between MoE - for the technical aspects -and
Ministry of Finance (MoF), playing a supervisory role on project disbursement and financial
transactions. The PCU, although already operational and staffed with key personnel (Director,
Chief Accountant, Procurement Specialist, Administrative Assistant - all consultants) will be
legally established by Negotiations. Approval of the Charter is also condition for Negotiations.
Project accounting and reporting
The PCU, where satisfactory financial management arrangements - in terms of human
resources, computerized accounting and documentation of the financial management system - are
already in place, will centrally manage accounting, disbursement (from IDA Credit and
Government counterpart funds), procurement and financial reporting under the project. All
accounting and disbursement records, including documentation for SOE expenditure, will be
retained within the PCU premises. A locally developed accounting software (ORIS), customized
for Project Management Reports (PMR) preparation, is already in use at the PCU to track funds
and expenditure under the PHRD Grant and the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), both assisting
project preparation activities. Comprehensive and detailed User's Manual and Financial System
Manual have been prepared with the assistance of a local consultant financed under the PHRD
Grant. The PCU accountant attended a recent session of ILO Financial Management and
Disbursement training. Unfortunately, this training will have to be repeated due to turnover in
the PCU accountant staff position. Sufficient PPF and Project Funds are available for this
purpose. The enhancement of the PCU financial management system, including documented
operational procedures satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of Board presentation.
As determined during appraisal, in reason of the elevated number of project participants
(District Resource Centers, Schools, National Assessment and National Evaluation Center, etc.)
implementing the various sub-components' micro-activities, the transfer of funds to the project's
implementing entities will require the examination of a massive amount of expenditure
documentation (invoices, receipts, etc., to determine their eligibility) and maintenance of records
by the PCU. Therefore, once the relevant activities will start, the PCU Financial department
staffing will be completed by means of hiring: (i) a Financial assistant, who will be responsible
for checking propriety of expenditure and completeness of supporting documentation; and (ii) a
Disbursement specialist, who will be responsible for preparing disbursement records and
processing payments, allowing in turn appropriate division of tasks and responsibilities.
- 83 -



Internal Controls
In order to ensure adequate segregation of duties, the PCU Accountant will review and sign off
on disbursement applications and expenditure reimbursement claims prepared by the
Disbursement specialist/ Financial assistant before transmitting it to the PCU Director for
approval. The signatory authority for disbursing and withdrawing project funds as well as for
payments to suppliers on all contracts financed under the project would be assigned to the PCU
Director jointly with the Minister (or a First Deputy Minister); the Minister's personal approval
will be required for all payments above a specified threshold (most likely the procurement prior
review threshold set out for each disbursement category), to be agreed upon at Negotiations.
Registers for project fixed assets, equipment and other goods transferred to District Resource
Centers, National Assessment and Examination Center will be maintained by the PCU.
Financial management arrangements and flow of funds at the Local Education
Departments level
Project implementation would be substantially deconcentrated with the local level
"rayonal" Local Education Departments (LED) of the MoE having significant responsibilities in
areas such as teacher training.
To ensure that funds are not commingled with any other resources, financing of activities
from Credit proceeds - to be made according to the approved budget - will consist of a monthly
release of funds from the PCU transit account to a separate sub-account within the 70 local
administrations' current treasury accounts, on which the PCU will have full control in terms of
movements/balances. Eligible expenditure will be replenished by the PCU on the basis of a
written request prepared at the LED and submission of suitable documentation supporting the
reimbursements claimed, to be maintained under a ceiling to be determined (likely equal to one
sixth of the approved yearly budget, to allow the LED to cope with possible delays which are
expected to occur in the funds transfer process).
Within the LEDs, the director and the accountant will be involved in disbursing the funds
to the training organizers (local RC) and participants, based on a pre-approved budget and terms
of reference. The circumstance that advances will be provided to teachers for travel and
subsistence implies the maintenance of some petty cash (in reason of the scarce circulation of
bank checks and electronic payments), which will be accounted for against the advances
provided to trainees and documented evidence of expenditure (i.e. receipts, invoices, etc.). Petty
cash ceilings will be also agreed upon during Negotiations.
The RC Coordinator will report on expenditure preparing a statement of expenses, based
on a form to be designed by the PCU accountant in three copies: one copy - together with the
attached receipts - will be sent to the PCU for replenishment of the account. A second copy
should be passed to the local education department accounting unit, and the third copy is to be
retained at the RC. At the PCU the statements of expenses will be reviewed and signed by the
sub-component coordinator (similarly to all other payment requests for the other components of
the project), approved by the PCU coordinator and processed within the PCU financial
department.
- 84 -



Financial management arrangement and flow of funds for the Schools Grants
For the School grants (100 percent financed from the Credit) under Component 1
(Realignment of the Primary and General Secondary System Objectives), grants of an amount up
to 1,000 US dollars will be transferred directly to participating schools (about 800), selected on
competitive and contractual bases (as set out in the Manual and Contract for the Implementation
of the Education Grant Scheme, whose approval is a condition for disbursement), in
consideration of their proposals for the establishment of school learning improvement programs.
The average duration of the program would be one year. The Grant allocation and utilization
modalities are being defined in a standard Agreement to be entered between the PCU and each
participating school, also specifying financial management procedures associated to programs
implementation.
At present, schools are not authorized to maintain bank accounts, but it is expected that
the MoE will shortly issue a new by-law allowing schools to maintain separate bank accounts.
The principal and the school cashier will be respectively in charge of funds management and
record keeping, including reporting to the PCU on Grant execution on a quarterly basis as well as
upon completion. It is expected that local communities (teachers' associations, families'
representative groups, etc.) will play an important role in overseeing Grant program
implementation and results (thus preventing Grant managers from unpurposeful utilization),
through predisposition of adequate publicity, documentation and data-sharing as well as trainees
study tours and filmed evidence (photos, movie) by the local DRC Coordinator.
Financial management arrangements and flow of funds for the Textbook Rental System
As to the textbook rental system, a set of books will be initially purchased (either ex-
factory in Georgia or licensing printers abroad) using Credit proceeds; subsequently, schools will
have to generate income (fees) to replace and renew textbooks. To this extent, financial resources
will be transferred to a pool, maintained in a separate bank account, managed by the PCU, which
will in turn report back to participating educational institutions producing quarterly bank
statements (showing the operations and the balance of the bank account).
Financial management arrangements and flow of funds for the National Assessment and
Examination Center
A National Assessment and National Evaluation Center (NAEC) will be established, as a
legal entity, by Governmental Decree and, under the first phase of the APC, its costs will be
financed from the Credit on a declining basis. It is therefore expected that the Center will receive
an increasing amount of budgetary allocations and that, by the end of the second phase, it will be
fully financed by state resources and income-generated activities. As to the receipt of Credit
proceeds, the Center will have its annual budget reviewed and approved by the MoE and the
Bank, following the formats prescribed for budgetary institutions in Georgia and organized on a
monthly basis. Based on the provisions of an Implementation Agreement entered between the
Center and the PCU, this will transfer the corresponding percentage of the monthly budget to the
Center. The Center will be then required to report on the execution of its budget. In each
subsequent tranche release, the PCU will have to ensure that the total funds provided to the
Center remain no greater than the allowable percentage of financing established on the basis of
the Center's "executed" budget. This measure is aimed at ensuring that the State finances its
- 85 -



share in full and in a timely fashion (the PCU will be responsible only for monitoring the
operating costs of the Center financed under the Credit). The Center will be subject to annual
audits. The signature of the Agreement - detailing, among others, the financial reporting
procedures from the Center to the PCU - will be a condition of disbursement for the Center's
operating costs.
The following chart summarizes the flow of funds under the project:
- 86 -



Flow of Funds and Data in the Project
Request for SA repi.
PC U                    -------------------   World Bank
' I * ' : ' 1~~~~-------------------   
'J _                                 ~~~~~~~~~~$
A                                I 
IIDir. Paym. request                   $
Paym. order                 D                                                   Funds Flow
v                     t  ,      paym. order
_   l  l                  ~~~~~Special Account/
bank account
co- financing/                                                                      Flow of Data
GEL            i   Paym. order
_   , _   '                                 ~~~~~~~~Conversion 
e    4      ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~!             Transit|
=,                 !                 :~---------  Account/GEL     |
|   t    |    ~~Local             68 district       PCU petty        816 school      Foreign
|   5  '    ~Suppliers,           budget sub           cash             bank          Suppliers,
-  ,   ~Contractors,           -accounts                          acutfr          Contractors,
Consultants                                                              Consultants
Il I
I           IiI
::   '   '                         i   ~~~~~~~~~Paym. request 
a    ,   :   ,                   ~~~~~~~~Petty Cash in 68  _ 
,   ,                ~~~~~~resource centers
i ' ~Invoices
I ~ ~ ~   ~        ~ I
| Lottycal6tsh report /repl request                           e            6 s                       Invoices
- 87 -



Disbursement arrangements
The Special Account (currency: US dollars) will be opened and maintained within a bank
acceptable to the Association; a project account (for counterpart funds) and transit accounts, to
be utilized for disbursing the local currency Lari component of the Credit - will also be opened
and maintained.
In consideration of the project needs in terms of swift/smooth disbursement, the initial
allocation into the SA would be up to 2 percent of the Credit amount and, when the total
disbursement will have totalized US dollars 2.5 million, it would be elevated to about 5 percent.
The possibility to establish trigger amounts for replenishment will be evaluated during
Negotiations.
Since transit accounts will be needed to transfer funds to the rayons' sub-accounts and to
the schools participating to the Grant program, these will be maintained substantially idle (at the
end of the month, prior to the new release of funds, their balance should be ideally close to zero).
The PCU will have to ensure that the described mechanisms and requirements are consistently
met by all project implementing entities.
Based on the joint consideration of: (i) country-specific risks (perceived level of
corruption, weak management capacity both at the central and local government levels,
underdeveloped financial intermediation); and (ii) as well as project-specific conditions
(necessity for the PCU to become acquainted with PMR, including refinement of forecasting
capabilities), in principle the first phase of the APC project will be disbursed following
traditional methods (direct payments and replenishment of the SA through SOE procedures).
The transition to PMR disbursement during the first phase will be reviewed and will be one of
the criteria leading the financial management appraisal of the second phase of the APC.
Financial management during project implementation
In terms of financial management supervision, during project implementation the resident
mission's operations analyst will ensure on-site, continued monitoring that financial management
arrangements are satisfactorily in place. At least once a year, the FMS assigned to the project
will join the supervision mission to review the adequacy of accounting, reporting and internal
controls in the light of the progress achieved and possible problems arising during project
execution. This will include review of SOEs on a sample basis as well as reconciliation of SA
and other project bank accounts. The FMS will also review the project audit reports, assessing
the need for follow up actions on specific financial accountability issues by the Team, including
quality of audit work.
Auditing arrangements
In terms of auditing arrangements, project audits will be financed out of the Credit (under
Operating Expenses disbursement category) and carried out by independent, private sector
auditors acceptable to the Bank and selected on a competitive basis applying the least-cost
procurement method. Process of selection of auditors well on track (approval by the Bank Terms
of Reference and no-objection to the short-list of audit firms) would be a condition of Board
presentation. Appointment of auditors (contract signature) would be a condition of effectiveness.
- 88 -



The first audit report, to be received not later than June 30, 2001 will cover 1999 and
2000 financial years for tlhe PHRD Grant and the PPF assisting project preparation (to this
extent, a waiver to the receipt of the 1999 audit - allowing its combination with the 2000 audit -
was granted by the Regional Financial Management Advisor's office based on the thorough
examination of SOEs carried out by the Team during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions).
Given the complexity of the project's financial management arrangements and the
perception of the inherent risks deriving from the articulated flow of funds and associated
administrative, accounting and financial control routines, it is envisaged that the external auditors
will conduct:
*   interim reviews (every six-months);
*   as well as yearly full-fledged audits.
In order to ensure that funds are used efficiently and effectively and for the purpose
intended, the audit work will also comprise on-site inspections of randomly selected DRCs in
different rayons (on a rotational basis, aimed at progressively covering all DRCs), to review their
books, perform physical inventory of equipment, cash-count and all needed reconciliation with
PCU records.
An Operational Review of the activities under the project, including administration of
severance pays (which will involve a Beneficiary Assessment), will be conducted for the first
year of program execution, with the objective to provide an overview of the suitability of the
arrangements devised during project preparation as well as to indicate any necessary corrective
measures to be introduced to improve program efficiency and effectiveness.
The next audit report for the Project covering PPF and project expenditures incurred
during 2001 - at December 31, 2001, covering PMRs, Statement of Expenditure and Special
Account statements - will become due on June 30, 2002. Audit reviews and audit reports will be
thereafter received by the Bank respectively, by December 31 and by June 30 of each year of
implementation of the first phase of the APC. Audit TOR, detailing the special procedures
described above, are being prepared by the PCU and will be cleared by the Bank prior to Board
presentation.
Conclusions
The financial management risks associated to the project were perceived, during project
preparation, as substantially high; however, the introduction of the proposed mitigation
strategies: (i) institutional set-up (project governance and management); (ii) project activities
ring-fencing, (iii) reliable and timely accounting and reporting; (iv) sound internal controls; (v)
interim as well as annual financial audits; and (vi) the operational review to be conducted after
the first year of implementation, jointly with adequate project monitoring and supervision efforts,
would ensure the maintenance of proper financial management arrangements and contribute to
make the overall risk acceptable.
- 89 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Time takeii to prepare the project (months)
18                  19
First Bank mission (identification)              06/22/99              06/22/99
Appraisal mission departure                    04/23/2000            04/23/2000
Negotiations                                   12/18/2000            01/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/15/2001
Prepared by:
Education PCU, Ministry of Education, and Bank team
Preparation assistance:
Project preparation was greatly assisted by the Japanese Government through the
provision of a project preparation PHRD Grant. Preparation was also assisted by the
Dutch, Finnish and New Zealand governments, through the provision of technical
assistance financed by Consultant Trust Funds.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Yael Duthilleul       Program Team Leader, Education Specialist
James Socknat         Education Sector Manager
Elene Imnadze         Public Sector Management
Helen Shahriari        Sociologist
Kari Hurt             Operations and Procurement
Roberto Tarallo       Financial Management
Levan Kvinikadze      Financial Management
Gyorgy Novotny        Procurement
Deborah Trent         Program Assistant
- 90 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
Georgia Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program PIP, September
2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Georgia Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program PCD, June 1999
* Georgian Education Social Assessment, Helen Shahriari, WB, 1999
* Country Assistance Strategy, September 1997
C. Other
*  Georgia: Education Strategy Note, WB, November 1998
*  The Georgian E,ducation System: Issues for Reform Management, Gill Perkins, WB,
August 1998
*  Cost and Finance in Education in Georgia, Francois Orivel, Iredu/CNRS, Universite
de Bourgogne, August 1998
* Institutional Analysis Report, Curatio International Foundation and Georgian
Institute of Democracy, January 1999
* Curriculum and Standards in Georgia, Yael Duthilleul, WB, June 1998
* Student Assessment and Examinations in Georgia, Yael Duthilleul, WB, November
1998
* Teachers and Teaching Practices in Georgia, Yael Duthilleul, WB, November 1998
* Study on Teaching Practices and Assessment if Training Needs, Juana M. Sancho
and Fernando Hernandez, University of Barcelona, Spain
* Review of Georgian Standards and Curriculum, Peter Lee et al, Institute of
Education, University of London, November 1998
*  Textbook Provision in Georgia, International Book Development, August 1998
*  Assessment of Student Outcomes in Georgia, Steven Bakker, CITO, The
Netherlands, January 1999
* Assessment of EMIS in Georgia, Farid Abillama, April 1999
* The Georgian Vocational Education and Training System, Chris Sealy, January 2000
* The Georgian Higher Education System, Jochen Lorentzen, Copenhagen Business
School, November 1999
*Including electronic files
- 91 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Feb-2001
Difference between
Original Amount in                             expected
US$ Millions                               and actual
disbursementsa
Project   FY            Purpose          IBRD   IDA        GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig        Frm
[D                                            I____Rev'd
P065715  2000  AGR RES EXT & TRG          0.00   7.60      0.00    0.00       7.06       0.63      0.00
P040556  2000  ROADS                       0.00  40.00     0.00    0.00      38.81       0.00      0.00
P064091  2000  AGRIC RES. EXT.            0.00   0.00      2.48    0.00       2.34       0.05      0.00
TRAINING (GEF)
P056514   1999  TRANS MIN RESTRUCT    0.00   2.30          0.00    0.00       1.76       1.67      0.00
P057813   1999  JUDICIAL REFORM           0.00   13.40     0.00    0.00      11.67      -1.33      0.00
P060009  1999  INTGR COASTAL MGMT   0.00   0.00             1.30    0.00      1.21       0.24      0.00
(GEF)
P052154  1999  STRUCT REF SUPPORT    0.00   16.50          0.00    0.00      12.11       4.38      0.00
P0'2153  1999  SAC III                   0.00   60.00     0.00    0.00      38.36      61.10      0.00
P050911  1999  INTG COASTAL MGT           0.00   4.40       1.30    0.00      3.86       1.72      0.00
P008416  1999  ENTREHAB                   0.00   15.00     0.00    0.00      11.48       4.99      0.00
P064094  1999  ENERGY SECAC               0.00   25.00     0.00    0.00      12.04      12.79      0.00
P0,9929  1998  SIF                         0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00       7.36       5.50      0.00
P055573  1998  CULTURAL HERITAGE    0.00   4.49            0.00    0.00       2.22       1.63      0.00
P050910  1998  MUN DEV                    0.00   20.90     0.00    0.00      14.57      13.56      0.00
P008415  1997  AGRIC DEVT                  0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00       2.30       -0.81     0.00
P008414  1996  HEALTH                     0.00   14.00     0.00    0.00       6.42       7.43      0.00
Total:    0.00   258.59    5.08    0.00    173.58     113.55      0.00
- 92 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY           Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Approval
1999    ThilComBank          3.00   0.00      0.00     0.00     1.01    0.00     0.00     0.00
2000    Telasi              30.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1999    ninotsminda          0.00   0.00      6.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00
2000    Bank of Georgia      3.00   0.00      0.00     0.00     0.69    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997/00    Georgia G&MW Co.   0.00   0.18       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.18     0.00      0.00
1999    Georgia M-F Bank     0.00   0.48      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.48      0.00     0.00
1998    Ksani                6.32   2.50      0.00     0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00     0.00
1998    TBC Bank             2.38   0.86      0.00     0.00    2.38    0.86      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:    44.70   4.02     6.00      0.00    14.08    4.02    0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company              Loan         Equity         Quasi    |   Partic
1997     GGMW                           0.00         0.00         0.00           0.00
Total Pending C'ommitment:    0.00         0.00         0.00            0.00
- 93 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central     Low-
Georgia      Asla  income       Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      55        475     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    620     2,150       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      3.4      1,022      988                       T
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (%)                                        0.0 0      1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                      0.0       0.6       2.3     GNP                              Gross
perptmr
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-991                             capita                       I p enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverfy tine)  I I
Urban population (% of total population)               60        67        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        69        60
Infant mortality (peor tO1Olive bitths)                15        22        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              -         8        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)                ..        64
Iliteracy (% of population age 15+)                               3        39
Gross primary enroHlment (% of tschool-age population)  88      100        96            -Georgia
Male                                                 89       101       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               88        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999           -..                     ....
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS billions)                            ..       ..        3.5      2.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  .     28.0       17.2     1.8                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP              --    42.4      20.9      27.0
Gross domestic savings/GOP                    ..    25.3        -3.6     -2.2
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..      ..        5.9      8.8                       T
Current account balanceGDP                     ..      ..    -11.3       .80      Domestic      .
Interest payments/GDP                         ..        .        1.1      1.2     Dmt                          Investment
Total debtGDP                                  ..       .       48.5     63.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                     *                7.2      11.9
Present value of debt/GOP                      ..      ..      36.9      49.2
Present value of debt/exports                                  1 ' 99.7    194.8
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.9    -17.2      2.9       3.3       4.8             -Georgia
GNP per capita                      1.1    -15.9      2.2       4.1       4.8                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..      9.9      3.5      -1.5       8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)                                                                         0
Agriculture                                   ..    23.3       35.6      36.0
Industry                                       .     38.7       13.0     12.9      0
Manufacturing                               ..      27.1       7.6       7.6    .505
Services                                      ..    38 0       51.5      51.1
Private consumption                           ..    62.6       90.2      89.8    950                      97   98   99
General government consumption                ..    121         13.4     12.4                    GDI      8   GDP
Imports of goods and services                  .    45.1       41.6      46.0
197949  1989-99       1998     1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    -      3.0       -8.0      3.0    so T
Industry                                      ..      5.1      -2.0       2.0    40
Manufacturing                                 .      3.3      -1.0       3.0
Services                                       ..    19.0       16.5      1.7    20
Private consumption                           ..      6.8       9.1      -5.2      o
General govemment consumption                  .     17.3       6.2    -11.4             94         9s   97   98
Gross domestic investment                      .     18 9       15.5    -14.4   -20
Imports of goods and services                  .     12.1      12.2    -12.7             -     Exports   -tmIrports
Gross national product                       1.9    -15 9        2.4      4.2
Note 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             20,000
Consumer prices                                  ..        4.        3.6      19.1     1500'
Implicit GDP deflator                           2.8       5.4        4.5       9.4    lo -o
Government finance                                                                     s.ooo 
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        o
Current revenue                                   .      29.1       16.2      15.9               94  9s   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                            ..    29.1        -4.4      -5.1               -G DP deflator   *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    29.1         -6.4      -6.9
TRADE
(US$ mitlions)                                 1979     1989       1998      1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   6,716         478       477      1,200
Black metal                                     ..       ..         39        33
Tea                                             ..       ..         43        39       900
Manufactures                                    ..        .        222       249
Total imports (cif)                                     7,150      1,164     1,013
Food                                            ..   1,685         325       281       300
Fuel and energy                                 ..     481        205        187
Capital goods                                   ..   1,710         231       187 o
Export price index (1995=100)                     .        ..        90        93             9     4 9       6 9        o 9
Import price index (1995=100)                     .         .        95        95                   3 Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  ..        94         97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1979     1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                              ..       720       739   oll
Imports of goods and services                              ..      1,437     1,260
Resource balance                                           ..       -717     -521
Net income                                                  .       117        119
Net current transfers                                      ..  211  182                     llip                    u        '
Current account balance                                    --      -389       -220     -12
Financing items (net)                                      ..       298       209
Changes in net reserves                           ..       ..        91        11      -,8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..                 119       133
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 ..        ..        1.4       2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                       ..      1,674     1,747
IBRD                                            .                   0         0                       F 17
IDA                                                      ..       274       346                                  B:346
Total debt service                                                   66        113
IBRD                                           ..0                            0
IDA                                                                 2         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    54        68     |                       -         c: 322
Official creditors                                                 96        71
Private creditors                                                   0        17 7                 -
Foreign direct investment                                          50        62
Portfolio equity                                .                   0         0                                 D 56
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        27       115      A-IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                            .         53        79      B- IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                ..        53        79
Interest payments                                        ..         2         3
Net transfers                                                      51        76
Development Economics
- 95 -



Annex 11: Education Indicators
Table 1 Summarv Sector Indicators
Public education expenditure             % of total govt. exp.       16.4         6.7          10.2
Public education expenditure             % of GDP                     5.0         0.8           1.5
Real public resources for education      Index, 1990=100               31         2.2           7.7
Education level of adult pop.            % of age 15+ pop.
Primary or less                                                                            7.1
Unfinished secondary                                                                      12.4
Secondary                                                                                40.0
Special non-higher                                                                        19.4
Higher                                                                                   21.1
Illiteracy                                                                                   Negl.
Enrollments:                             No. of students ('OOOs)    91/92       95/96        97/98
Preschool:                                                            136          79           81
Grades 1-4                                                       338         285          297
Grades 5-9                                                       368         340          347
Grades 10-11                                                     105          69           70
Tertiary (public)                                                104          90           87
Gross Enrollment Ratios*                 % of relevant population
Preschool (age 2-5)                                               45                       20
Basic educ (age 6-14)                                            >90         >90          >90
Second/techlvoc. (age 15-16)                                     >90          74           80
Tertiary                                                          24
Repeater ratio, grades 1 -11             % of pupils repeating yr.                0.5           0.4
Pupil/teacher ratios (grades 1-I1)       No. of pupils per teacher
Urban schools                       (including full- and part-                            12.5
Rural schools                       time teachers)                                         8.7
Average class size (grades 1-11)         No. of pupils per class
Urban schools                                                                            25.3
Rural schools                                                                             14.1
School space per pupil (grade 1-11)      Sq. m. per pupil
Urban schools                                                                              9.4
Rural schools                                                                              8.7
Pupils per classroom (grade 1-1 1)       No. of pupils per
Urban schools                       classroom                                              18
Rural schools                                                                              12
*Accurate ratios cannot be calculated because of inadequate demographic statistics.
- 96 -



Table 2 Evolution of Enrollment in Public Education 'OOOs)
Level of Education
Kindergarten                        200         136          80          83
Schools (Grades I to 11)            834         741         709         709        715
Technicums                           43          34          30          27         30
Vocational Schools                   60          33          15          19         19
Higher Education                     104         91          93          86         87
Total       1241        1035        927         924
Level of Education
Kindergarten                                     94          42          63         20
Schools (Grades I to 11)                        447         365         379        331
Technicums                                                               30          2
Vocational
Higher                                          103                      87
Total                    644        407         559        353
Table 3 Evolution of Enrollments in Schools b  Grade
Total       Urban         Rural         Total         Urban         Rural
=_ 1      83,530       44,411       39,119         78,000       41,000         37,000
2            84,814      45,828        38,986         79,000       42,000        37,000
3            85,902      47,135        38,767         70,000       37,000        33,000
4            83,404      45,419        37,985         70,000       37,000        33,000
1 to 4     337,650      182,793       154,857        297,000      157,000       140,000
5            80,900      45,246        35,654         72,000       39,000        33,000
6            78,736      44,012        34,724         71,000       38,000        33,000
7            72,333      39,892        32,441         69,000       37,000        32,000
8            64,571      35,012        29,559         68,000       37,000        31,000
9            71978       40,824        31,154         67,000       36,000        31,000
5 to 9     368,517      204,986       163,531        347,000      187,000       160,000
10          49,770       28,306        21,464         37,000       20,000        17,000
11          55,530       30,595        24,935         33,000       18,000        15,000
10 to 11    105,300      58,901        46,399         70,000       38,000        32,000
Total      811,467      446,680       3647,87        714,000      382,000       332,000
- 97 -



Table 4 Number and Characteristics of Small Schools 51 u ils
Primary    Inc. sec.* |C. sec.*|
I Abkhazia                        7         0       1    0      1      178         7.4
|Adjara                        148    l    4         1 1   1        2,913         6.2
|Guria                          44    1    t             1           1 I,017      6.0
ImeretiA                     102         ? 23          2           2,991         5.3
Khakheti                       42          5            2           11,007       4.3
Kvemo Kartli                   58         13            5           1,842        4.9
Mtskheta-Mtianeti              93        17             1          1,773         5.5
Ratci-a-Lechkhumi & KS        42         28            4            1,340        3.0
Samegrelo                      98         10            3          2,185         5.9
Samtskhe-Javkheti              49      1 3              6           1,485        4.5
Shida Kartli                  55          3            3           1,224         6.7
Total schools <51 pupils     738        119           38      l   17,955         5.2
Total second. <51 pupils                  119           38           5,317         3.2
'Total all schools         j   757        781         1637         714,638        10.4
* Incomplete secondary= grades 1-9. complete secondary  grades I-I1
Source: Derived from MoE Situ Main Center of Informatics, database of school
Table 5 Number of upils in private schools by grade, 1997
l        l            1~~ 139                 1 l,832
|   2        l       116             1,500
3                    77                939
4                     67               699
l  5   1  58             671
6                    55                667
7                     54               658
8                    51                560
9                    51                541
10                    89              1,211
___ 11___ _ I    _              74                993
_____Total Gl-ll __            831        P    10,271
High reduc. '95/969L               _    |    89,657
- 98 -



Table 6 Teachin Staff in Public General Education by Sex and Level of Education
Total number        92.49    39.78      52.71  79.69      35.60      44.09 i69.21 |30.95           38.26
teacher_
Women as % of        73.6     81.8       67.3   78.8       85.0        73.8    80.6      87.3       75.2
total
% with higher        84.0     90.5       79.2   84.1       91.0        79.5    85.6      92.8       79.7
education
% with                5.0      2.9        6.6    5.6        3.4         7.4     4.6       2.3         6.4
incomplete
higher education          _                  _
% with vocation       9.9      6.3       12.7    8.4        4.9        11.2     7.9       4.3        10.9
education
% with general        1.0      0.3        1.5    1.9        0.7         2.9      1.9      0.6         3.0
education
Table 7 Evolution of public education ex enditure (Unit: Laris million
Education Expenditure of Central Government   9.8        24.2        38.2          45.5
Total Expenditure of Central Government     335.8       558.9       680.8        938.0
% Education                                   2.9         4.3         5.6           4.9
Education Expenditure of Rayon Authorities   19.0        47.4        63.0          87.8
Total Expenditure of Rayon Authorities       91.3        159.4      223.7         239.0
% Education                                  20.8        29.7        28.2          36.7
Total Public Education Expenditure           28.8        71.6       101.2         133.3
Total Public Expenditure                    427.1       719.9       985.0        1177.0
% Education in Total Public                   6.7         9.9        10.2         11.3
Expenditure
Data on this table are actual clata for 1995 and 1996. For 1997, one has actual data for the ten
first months, and an extrapolation for the two last months. 1998 data are forecast.
Table 8 Public education expenditure within the GDP (Unit: Laris million)
Total Public Education Expenditure                        71.6     101.2       133.3
GDP                                          3694.1    5724.1    6800.0       7756.0
% Education public exp. in GDP                  0.8        1.3       1.5         1.7
99 -



Annex 12: Summary of Institutional Analysis
An institutional analysis identified several issues that will have implications for project design
and management: duplication in roles and responsibilities among different levels, lack of clarity
regarding responsibilities, lack of tools for accountability, and lack of capacity to manage, all
those in a changing environment undertaking decentralization reforrms. As a result of the
decentralization process, the current governance of the education system is suffering from lack of
clarity.  The existing legal and regulatory framework is perceived   as too rigid, often
contradictory and overall not sufficient to support the implementation of an education sector
reform. The system seems to be overburdened with too many "bureaucratic" layers that have
blurred boundaries of responsibility and accountability. In some cases responsibilities are
duplicated (e.g. Ministry and Regional Education Department; Regional Education Departments
and Rayon Education Divisions) and in other cases some areas seem to be "no man's land." As
for accountability, no one (personally or institutionally) recognizes it. There is lack of effective
coordination, both vertically throughout the hierarchy of the education system, and horizontally
between the education sector and other sectors, as well as among the different stakeholders
within the education sector. There is lack of administrative and financial management capacity at
almost all levels including the Center, which creates considerable risk in terms of proper planing
for education reform and later on its implementation. There are gaps between policy making and
policy implementation, between Center and Rayons. There is no effective mechanism to assess
feasibility of strategies developed at the upper level and receive feedback from the bottom. The
above point links up with issues regarding communication. Currently, neither effective
information dissemination concerning the rationale, objectives, benefits and implementation
process of reform measures nor consultation with the public and professionals to build consensus
for implementation take place. Rather there is an attempt to achieve most of the required reforns
through central dictate. It is also recognized that availability of data to inform decision making
at each level is limited, not necessarily timely or reliable. There is a major problem of
duplication of efforts in data collection, mainly for the data collected at the school level. While a
statistical survey is supposed to collect and share this data, parallel surveys (mainly originating
form special units within the MOE carrying on tasks like a school mapping exercise and
assessment of school buildings and facilities) tend to overload the school management with
many filling-in of the same data, and so increase the risk of unreliability.
The responsibilities of each level are described below:
Central level the Ministry of Education, the Education Committee of the Parliament, President,
and line ministries. (i) the Parliament is supposed to determine the main direction of the state
education policy and ensure that adequate funds are allocated when approving the annual budget
law (Article 16); (ii) the President appoints the Minister of Education as well as approves the
appointment of all public universities chancellors; he also approves establishment or shutting
down of higher education facility; and confirms annual state orders for tertiary education
institutions (Article 17); (iii) the line ministries take part in developing education programs and
standards. Also, the Ministry of Economy, (together with the MOE), develops state orders for
tertiary education and is supposed to develop financial norms for education facilities, and the
MOE defines distribution of state orders among higher education institutions; (iv) the Ministry of
Finance has a rather important role in terms of education budget implementation; (v) there is a
large number of tertiary education institutions under the direct subordination of line ministries
(e.g. Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Culture, and Finance).
- 100-



The Ministry of Education is clearly the key ministry. It drafts education programs (curricula).
Together with the relevant line ministries, Patriarchy of Georgia and Academy of Science of
Georgia (Article 18. 2), it develops and approves standards. It is also responsible for approving
textbooks, introducing timetables, appointing school principals, defining school fees for grades
10 and 11, determining the school calendar, licensing higher education facilities and those
offering professional military education programs; carrying out required attestation of education
institutions, teachers and students as well as accreditation of higher education institutions.
Accreditation is voluntary but required to give a State recognized diploma.
Regional level there are six (out of 12) Regional Education Departments already functioning:
Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Samyskhe-Javakheti, Guria, Imereti, and Racha-Lechkhum.
These Departments are supposed to actually support and supervise implementation of state
education policy throughout their respective regions. They do not manage budgets but are
responsible for controlling that adequate funds are allocated in local budgets for the education
sector. They also play a distinct  role in appointing/terminating principals of education
institutions (except higher) as well as heads of Rayon Education Divisions. the only budgets
they have is for salaries for their own staff and occasionally, for some special programs that they
might manage like language programs.
District level there are District (Rayon) Education Divisions. Such Divisions are part of the
administrative structure of the executive branch of local government (Gamgeoba, whose
members are appointed) and is subordinate to the Regional Education Department. This division
does not manage local education budgets, nor does it pay teachers. These are responsibilities of
the Financial Division within the districtl(Rayon) administrative structure. District Education
Divisions are mostly involved in pedagogy aspects such as syllabi development, training issues,
updating teachers and principals on education programs/standards, methodology and providing
pedagogical support to teachers.
School level management is carried out by principals and deputy principals in collaboration (at
least on paper) with Teachers' Council. All teachers on staff automatically become members of
such Council. Even though the Law furnishes Teachers' Councils with certain rights, in practice
the majority of Councils are extremely inert and do not make use of these provisions. Schools
can be supported by a Board of Trustees the main role of which is to raise funds for the school
and monitor the school budget. School principals are responsible for hiring and firing staff and
managing the extra resources collected, prepare timetables, and deterrnine school extra-curricular
activities. Teachers are free to choose textbooks and teaching methodology.
In addition to the levels listed above, a new level came into the picture with the November 1998
elections of Sakrebulos (local councils). Sakrebulos represent the lowest level of Georgian
government (thus their role could not be administrative). They do indeed represent interests of
their respective communities, including education related ones. One important area of Sakrebulo
involvement is budget preparation. Therefore, they will have a say on education allocations in
annual budgets of respective villages/small towns. Besides, Sakrebulos can form ad hoc sector
specific committees (e.g. health, education, etc.) if need for having such committee is identified.
The committees are thus far uncertain about their functions and responsibilities. Currently they
mostly serve as an entry point for people to come in with different complaints. The committees
try to convey these complaints upwards in the hierarchy and seek for solutions.
- 101 -



Annex 13: Summary of Social Assessment Findings
1.  In the 31 schools from 11 districts (one per region) studied for this study, five main issues
and some sub-issues presented themselves. They included: (a) insufficient funding of schools,
causing existence of schools that were not suited for learning because they were falling apart,
were cold and did not have proper facilities and materials; (b) unclear and ambiguous division of
roles and limited decision-making ability at the local level: (c) deterioration of the quality of
education due of the lack of funding, low and non-payment of teachers' salaries, and near
collapse of in-service training; (d) limited flow of information, horizontally and vertically; (e)
increasing inequities and decreasing access among the poor and those living in rural areas to
quality education as well as higher education.
Decentralization and Funding
2.   Both capital and current expenditures, including teachers salaries, have been transferred to
the local level. Although there are some transfers from the Central Budget to cover at least
teachers' salaries, but the amount is not enough to respond to the needs. This at the time of
budget cuts because of the fiscal problems facing the country as a whole and low ability of local
governments to raise revenue has caused real hardships for the education sector. In addition,
there is low capacity at the local and sub-national level to perform the responsibilities which,
until recently, were undertaken by the central Government. Limited decision-making at the local
and school level, and lack of clarity on some of the laws regarding the new roles and
responsibilities as well as property rights create some additional problems within schools on
issues such as school fund raising ability, school schedule, hiring and firing of teachers, etc. The
present institutional framework lacks consultative mechanisms and transparent processes for
decision-making in the sector.
Condition of schools and school material
3.    Most schools in the study area outside Tbilisi, at best needed repair and lacked many
facilities and at worse were at the state of deterioration because of no or low maintenance,
conflict and earthquake. These schools were not conducive to learning, students' safety, and
health. Classrooms were cold and lacked the minimum facilities such as libraries or functioning
gyms. In many village schools, there was no electricity and desks and chairs were broken and
uncomfortable. In some villages, school yards were not safe and clean for children to play since
there was no fence to keep the animals away.
4.    In most schools visited, there was inadequate supply of teaching materials, and not all
students had the whole set of textbooks. They also changed frequently; this, as a result of the
poverty of some parents who bought second hand textbooks from the flea market and the lack of
information on which textbooks to buy, caused the use of multiple textbooks in a same
classroom. Textbooks also were changed with little inputs from teachers, adding to the problem
Schools and Parents
5    Parents contributed in cash or in kind to assist the running of the schools. Their main
participation was for heating of classrooms, minor repairs and buying some school and teaching
materials. This contribution, though, was not nearly sufficient to answer the growing needs of
- 102 -



the schools. The largest out of pocket amount paid by parents, though, was for tutoring. Parent's
involvement in decision-making was rather limited. However, parents who contributed more or
on a regular basis, had some influence in what the money collected should be used for or which
class their children should sit, always related to the teacher teaching in that class.
Quality of Teaching
6.   Most teachers were committed to their profession. However, non-payment of salaries,
poor condition, inadequate facilities and lack of regular training were threatening the quality of
teaching and the teaching staff. Quality of teaching was also threatened by lack of training of
teachers. All these encourage those who can, to complement their income by tutoring or leave
the profession for better pay ones. These factors raise the questions of the quality of teaching,
equity and conflict of interest since in some cases teachers teach their own students.
Equity and Access
7.   In terms of equity and access, rural schools are worse off than urban schools in terms of
facilities and quality of teaching. This results in a situation when children belonging to better off
families and living in urban areas having a better access to quality education as well as higher
education. Schools in rural areas are in worse situation with respect to school building, school
materials, facilities, qualified teachers and parents involvement. Minority schools in rural areas
have difficulty finding qualified teachers for Georgian language, causing students from such
schools to be less competent to compete with Georgian speaking students for entering higher
educational institutes. Moreover, poor students and those living in remote rural areas have more
difficulties in terms of having all their textbooks and school materials and access to tutors if
needed which seems to be the gateway to higher education. The study indicates that students
who can afford to hire tutors at the last two years of the schools paying high rates, mostly in the
central towns or big cites, are almost guaranteed to enter a prestigious faculties within well
known higher educational institutes.
8.    The equity is a real issue in the sphere of education in the new socio-economic
environment where the resources are scarce. The inequalities in education seem to be widening
at the time education is one of the most important factors regarding future life chances, when
opportunities are based on competition and skills.  Not considering this can result in
marginalization of a group of the population and create a culture of poverty. Equally important,
is the fact that education is the main tool to build civil society in which democratic values,
participation and tolerance are its main pillars.
Gender
9.   The study did not find a real gender gap in access to quality education. In the schools
visited, there was no difference between the number of boys and girls in higher grades. The type
of gender difference which was detected by this study was related to the education and economic
situation of parents. Among more educated and better off parents, both male and female children
would receive tutoring. In poor rural areas, parents used the labor of their sons and daughters.
However, the expectation of parents for the future of their children in rural areas varied slightly
according to the gender roles. With respect to dropouts, teachers in Azeri schools raised the
- 103 -



concern that girls were taken out of schools earlier to be married. In rural areas, among those
who could not afford to continue their education, mostly male students expressed hope that their
male relatives who left their villages in search of work will help them to continue their
education.
- 104-



Annex 14: Letter of Development Policy
Date: 02/08/2001
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Georgia Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program
Letter of Development Policy for Education Reform
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
The purpose of this Letter is to provide a description of the current situation in the education
system of Georgia in the context of the society and the state, and define the main directions and
necessary tools for the realignment and strengthening of the system.
In order to secure realignment and strengthening of its education system, Georgia has applied to
the World Bank for the necessary financial and technical assistance through a credit from the
International Development Association in the form of an Adaptable Program Credit for the
sector. An initial commitmient of US$60 million and a first phase of about US$26 million are
requested to support implementation of this initiative.
Georgia lies in the region of the South Caucasus, and is home to a population of five million
people. The Georgian language -- the country's national language -- is unique in that being one
of the oldest living languages in the world, it does not belong to any known language family (e.g.
Indo-European, Semitic, Turkic, etc.). The Georgian alphabet is unique too: it was created
specifically for the Georgian language and is different from all other known alphabets in the
world (e.g. Greek, Latin, Cyrillic, etc.). The written tradition in the Georgian language dates
from the 5th century AD. In the 1 th-12th c.c. AD Georgia saw the emergence of academies --
pre-university centers of learning that were typical of the Christian world in the Middle Ages.
The education system in Georgia is presently living under daunting and, in fact, critical situation.
The scope of knowledge that is currently provided by the country's education system not only
falls short of the present-day requirements as refers the quality of education, but has significantly
deteriorated from what it used to be in the Soviet period. This is a well-established fact calling
for radical measures to be taken in order to mitigate and, subsequently, to improve the current
situation. In order to attain realignment and strengthening of the education system in Georgia, it
is essential to carry out an objective assessment and analysis of the existing situation.
It is widely believed that any significant improvement in the education sector is hampered and
impeded by the following two factors: firstly, by the economic crisis that affects all segments of
the country's life and secondly, by the current education system that follows the Soviet-time
model.
1.   The socio-economic crisis, underway in the country for the past ten years, has
directly and severely affected the education sector. The state budget for the sector in 1996 was
only 5% of what it had been in 1989 (i.e. in the Soviet period). The share of education within
- 105 -



GDP in 1991 stood at 8.2%; in 1992 it dropped to 5.0%; in 1996 -- to 1.3%; in l997 it was 1.5%;
in 1998 -- 1.4%, and remained at 1.4% in 1999.
It is to be noted that average spending for general secondary education institutions in
Georgia only accounts for 48-50% of the total budget for the education sector, whereas in the
world's advanced countries the corresponding figure amounts to 60-70%.
2.   The dire situation in Georgia education system is considerably due to a legacy of the
Soviet past.
After its independence, Georgia inherited an education system that was largely a part of the
Soviet system of education. As such, it was characterized by a totalitarian management leverage,
extreme centralization, overwhelming predominance of ideology, uniform curricula,
monovariant educational institutions leaving no room for alternatives, highly subjective and
inadequate assessment system, lack of efficiency and transparency in the use of physical,
financial and human resources. Public participation in the education sector was limited and
pnvate sector non-existent.
However, one should not overlook the fact that within the past ten years after Georgia regained
its independence, it has seen an emergence of a new system based, to a certain extent, on the
Soviet system of education, and evolving against the backdrop of economic hardships in the
country. This new system envisions a certain part to be played by a private sector. In its
evolution, the system has been influenced by all those political, social and ideological shocks
that were experienced by the country at large and by its society over the said period of time.
Within the same span of time the state has undertaken a number of important steps to improve
the system.
Article 35 of the new Constitution of Georgia adopted in 1995, defines the main directions for
the operation of the country's education system. In the same 1995, the Government of Georgia
endorsed a document known as the "State Program and Implementation Plan for Reforming the
System of Education". In 1997 the Parliament of Georgia approved and adopted the new
Education Law, and the Law on Child Adoption. Later, in 1999 the Law on Foster Care was
adopted. In 1998, the Parliament passed the Law on Primary Vocational Education.
Within the framework of legislative amendments envisioned by these legal acts, the Ministry of
Education of Georgia developed and adopted a number of resolutions with a view to improving
the quality and effectiveness of the education system, stimulating involvement of the private
sector, and increasing public participation in the education sector. To this end, a special
Accreditation Commission for High Educational Institutes was established under the President of
Georgia, headed by the Minister of Education.
Despite these measures, there has been no significant improvement in the quality of education,
and the system continued moving on its own, influenced mainly by the above-mentioned shocks.
All this has led us to an education system where the state and the private sectors are in a sense
uniform in that, with rare exceptions, neither of them can effectively serve education. Indeed, the
education system is not in a position to provide students with equal opportunities for learning.
Due to a prevalence of outdated standards and methods, lack of adequately retrained and
qualified teachers, scarcity of schools' logistics and other factors, most students receive
- 106-



extremely low-quality education, which makes them largely non-competitive in the international
labor market. Civics education is virtually non-existent. Meanwhile, the system per se and its
bureaucracy are mostly concerned with how to retain their positions under new circumstances.
One of the most disturbing implications of the system fueling corruption, nihilism and
conformism at practically all levels is that it, intentionally or unintentionally, inculcates the same
sort of attitudes in the young people's minds.
Despite this extremely complicated situation, the state and the people of Georgia are deternined
and striving to make it a genuinely democratic and developed country, with an open civil society.
One of the most important tasks to attain this goal and the one calling for immediate action is the
reform of the education system.
It is an irrefutable fact that this drive has a sound backing and good prospect to be materialized,
since, on the one hand, the country has a long-standing tradition of giving value to education,
and on the other hand, expectations people have for a better future are connected with education
in the first place.
Reform of the education system implies education system realignment and strengthening.
The goal of a new education system is to be seen in bringing up a free and independent person -
a fully-fledged member of the society having a high-quality education and an ability to
adequately perform in a changing environment.
Realignment primarily implies replacement of an existing system with an up-to-date efficient and
effective system of education giving students such knowledge and training that would enable
them to adequately meet the challenges of the civilized world and effectively participate in its
life, in line with their individual interests and capabilities.
In addition to realignment, the reform of the education system also envisions its strengthening,
which means that the new education system, from its very inception and throughout the process
of its establishment, should effectively manage its resources and be sustainable, which is
essential in order to prevent any adaptation to the attitudes and mentality that at present dominate
the state, the society and the education system. The new education system should become a pillar
both for the society and the state, and provide a frame of reference in their development.
The reform of the education system implies transformation of the objectives pursued by the
system's components (primary/basic and general school, vocational and higher education), as
well as the tools to attain these objectives.
Outdated and irrelevant standards of school education, an outdated system of teachers'
professional development, textbooks exclusively oriented towards transfer of information,
inadequate mechanisms of school financing, subjective system of assessment, centralized and
cumbersome system of management, non-existence of state standards for higher and vocational
education professions, negative vestiges of the Soviet past, such as the state order and entrance
examinations, lack of consideration to the labor market in higher and vocational education
policies, inadequacy of teachers' training institutions are the factors that call for radical changes
in the education system on the whole.
- 107 -



The reform of the education system in the country will begin with the realignment of the primary
and general secondary education system. Our choice is not only governed by the fact that basic
school education is a core element of continuous education system, but also by a belief that basic
school has a key and central part to play in upbringing the country's citizen. The main goal of
our country today is to build a civil society whose members will be taking an active part in
democratic state building and govemance.
Primary, basic and general secondary education system realignment and strengthening planning
and implementation activities will simultaneously be accomplished along the following main
directions:
1.   Development of outcome-based national curriculum programs. These curriculum
programs will ensure value-, knowledge- and skill-oriented teaching that will enable students to
acquire knowledge and skills adequate to the present-day demands and requirements.
2.   Development of a new objective and reliable assessment system. The system will
enable assessment of students' performance, i.e. their knowledge and skills within the defined
curriculum programs. The main objective of the assessment system is to assess individual
achievements of each student during the learning process, encourage differentiated teaching
approaches and define students' individual progress.
3.   Development of new textbooks and learning materials in accordance with national
curriculum programs. These textbooks should contain information defined in the curriculum
programs, facilitate acquisition of skills and match new teaching methods. Development of a
sustainable and affordable system of textbook supply.
4.   Establishment of a flexible and sustainable professional development system for
education professionals, that will ensure the upgrading of professional qualifications of
educational staff and facilitate acquisition by students of such values, knowledge and skills that
match the requirements of the national curriculum programs.
5.   Optimization of existing physical, financial and human resources; deconcentration of
the education system.
6.   Development of a reliable and effective Education Management Information System
based on modem technologies and taking account of the new structure of the education system.
The goal of the Education Management Information System is to incorporate structural entities at
all levels of the education system into a single information space.
National curriculum programs, the new assessment system, new textbooks and teaching methods
should instill and develop in students ability for critical thinking and independent problem-
solving skills, which is to be seen as one of the primary goals of the learning process.
The restructuring and deconcentration of the education system, establishment of s new
management information system should provide for all students equal opportunities (and access)
for the acquisition of knowledge and skills matching the present-day requirements.
- 108 -



These major changes in the contents of education should be accompanied with other, equally
important changes, namely:
1.   Provision of necessary incentives for school principals and teachers, as well as
parents in order for schools to develop their own programs of study taking account of local
specificities and needs.
2.   Enhancing schools autonomy and self-governance, establishing boards of parents'
and public representatives, to be involved in the learning process and management of the system.
3.   Special emphasis should be placed on civics and environmental education not only
for students, but for those segments of the public that are involved in the school life in one form
or the other.
4.   Education professionals (teachers, principals and others) should be involved in the
reforming process as its stakeholders and co-authors.
5.   Virtually the whole of the country's population should get involved in the process of
reforming through mass media coverage, regular meetings, discussions, etc.
The situation existing in the country, and in the education sector, in particular, brings up a
question of strategic importance. Is it practicable, and if so, to what extent is it realistic, to expect
any radical and far-reaching reform in the education system to take place? In order for the reform
to materialize, it is essential to ensure that:
1.   The reform is cohesive in character, i.e. based on a clearly defined and well-
substantiated comprehensive plan that envisions unified policies and unified management.
2.   The plan of reform  should incorporate and develop the necessary safeguards,
namely:
a)  Introducing relevant amendments and additions in the Education Law;
b)   Effecting radical change in the management, which first and foremost implies
consistent deconcentration of management.
3.   It is necessary to foster changed attitudes on the part of the public towards education.
The public should view the system of education and the reform going on in the sector as an area
of its vital interest, and undertake the burden of responsibility to have the reform realized.
Georgia Education System Realignment and Strengthening Program will be implemented by the
Ministry of Education. In coordinating cost-effective implementation of the project, the latter
will be assisted by the Program Coordination Center that has been established as a legal person
under public law on the basis of the Presidential Decree.
Phase 1 of the APC will begin the development of the required tools and interventions to assist in
the system's realignment and strengthening. Initiatives will be gradually introduced in a set of
schools spread nationwide, on order to draw lessons before expansion to the whole system in
subsequent phases.
- 109 -



In the course of the reform, the Ministry of Education will give special attention to the results of
monitoring and social evaluation, which will enable it to timely and adequately respond to the
problems that may exist or emerge in the field. Monitoring will focus on four groups of
indicators, namely: inputs, process, outcomes and impact. The project envisions special surveys
and assessments to be carried out along all project directions.
Monitoring results will be evaluated by the relevant agencies and departments of the Ministry of
Education, and by project consultants. The Ministry of Education will be assisted by the Project
Coordination Center. Joint assessments will periodically be carried out by the Ministry of
Education in conjunction with the World Bank.
In order to move on to Phase 2 of the APC, triggers will be agreed during Negotiations.
We believe that the objectives and the tools outlined in this Letter match the chosen direction of
the education system reform.
We stand ready to provide any requisite additional information.
I would like to take this opportunity to renew to you assurances of our highest esteem.
Respectfully,
Giorgi Arsenishvili
State Minister of Georgia
- 110-



MAP SECTION






4O9                           4;                           4`2                           4!0                           44                            45                           460
GEORGIA
+, R U S S                                                                                                                                                                       I A N F E D E R AT I O  N   BUILT-UP URBAN AREA
RUSSIAN  FEDERATIONa SECTDITS
D     AUTONOMOUS REPUBUIC CENTERS
     NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
CC)  J;  3GLACIER AREAS
-                                                                                                          -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~N ROADS
--_--'~-  RAILROADS                            43'
- - - -  AUTONOMOUS REPUBUC BOUNDARIES
/ s , ri ! s - rnhht '- + -'- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
eac
-~ L. SS 421                                                              B-
430 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k.i'42'
0    15   30   45   60   75KIJLOMETERS           xdbfr9odo
4    sr                                                                                                                                   7,  -Jl '  T U RE Yi- C k .
UKRAJNE                          KA/                                                                              hIAKoSTANcI-Sor
RUSSIAN                                                                                             Il
FEDERATION
-41.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ArDoMap                               ThiO o-p  cop,ood by khe Mop Dociqo Unit .f The Wcdd o-k_
iv         TURKEY           j   V ro  .M.      . 2           T-ok eeon thi* P c#po,el,eo otdOr Tchyofe r5.fBoray                                  ARMENIA                                v         AZERBAIJAN
X                                         G-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cp, .cypdg-f-c c. kelgo tole f.oc f.orn-ioy, oo.                                                              v-        AZ RAIANc
< - r  4~t,                          eedo-e -ent or  - Vtepbnce  of  -c h bkondories. 
_toNpioO REP  IRAQ   ISLAMIC REP OF IRAN                    4P2                             43                             44                             45-                              46                       _



