Page  1
December
9, 1998
His Excellency
David Onoprishvili
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze St.
380062
Tbilisi
Georgia
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for the Education Project
Grant No. TF 025587
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(the
Association) to indicate the Association
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred
seventy-seven thousand six hundred fifty
(US$377,650) (the Grant) to Georgia (the 
Recipient). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you,
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Judy O’Connor
Country Director for Armenia and Georgia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
GEORGIA
By
/s/
David Onoprishvili
Minister of Finance of Georgia
Date: December 30, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant is to design the Education Project that would improve 
the quality, effectiveness and efficiency in the delivery of general education
services in Georgia
(the Project). The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant 
is given are as follows:
(a)
Strengthening the Institutional, Financial and Management Capacity of the 
Education System
(i)
design of alternative financing mechanisms; and
Page  2
(ii)
assessment of available current education statistics and systems 
and to determine further needs to develop an effective management
information and monitoring system.
(b)
Improving Quality in the Delivery of Services
(i)
assist in the assessment of current infrastructure, equipment, 
education materials, textbooks and teacher training needs and to
identify priorities and design strategies for implementation;
(ii)
assist the Recipient in conducting a series of workshops to be 
attended by key stakeholders such as teachers, parents, NGOs, and
national and local government officials in order to define
priorities and increase participation, ownership and dissemination
of information regarding the reform; and
(iii)
prepare a study/survey to assess the quality and development of 
the private sector in the provision of education services at the
preschool, general and higher education level.
(c)
Strengthening Project Implementation Capacity in the Ministry of 
Education
(i)
provision of consulting services to support the coordination of 
Project preparation activities and grant administration;
(ii)
training to staff of the Ministry of Education in project 
management, procurement and disbursement; and
(iii)
provision of limited amount of office equipment and related 
supplies.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request;
(d) from 
time to time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and
results of the Activities; and
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
Association to visit the territory of Georgia for purposes related to the Grant. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so
request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the
results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants
’
services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to
replace or repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Page  3
Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' Services
352,650
100%
and Training
(2)
Goods
 25,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%
of local expendi-
tures
(ex-factory
cost), and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items pro-
cured locally
TOTAL
377,650
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, and the
term
"local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Association;
(ii)
on account of payments for any taxes levied
by or in the territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods
produced in or services supplied from such territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import,
to the Association
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or
(v) 
after June
30, 2000 or such later date as the Association shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is
received by the Association within four
(4) months after the Closing Date, after which 
time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be
canceled; and
(b) if, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated 
to any of the items in the table in paragraph
4.2 above will be insufficient to 
finance the expenditures for such item, the Association may, by written notice to the
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another
item which, in the Association’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such
amount in the form specified by the Association. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) 
signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as
he or she shall have authorized in writing; and
(b)
be accompanied by such evidence in
support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request. Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient
in form and substance to satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to
withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the
carrying out of the Activities.
The Association shall pay the amounts withdrawn by
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
The Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another,
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
Page  4
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II
to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six
(6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association
’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right 
of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or
(b)
the right of the
Recipient, or any other entity to which
(the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee 
of Georgia, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Association or any
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have
been suspended.
6.2.
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time 
after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 above; or (b) if the 
Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Association, within
six
(6)
months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of 
this Section I.
Page  5
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants
’
services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for activities under paragraph
1.1
(a)
of the Annex estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single-Source Selection
Services for activities under paragraph
1.1
(b)(ii) and (c)(ii) of the Annex 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for activities under paragraph
1.1
(a),
(b)(i),
(b)(iii) and (c)(i) of 
the Annex shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1
through
5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996
and September
1997
(the 
Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines. The review 
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply to
such contracts, provided that the word
"bids", in such paragraph 4, shall be read as 
"quotations".
Page  6
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested.
On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the
eligible items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
Page  7
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation
.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
