Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3474 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Education System Realignment and Strengthening Credit)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 17, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3474 GE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 2001, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and 
INTER/NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association, has received  a letter dated February 8, 2001 from 
the Borrower describing a program of policies and actions (the Program) designed to 
undertake a system reform of its education sector and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the implementation of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to support the execution of 
the Program through extension to the Borrower of loans up to the equivalent of 
forty-six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,000,000) over a period of twelve (12) 
years; 
(C)
the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Association to assist in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the first 
phase of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
Page  2
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
   Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c)
Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of 
the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance 
by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AWP” means Annual Work Program referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 
of this Agreement; 
(b)
“Education Management Information System” means a system which provides 
reliable and systematic information on inputs processes, outputs, and outcomes of the 
education system to inform decision makers at all levels of the education sector;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), 
and (8) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, goods, and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Lari” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(f)
“MoE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
(g)
“NAEC” means the Borrower’s National Assessment and Examination Center  
established by the Borrower’s MoE as a public legal entity;
(h)
“NAEC Agreement” means the agreement to be concluded between the Borrower 
and NAEC pursuant to the provision of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened by the Borrower, for 
purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the 
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established under Presidential 
Decree No. 547 for purposes of Project management and referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
(k)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association and the plan referred to in paragraph 8 of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Committee” means the Borrowers’ Project Management 
Committee established pursuant to Ministerial Decree No. 632 by the Borrower to 
provide policy guidance and oversight of Project implementation and referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 12, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on the same 
date;
(o)
“Resource Centers” means resource centers to be established within 
selected schools to  assist teaching staff in the carrying out of their duties;
(p)
“School Grant” means the grant for school learning improvement to be made 
in accordance with the requirements and eligibility criteria set forth in the School 
Grants Manual (as defined hereinafter); 
(q)
“School Grants Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 9 of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement which provides for the terms and conditions for the 
awarding of learning improvement grants, the eligibility criteria of the schools that 
may benefit from such grants, and model contracts;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(s)
“Supplemental  Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which sets forth in the monitoring and evaluation 
indicators for the Project and the Program referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 
4 of this Agreement. 
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15, in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2011 and ending October 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2020 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MoE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, educational and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through MoE, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project ; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  6
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MoE, shall cause the PCU to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through MoE  shall cause PCU to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through MoE,  shall cause PCU to carry out a  time-bound 
Page  7
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable 
the Borrower, not later than June 30,  2002, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
(b)
the PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived without 
the prior consent of the Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant of Section 7.01 (h) of the general conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has contracted the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the Borrower has opened in Lari the Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and 
Page  8
conditions satisfactory to the Association and deposited an initial amount of $100,000 
equivalent in counterpart funds, and
(c)
the Borrower provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that NAEC 
has been established.
Section 6.02. The date of ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70 Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212-348-MOFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   870,000
84%
(2)
Goods other than
        6,160,000
100% of foreign 
textbooks
expenditures
and 100% 
(ex-factory cost) of 
local expenditures and 
80% of local
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(3) 
Consultants’
               4,840,000
80%
services
(4)
Training
 2,630,000
100%
(5) 
Textbooks
   200,000
100%
(6) 
School Grants
   645,000
100%
(7) 
Operating costs
 
   840,000
95% until December 31, 2002
of NAEC
80% until December 31, 2003
65% until December 
31, 2004
and 50% for the 
remaining part of 
Project implementation
(8) 
Incremental operating 
   430,000
85%
costs of the PCU
(9) Refunding 
of
   885,000
Amount due pursuant to
Project Preparation
Section 2.02 of this 
Advance
Agreement
(10) Unallocated
 2,400,000
TOTAL  
19,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  10
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with carrying out training activities under the Project, including travel 
costs and per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours, workshops, 
conferences, and non-degree fellowships; rental of facilities and equipment; and 
training materials and related supplies;
(d)
the term “operating costs of NAEC” means expenditures incurred by NAEC on 
account of Project implementation in connection with carrying out the National 
Assessment and Examination System, including: non-governmental staff salaries, 
utilities, communication costs, banking fees, in-country transportation and travel 
costs, minor office equipment and supplies, office security systems,
equipment 
maintenance, advertisement costs, audit fees, printing and dissemination of the 
assessment tests and exams;
(e)
the term “incremental operating costs of the PCU” means expenditures 
incurred by the PCU on account of management of Project implementation in connection 
with carrying out the implementation of the Project including: communication costs, 
banking fees, transportation costs, minor office equipment and supplies, office 
security systems, equipment maintenance, preparation of tender and other 
advertisements, administrative non-governmental PCU staff salaries, in-country travel 
of the non-governmental PCU staff, and audit fees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) expenditures under category (6) until the Borrower has issued the 
School Grant Manual; and (c) expenditures under category (7) until the NAEC Agreement 
has been issued and has entered into force.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $300,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each; and (e) training and 
grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
Page  11
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  12
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Page  13
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program which has the objective 
of improving the quality and relevance of primary and secondary schools learning 
outcomes to better prepare the students to meet the demands of a market economy and a 
participatory society through: (i) developing the policy and institutional framework 
required for an effective realignment of the primary and general secondary system; 
(ii) developing the Borrower’s capacity to meet those new objectives and manage its 
physical, financial and human resources equitably, efficiently and effectively; and 
(iii) supporting project implementation. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Realignment of the Primary and General Secondary System 
1.
(a) Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training for the development 
of a national curriculum and related attainment targets for primary and general 
secondary education; and (b) publication and dissemination of national curriculum to 
teachers and education stakeholders.
2.
(a) Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training to establish NAEC and 
develop its capacity to run a national assessment and examination system; (b) 
publication and dissemination of the results of the assessment; and (c) carrying out 
of minor repairs of NAEC installations and coverage of operating costs of NAEC. 
3.
(a) Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training for the design an 
implementation of training strategies and development of training materials for 
teachers, methodologists and principals; (b) publication and dissemination of these 
training materials; (c) provision of training and of equipment, and carrying out of 
minor rehabilitation works in schools where  Resource Centers are located; and (d) 
provision of school learning improvement grants.
4.
(a) Provision of technical assistance, goods and training to improve textbook 
quality and carrying out on a pilot basis a textbook rental and monitoring system; (b) 
publication and dissemination of guidelines and manuals related to textbook writing 
and textbook competition rules and procedures; (c) provision of sets of selected 
textbooks for rental and supplementary learning materials.
Part B:
Strengthening Capacity for Policy and Management at central and local 
level 
1.
Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training to staff in the education 
sector to develop and implement education policies to improve efficiency and 
transparency in the use of financial, human, and physical resources and quality 
learning.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training for the design and 
implementation of an Educational Management Information System as well as hardware and 
software equipment to install said system; publication and dissemination of annual 
education statistical yearbooks; and carrying out of minor rehabilitation works in 
selected regional and local-level offices where the Educational Management Information 
Page  14
System will be located.
Part C:
Project Management Support
1.
Provision of technical assistance, goods and training for PCU, MoE and their 
staff  for the purposes of Project implementation; financing of the operating costs of 
the PCU; and carrying out of rehabilitation works of MoE's main building (the 
"Education Center").
2.
Provision of technical assistance, goods and training for the design of and 
carrying out of a long-term public awareness campaign on education reform. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section: (a) works estimated to 
cost more than $300,000 equivalent per contract, and (b) goods estimated to cost more 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works  and goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods such as information 
technology-related and other office equipment, printing and dissemination costs, 
vehicles, office furniture, educational literature an supplemental learning materials 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; 
and
(b)
Goods such as publication, dissemination, and textbooks selected by MoE 
in consultation with the Association estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,490,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and 
supplemental learning materials, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,170,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures; all in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping
Goods, including textbooks selected by MoE in consultation with the Association, 
office equipment and furniture, estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $435,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures; all in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Textbooks and educational reference literature and media time and space 
selected by MoE in consultation with the Association, and 
(b)
supplemental learning materials selected by MoE on the basis of schools’ 
requests and in consultation with the Association under contracts estimated to cost 
$3,010,000 or less in the aggregate may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A.3 of the Project shall be procured in 
Page  16
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, information technology, and office and audio visual equipment may in 
lieu of shopping procedures be procured from Inter-Agency Procurement Services Offices 
(IAPSO) of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts for works procured in accordance with 
Part B.1 above; (ii) all contract for goods procured in accordance with Part B.1 
above; (iii) the first contract for works procured in accordance with Part C.1 above; 
(iv) the first two contracts for goods procured in accordance with Part C.1 above; (v) 
all contracts for goods and textbooks procured in accordance with Part C.3 above; and 
(vi) the first two contract for goods procured in accordance with Part C.2 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the contracts procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.2 above; estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications 
and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
Page  17
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial and procurement audits estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A.2, Part A.4,  Part B, and Part C of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of 
$836,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training, including workshops, conferences, study tours and 
fellowships which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up 
to an aggregate amount of $3,600,000, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  18
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000, the short list of consulting firms and the terms 
of employment shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $20,000, the terms of reference of the 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
(e)
With respect to each contract procured in accordance to Part C.3 above, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower, through MoE, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Association set forth in the Supplemental Letter, the carrying out of the Project and 
of measures included in the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by December 1, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
Page  19
completion of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and of measures included in the 
Program during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; 
(e)
review with the Association, by December 1, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project, Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter; and
(f)
as part of the mid-term review mentioned in paragraph (d) above, the 
Association may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan satisfactory to the 
Association, with the adjustments necessary for the efficient carrying out of the 
Project, the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date.  In such event, the Borrower shall not later than thirty (30) 
days after the conclusion of each such review, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, furnish to the Association said action plan, and shall thereafter carry 
out or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
2. 
(a)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall provide, through MoE, evidence satisfactory to the Association, by no 
later than thirty (30) days after the annual budget has been approved by the 
Borrower’s Parliament of each year during Project implementation, starting as of  
2002, that sufficient resources have been allocated  in the Borrower’s annual budget 
to cover all the counterpart funding requirements under this Project for the year in 
question, including counterpart funding requirements for NAEC and PCU;
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall: (a) maintain throughout the course of Project implementation the 
Project Account referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, and shall replenish 
said account promptly before each quarter with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower 
to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; and (b) 
use the amount in said Project Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to 
Project expenditures. 
3. 
(a) 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower, 
through MoE, shall enter into an agreement with NAEC (the NAEC Agreement), under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, providing, inter alia, (i) the 
transfer of a portion of the Credit proceeds and non-Credit proceeds counterpart funds 
to NAEC on a grant basis and the provision of facilities, services and other resources 
to NAEC, required to enable NAEC carry out Part A.2 of the Project; and (ii) the 
obligation of NAEC to assist MoE in the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the PIP, 
including the obligation to keep separate records and accounts of operations, 
services, and expenditures related to Part A.2 of the Project and to provide to the 
Borrower the information necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower, through MoE, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the NAEC Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the NAEC Agreement or any 
Page  20
provision thereof.
4. 
The Borrower, through MoE, shall maintain, during the course of Project 
implementation, the PCU with the responsibility to assist MoE in  the management, 
coordination, and monitoring of the Project, with a structure and functions agreed 
with the Association, and sufficient staff with qualifications, experience, and terms 
of reference agreed with the Association.
5. 
The Borrower, through MoE shall maintain, during the course of Project 
implementation, the Project Management Committee within MoE,  to monitor, supervise, 
and evaluate the progress of Project implementation, such committee to have a 
structure, functions, and membership agreed with the Association.
6. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
MoE, shall by not later than September 30, 2001 establish and thereafter maintain, 
during the course of Project implementation Resource Centers.
7. 
The Borrower, through MoE, shall: (a) prepare by not later than November 5 of 
each year throughout the course of Project implementation, an annual working program 
(AWP) satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the annual work program for the 
implementation of the Project for the following calendar year, which is revised 
annually and incorporated into the PIP; and (b) thereafter carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, said plan in accordance with its terms.
8. 
The Borrower, through MoE, shall carry out the Project, or shall cause the 
Project to be carried out, in accordance with a Project implementation plan (PIP) 
agreed with the Association, said plan to provide key instruments for the execution 
and coordination of the Project, including: (a) procurement and financial management 
procedures; (b) the School Grant Manual; and (c) the AWP.
9.
The Borrower, through MoE, shall carry out Part A.3 of the Project under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and shall award school learning 
improvement grants to schools in accordance with a School Grant Manual, such manual to 
provide for the terms and conditions for the awarding of learning improvement grants, 
the eligibility criteria of the schools that may benefit from such grants, and model 
contracts.   
10. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
MoE, shall establish by no later than August 31, 2001 a statement of goals for  
general education and time allocation by subject and schooling grade, satisfactory to 
the Association.
