Page  1
December
9, 1998
His Excellency
David Onoprishvili
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze St.
380062
Tbilisi
Georgia
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for the Education Project
Grant No. TF 025688
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(the
Association) to indicate the Association
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one hundred eighty
thousand
(US$180,000) (the Grant) to Georgia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you,
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Judy O’Connor
Country Director for Armenia and Georgia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
GEORGIA
By
/s/
David Onoprishvili
Minister of Finance of Georgia
Date: December 30, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant is to design the Education Project that would improve 
the quality, effectiveness and efficiency in the delivery of general education
services in Georgia
(the Project).
The activities
(the Activities) for which the 
Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Strengthening the Institutional, Financial and Management Capacity of the 
Education System
(i)
implementation of national sector survey, including a social 
assessment, education finance assessment and institutional
assessment following the pilot surveys conducted during the
Page  2
preparation of the sector strategy note;
(ii)
implementation of labor market tracer studies;
(iii)
design of an effective management information and monitoring 
system based on the assessment of locally available statistics and
systems; and
(iv)
design of student assessment system, pilot testing design and 
development of implementation strategy.
(b)
Improving Quality in the Delivery of Services
(i)
design, facilitate and conduct the first stakeholders
’
workshop
which will use sector strategy note to analyze the sectors
problems and which will assess the potential solutions that will
be used by the Government and the Association to develop a draft
policy matrix and Project preparation plan;
(ii)
conduct a stakeholders analysis in order to define the target 
population for stakeholder consultation during the preparation
process and recommend a process by which the stakeholders will be
involved in the preparation workshops and analytical work.
(c)
Strengthening Project Implementation Capacity in the Ministry of 
Education
(i)
assistance in the establishment of a Project preparation and Grant 
administration unit with the Ministry of Education and provision
of initial training to staff of this unit in project management,
procurement and disbursement.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.
The
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the
results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 2000.
After
that date, the Association may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the
Association and shall be done according to the Association’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of Georgia on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may, at any time, request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities.
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the Association has made a loan with the guarantee of Georgia,
to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Association or any development
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been
suspended.
The Association may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive
Grant funds if: (a) the Association has decided, at any time after consultation with 
the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or
(b) the Recipient has 
withdrawn its request for the Association’s assistance in the financing of the 
Project.
8.
The Association is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall have no right
Page  3
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Association pursuant to this
Agreement.
