Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3689-1-PAK 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement  
 
(AJK Community Infrastructure and Services Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3689-1-PAK 
(Amendment)
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING THE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
This AMENDING AGREEMENT is dated December 6, 2005, and is made 
between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (the 
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”). 
 
(A)  
WHEREAS pursuant to a development credit agreement dated 
August 24, 2002, between the Borrower and the Association (the “Development 
Credit Agreement”), the Association agreed to provide the Borrower with a credit in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,100,000) to assist in financing the AJK Community 
Infrastructure and Services Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, (the “Project”); 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS pursuant to a project agreement dated August 24, 2002, 
between the Association and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) (the “Project 
Agreement”), AJK agreed to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to provide 
financial assistance to support the recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation of 
communities affected by an earthquake which occurred in the Borrower’s territory on 
October 8, 2005 (the Emergency), as described in Part Z of Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, as amended; 
 
(D) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to provide financial 
assistance to support the implementation of Part Z of the Project by: (i) increasing the 
amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 20,700,000); and (ii) reallocating from existing financing 
Categories, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000); and  
 
(E) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, among other 
things, of the foregoing to extend such additional financial assistance to the Borrower 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement as 
amended by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement of even 
date herewith (the Amending Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Preamble; General Conditions; Definitions and Financing 
 
Section 1.01. In the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
following new clauses (C), (D), and (E) are added as the last enumerated recitals to 
read: 
 
“(C) 
the Azad Jammu and Kashmir territory of the Borrower was 
devastated by an earthquake that occurred on October 8, 2005 (the 
Emergency);  
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide 
additional financing and to reallocate funds from existing financing 
Categories in order to support the recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation 
activities under Part Z of the Project; and  
 
(E) 
the Association has agreed to the Borrower’s request for such 
assistance;” 
 
Section 1.02. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through  
October 6, 1999) (the “General Conditions”) with the amendment set forth below, 
constitutes an integral part of this Amending Agreement: 
 
With respect to Part Z of the Project, Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part Z of the Project, may be withdrawn to pay for 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods, works or services to 
be financed under the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its Credits. To that end, if the 
Association shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the 
Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.”  
 
Section 1.03. Unless the context otherwise requires and except where 
otherwise defined in this Amending Agreement, all capitalized terms contained herein 
shall have the meanings given to them in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Preamble to this Amending Agreement, or in the General Conditions as the case 
requires. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.04. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
as follows:  
 
(i) 
by deleting the 
word “and” at the end of Sub-section (o); 
 
(ii) 
by deleting Sub-section (p); and  
 
(iii) 
by inserting the following new definitions: 
 
“(p) 
“Amending Agreement” means this Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association 
dated                                                 , 2005;  
 
(q) 
“Affected Areas” means Muzaffarabad, Poonch (Rawalakot), Bagh 
and Sadhnoti districts of AJK affected by the Emergency; 
 
(r) 
“Cash Grants” means cash payments for livelihood support to affected 
persons under Part Z.2 (a) of the Project; 
 
(s) 
“District Coordination Committees” means committees set up at the 
district level to be responsible for the coordination of the implementation of 
Part Z of the Project within the Affected Areas, and referred to in  
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for Part Z;  
 
(t) 
“Environmental and Social Guidelines for Part Z” means guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association to be prepared by AJK to deal with potential 
environmental, indigenous people, resettlement and land acquisition issues 
arising from the implementation of Part Z of the Project; 
 
(u) 
“Financial Monitoring Report or FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“Line Departments” means departments within AJK including the 
Public Works Department, Local Government and Rural Development 
Department, Education Department, Planning and Development Department 
and Revenue Department, which are responsible for implementing Part Z of the 
Project; 
 
(w) 
“Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit” or “PCMU”means the 
unit set up within the Planning and Development Department of AJK, to be 
responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of Part Z activities 
and referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for 
Part Z;  
 
(x) 
“Project Agreement for Part Z” means the agreement between the 
Association and AJK of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement for Part Z; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(y) 
“Procurement Plan for Part Z” means the Borrower’s procurement plan 
covering the initial six (6) month period (or longer) of Project implementation 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement for Part Z, to cover 
succeeding 6 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(z) 
“Report-based Disbursements for Part Z” means the Borrower’s option 
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in paragraph 10 in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(za) 
“Special Account for Part Z” means the special account referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement established for purposes of Part Z of the Project; 
and 
 
(zb) 
“Sub-Project” means an activity under Part Z.1 of the Project that has 
been selected in accordance with the requirements set out in paragraph B of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for Part Z. 
 
Section 1.05. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the 
Borrower, on the terms and subject to the conditions set out, or referred to, in 
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 36,800,000) (the “Credit”) which consists of: (a) an initial 
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,100,000) (the “Initial Credit”); 
and (b) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,700,000) 
(the “Additional Credit”).”  
 
Section 1.06. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04(b)(i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:  
 
“provided however that the commitment charge on the Additional 
Credit shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the signing of 
the Amending Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.07. A new Sub-Section (e) is added to Section 2.07 of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
 
“(e) 
Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Additional Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing 
 
January 15, 2016 and ending July 15, 2040. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on July 15, 2025, shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two and one half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.” 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Special Account for Part Z
 
Section 2.01. The following new section is added at the end of Article II of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“Section 2.10. (a) In accordance with any special instructions or 
arrangements made by the Association, the Borrower may, for the purposes of 
Part Z of the Project (excluding any activities under any other parts or 
components of the Project), open and maintain in dollars a separate special 
deposit account (“Special Account for Part Z”) in the National Bank of 
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
 
(b) 
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.10(a), above, deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account for Part Z shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement (as amended 
by the Amending Agreement).” 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The following new section is added at the end of Article III of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“Section 3.04. (a) The provisions of this Agreement relating to 
procurement of the goods, works, and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall apply to all Parts of the 
Project except for Part Z. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and services required for Part Z of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credits allocated to 
Part Z shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement for Part Z as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan for Part Z.” 
 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
in respect of Part Z of the Project shall be carried out by AJK pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement for Part Z.” 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  7
-
6
-
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. The following new section is added at the end of Article IV of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause AJK to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) 
with respect to Part Z of the Project, the Borrower  shall, and 
shall cause AJK to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year 
 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the date 
of the Association’s request for such audit, 
 
(A) certified copies of the respective financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such period as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and the audit of 
such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account for Part Z activities were made on the basis of Report-
Based Disbursements for Part Z referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement or on statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause AJK to: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year after 
the end of the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Association may have 
requested pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations under this agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall 
cause AJK to prepare and furnish to the Association Financial Monitoring 
Reports for Part Z, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part Z of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the Credit, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of  
Part Z of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual
 
and planned implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part Z of 
the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said 
reports. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report for Part Z shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date
,
and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure for Part Z of  the Project through 
the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report for Part Z shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.” 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Withdrawal of Credit Proceeds 
 
Section 5.01. The existing table relating to withdrawal of Credit proceeds set 
out in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with 
the table set out in Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The following paragraphs are added after the final paragraph of 
Schedule 1 in the Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Part Z of 
the Project prior to the date of the Amending Agreement, except that 
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$8,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (7) and (8) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
 
October 8, 2005. 
 
6. 
Notwithstanding the Closing Date indicated in Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Association may otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made for activities under Part Z of the Project after 
December 31, 2007. 
 
7. 
For Part Z of the Project, the Association may require withdrawals 
from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure 
for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; (f) Cash 
Grants; and (g) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
8. 
The term “incremental operating costs” for purposes of Part Z of the 
Project means the salaries and allowances and other emoluments of the staff 
recruited by PCMU, operations, maintenance and/or rental costs of vehicles, 
operations and maintenance costs of equipment and office premises acquired 
by the PCMU at the territory and district levels, bank charges and the costs of 
advertising in the media for bids and other purposes related to the Emergency. 
 
9. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal 
shall be made for Categories (7) and (8) in respect of payments made for 
expenditures whose contracts have been awarded eighteen (18) months after 
the Effective Date of this Amending Agreement, without the prior approval of 
the Association. 
 
10. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account for 
Part Z to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in 
Page  10
-
9
-
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the 
FMR and any other information as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements for Part Z). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account in respect of Part Z, the Borrower shall submit 
to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and applications 
of funds for Part Z of the Project for the six-month period following the date of 
such request. 
 
11. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (8) 
unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence of satisfactory 
and acceptable guidelines, eligibility criteria and financial management 
arrangements. 
 
12. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
of the Credit withdrawn for Part Z of the Project was used in a manner 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for 
deposit into the Credit Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used.” 
 
Section 5.03. The terms “Eligible Categories” and “Eligible Expenditures” 
wherever they appear in any Selected Development Credit Agreement shall, for the 
purposes of the Special Account for Part Z, include Categories (7) and (8) set out in the 
table in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Project Description
 
Section 6.01. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement setting out the 
description of the Project is amended as set out in Annex 2 to this Amending 
Agreement.  
 
Section 6.02. In the Development Credit Agreement, the term “Project” shall 
include, unless the context otherwise requires, all parts of the Project, including Part Z, 
as described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement as amended; 
provided, however, that in respect of any other agreement or understanding referred to 
or incorporated in the Development Credit Agreement the term “Project” shall not 
include Part Z thereof. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 7.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until a 
legal opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association, showing that: (i) this 
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in 
accordance with its terms, has been received by the Association; and (ii) the Project 
Agreement for Part Z has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of AJK and is legally binding upon AJK in accordance with its 
terms, has been received by the Association. 
 
Section 7.02. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 7.01 of this Amending 
Agreement. 
 
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as 
if this Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
 
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer of that Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 Islamabad 
 Pakistan
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC  
 
ECDIV-05-634 
 
92 
51 
9205971 
 Islamabad 
     92 
51 
9218976 
 
For the Association: 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
International Development Association 
 1818 
H 
Street, 
N.W. 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
20433 
 United 
States 
of 
America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
  
 
64145 
(MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Khalid Saeed 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
ANNEX I 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Revised Schedule for Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Additional Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and the Additional Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures 
for items so to be financed in such Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Initial 
Credit allocated 
(Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent)
Amount of the 
Additional   
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be financed
(1)  Civil works  
 
3,650,000 
 
75% 
 
(2)  Equipment  
 
materials, office 
 
furniture and 
 
vehicles  
 
3,600,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures(ex 
factory cost) and 80% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
(3) 
 Consultants’  
 
Services 
 
650,000 
 
85% 
(4)  Training 
    400,000 
 
100% 
 
(5)  Incremental  
 
Operating Costs 
 
900,000 
 
80% until June 2003,  
75% until June 2004 
50% until June 2005, 
and 40% until  
June 2006 
(6)  Unallocated 
 
 
 
Allocations for Part Z 
of the Project 
 
(7) Civil works,  
 
equipment,  
 
materials, and office
furniture and  
 
vehicles, consultants 
 
services, training and
incremental  
 
Operating Costs for  
 
Part Z of the Project 
6,900,000 
 
12,400,000 
 
100% 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Initial Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
Amount of the 
Additional Credit 
Allocated  
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of 
 
Expenditures 
 
to be financed
(8)  Cash Grants 
 
8,300,000 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL 
_________
16,100,000 
 
======== 
_________
20,700,000 
 
======== 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
ANNEX II 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION FOR PART Z 
 
1. 
In the Development Credit Agreement, a new paragraph is inserted after the 
first paragraph of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) setting out an additional 
objective of the Project as follows:  
 
“A further objective of the Project is to assist AJK in carrying out a program to 
restore vital economic and social infrastructure in the Affected Areas.” 
 
2. 
In the Development Credit Agreement, the following new Part is added at the 
end of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project): 
 
“Part Z
:
Recovery, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
1. 
Restoration of economic and social infrastructure through the 
carrying out of Sub-Projects for, among others, the reconstruction and repair 
of damaged roads, education and health facilities, water supply and sanitation 
systems, street pavements and drainages, and foot bridges. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of the safety nets and disaster preparedness programs 
through: 
 
(a) 
Provision of Cash Grants and in-kind assistance to 
people/households in the Affected Areas; and 
 
(b) 
Provision of training to communities in the Affected Areas in 
disaster management and construction of buildings using earthquake resilient 
methods. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical and financial assistance for the management 
and monitoring and evaluation of activities under Part Z of the Project.” 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
ANNEX 3 
 
The following Schedule 4 is inserted in the Development Credit Agreement.
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Operation of the Special Account for Part Z 
 
1. 
In accordance with any special instructions or arrangements made by the 
Association, the Borrower may, for the purposes of Part Z of the Project (excluding any 
activities under any other parts or components of the Project), open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account (the 
“Special Account for Part Z”) in the 
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account for Part Z has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account for Part Z shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements for Part Z, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements for Part Z , 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account for Part Z shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures incurred for Part Z of the Project. For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account for Part Z, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures under Part Z of the Project. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule 4, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account for 
Part Z:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred 
to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 relating to Part Z of the Project adequately provide the 
information required for Report-based Disbursements for Part Z of the Project;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
for payment of Eligible Expenditures incurred for Part Z of the Project should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account for Part Z; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
Report-based Disbursements for Part Z or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, as the case may be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account for Part Z in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule 4 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account for Part Z may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account for Part Z was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure for Part Z of the Project, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account for Part Z (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account for 
Part Z shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account for Part Z will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures for Part Z of the Project during the six (6) month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
the Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account for Part Z.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b), or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Operation of the Special Account for Part Z 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements for Part Z 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement, for the purposes 
of this Annex A to Schedule 4
,
the term “Authorized Allocation for Part Z” means the 
specific amount indicated against the name of this Project in paragraph 4 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account for Part Z 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for Part Z and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account for Part Z shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for Part Z, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account for Part Z of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation for Part Z. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account for Part Z such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account for Part Z, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account for Part Z 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account for Part Z such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Part Z for Eligible 
Expenditures under Part Z of the Project. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
for Part Z shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account for Part Z, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for Part Z. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account for Part Z as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures for Part Z of the Project. 
 
4. 
The “Authorized Allocation for Part Z” is $4,000,000. 
 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Operation of the Special Account for Part Z 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements for Part Z
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Agreement, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account for 
Part Z in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account for Part Z shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account for Part Z an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the reports referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures for Part 
Z
of the Project during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
