Report No. PID10130
Project Name             Pakistan-AJK Community Infrastructure and...
Services Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Central government administration (50%);
Sub-national government
administration (50%)
Project ID               PKPE71454
Borrower(s)              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Implementing Agency
LOCAL GOVERNMENT RURAL DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT (LGRDD)
Local Government and Rural Development
Department
Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK)
Address: Muzafarrabad, Pakistan
Contact Person: Sardar Riaz Ahmad Khan,
Secretary of Local Government,
Rural Development Department (LGRDD)
Tel: 0092-58810-33124
Fax: 0092-58810-33125
Email: Riaz_Sec@Hotmail.com
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        July 12, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 4, 2001
Bank Approval Date       July 9, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Forty percent of Pakistan's population live in conditions of absolute
poverty, manifested by low levels of literacy, high incidence of
malnutrition and diseases, and low labor force participation. Low income
rural and urban communities live in unserved or underserved settlements
with poor environmental conditions. Residents suffer from a range of
diseases caused by polluted drinking water, poor sanitation, and
inadequate provision of health care. Seasonal illnesses, like colds and
flu, as well as malaria, diarrhea, and dysentery are common. A 1998
census shows that only 34.58 percent of the rural population has access to
piped water supply (house connection) while more than 65 percent fetch
water from communal sources. These indicators of poverty are particularly
pronounced among women who suffer from deeply rooted cultural and
institutional constraints that prevent them from attaining their full
potential and in playing a significant role in community development.
However, the Government has now realized the urgent need for a new policy
approach and strategy to address this problem. Several positive actions
have already been taken in this direction since the beginning of this
decade, including the Government's recent effort to promote and /or
improve women's education and place in the society. Poverty. A Social
Assessment study as part of the project preparation has reported the
following characteristics of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). Around 88



percent of the territory's 2.9 million people live in rural areas and are
dependent on forestry and agriculture for their livelihood. Reduced
agricultural productivity has greatly affected the traditional lifestyle
and stimulated an increase in outmigration for off-farm employment.
Unemployment remains a major problem, ranging between 35 and 50 percent.
Women have had to undertake many tasks previously performed by men and, in
spite of external remittances, the average annual per capita income in AJK
is only between US$ 185 and 200, half the average income of a Pakistani.
With its mountainous terrain, its small scattered rural settlements (and
hence the lack of major urban centers), poverty is widely and fairly
evenly distributed across AJK, with only Mirpur district in slightly
better socioeconomic conditions. Lack of basic infrastructure and
services. Some progress in increasing access to basic infrastructure and
services has been made in AJK in the last few years. The Rural Water
Supply & Sanitation (RWSS) project in AJK has provided access to potable
water to almost 35 percent of the population. This still leaves a
significant deficit in water supply coverage. Moreover, deficiencies in
sanitation, solid waste collection and disposal facilities, and drainage,
which were not covered by the RWSS project, remain very high. Literacy
has increased in some districts as evidenced by the 1998 census data which
show a 48 percent literacy rate in four districts, a significant increase
from only 10 percent in the last 20 years. Despite recent successes,
however, much more remains to be done to improve existing low levels of
infrastructure and services. More than 60 percent of the population still
has no direct access to water supply. Most settlements have dirt roads
which are impassable during the rainy season, thereby limiting economic
opportunities, as well as access to market and other inputs. Residents
are not able to obtain skills training and micro-credit, which are needed
to help them improve their income. A declining number of students
(particularly girls) in secondary education and the absence of girls'
middle and high schools in most areas are major drawbacks in efforts to
improve female education. Inadequate mechanisms for sustained
infrastructure and service delivery. Local governments at the district
and municipal levels lack the institutional, technical, and financial
resources needed to address existing deficiencies in local infrastructure
and services, let alone expand them to meet increasing demands. Faced
with these constraints, they continue to depend on the Government of AJK
(GoAJK) for their operational requirements. Where infrastructure exist,
local governments fail to ensure their effective operations and
maintenance (O&M), partly due to financial constraints, partly due to
institutional weaknesses, and partly due to unwillingness on their part
and on the part of communities to accept O&M responsibilities for works
completed by higher levels of government.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to improve the well-being of
unserved and underserved low income communities through the delivery of
cost effective and sustainable community development schemes, and basic
infrastructure and services, using participatory community-based
approaches. This would be achieved by: (i) strengthening the role and
capabilities of local governments at the district and lower levels to
extend technical, financial, and management support to community-based
organizations (CBOs); (ii) mobilizing and building the capacity of CBOs to
increase their participation in development activities; and (iii)
effective governance, transparency, and accountability through
- 2 -



improvements in operational, monitoring and evaluation, and financial and
budgetary procedures for project implementation. The Project will support
the development of a participative development framework to be implemented
by the district and other lower levels of government working closely with
communities and their community-based organizations (CBOs).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Government is committed to work towards its goal of accelerating
poverty reduction initiatives through a targeted program that will
directly reach a substantial proportion of the poor. Taking advantage of
Bankwide experience in similar operations, the Government has solicited
the Bank's assistance in improving the operations of its own basic
infrastructure provisions such as the Kushal program. The Bank is best
placed to support the Government's objective because of the good practices
that have emerged from its funded projects (the RWSS, NRMP, CIP-NWFP, and
the PPAF), and the confidence that the federal and provincial government
officials in Pakistan has in the capacity of Bank to help them develop a
successful countrywide program. The Bank, therefore, has a comparative
advantage in encouraging institutional and capacity development, and in
ensuring that mechanisms for the long term sustainability of investments
will be in place. The proposed project would be fully consistent with the
GoP's and GoAJK's objectives and would provide an appropriate and timely
vehicle for the Bank to assist GoP in its devolution initiatives in ways
that will have the most positive impact on the rural and urban poor.
4. Description
The Project will have three complementary components, briefly described as
follows (see Annex 2 of the PAD for a detailed description of each): (a)
Decentralized planning and implementation assistance (US$ 3.08 million).
This component will develop the capacity of the state, district,
communities/CBOs through: (i) specialized services and training assistance
in institutional strengthening through improved procedures for project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and training and capacity
building activities; (ii) project implementation support, through
incremental staff cost for state, district and field staff; (iii)
operating costs and recurrent cost; (iv) Pakistan and overseas corss
visits; and (v) Studies on; (i) water quality testing and (ii)
baseline/time savings study within the context of a knowledge attitude
practice. This component will finance capacity building activities and
services by consultants and other service providers (such as local
consulting groups, private sector firms, NGOs, training and academic
institutions).(b) Community development (US$ 2.133 million). This
component will include: (i) mobilization, organization, and capacity
building through training and technical assistance in the development of
Community Action Plans (CAP) as the basis for the active participation of
communities in the planning, implementation, and management of their
development programs including systematic training on various parts of the
scheme cycle including survery design, construction technologies and
community initiatives, and field support activities; (ii) health and
environmental sanitation awareness (HESA) program to reduce morbidity by
generating demand for safe water, sanitation, and other basic
infrastructure, and for the improvement of the overall environment; and
(iii) support to women and children (SWC) in areas of health, skills and
management training, economic/functional literacy, and livelihood
improvement through linkages with economic and micro-credit facilities;
-3 -



A complementary economic literacy (or functional literacy) assistance will
be provided for 10 to 15 percent of participating community households;
emphasis will be on adult literacy and in activities to help combat other
urban pathologies (youth violence) emerging in many urban low income
areas. This component will finance mostly capacity building and training
activities for the CBOs and their members, and related equipment as
needed.(c) Community infrastructure (US$ 21.94 million). This component
will involve investments in basic infrastructure and services, with
priorities to be established in partnership with the communities through
their CBOs. This operation is designed in such a way that the actual
locations of the proposed interventions are not identified at this stage
since a demand-driven planning approach will be used during
implementation. A menu of infrastructure to be provided includes: (i)
water supply; (ii) community latrines; (iii) storm water drainage; (iv)
street pavements; (v) street lighting; (vi) solid waste management; (vii)
internal pathways; (viii) foot bridges; and (ix) tagging/numbering
streets; and (x) trunk and other specialized infrastructure facilities
will also be included to ensure that basic infrastructure function
efficiently. Particular attention will be given to ensuring the
integration of community programs, e.g., water supply and/or sanitation
schemes with health and sanitation activities. The Project will finance
civil works and related equipment, technical services for pre-feasibility
studies and infrastructure design, and capacity building in supervision of
works, operation and maintenance, project monitoring, etc. Costs shown
below are only indicative and will be agreed at the conclusion of
negotiations.
Decentralized Planning and Implementation Assistance US$ 3.08
Community Development US$ 2.133
Community Infrastructure & Services US$ 21.94
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $3.80
IBRD
IDA                      $20.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES        $3.35
Total Project Cost       $27.15
6. Implementation
Institutional and implementation arrangements. The proposed project will
utilize the existing institutional structure of Local Government Rural
Development Department (LGRDD) -- its district offices (DOs) covering its
rural wing, and municipal councils (MCs, i.e., municipal corporations,
municipal committees or town councils) for urban activities -- without
creating any add-on project implementation unit. The management of the
project will be based on a decentralized, demand-responsive structure that
will grant local DOs, MCs and participating CBOs as much decision-making
authority as possible, and will promote community ownership of and
responsibility for operation and maintenance of infrastructure
investments. Details included in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD).Financial management arrangements.    At project start up,
appropriately qualified and experienced accounting and financial staff
will be put in place at all levels of the project to ensure that
requirements with regards to internal controls, accounting, financial
reporting, procurement, and disbursements are met, and that independent
- 4 -



audit issues and questions are resolved. Within the PS, a Deputy
Director, who is experienced in IDA's reporting requirements, disbursement
procedures, and the operation of the Special Account, will head the
Finance and Administration.Procurement. Management of procurement would
be decentralized according to the type of contracts, and would involve the
DOs/MCs and the CBOs. The DOs responsible for Rrural and MCs responsible
for urban and peri- urban programs, with assistance from consultants and
with formal training in the World Bank's guidelines, will carry out
procurement and contract administration envisaged under the Project. Both
the DOs and MCs shall engage a procurement consultant (one each for rural
and urban) for at least the first year of the project to serve as the
focal point for all procurement matters related to their respective
schemes, and to provide comprehensive procurement support, including
procurement planning and monitoring, preparation of bidding documents,
evaluation of bids and contracts, and overall guidance in complying with
the project's overall procurement procedures. Smaller community
infrastructure work would be contracted by the CBO and larger ones by the
DOs/MCs in partnership with the CBOs. (see Annex 6 of the PAD for
details on procurement arrangements).Disbursement. The flow of funds from
the Bank and the financial management procedures for the Project are
detailed in Annex 6 of the PAD. Initially, the AJK will make funds
available in advance through the Accountant General (AG) in the form of
'Revolving Funds' to the spending unit at the State, Districts /
Municipalities and registered Community Based Organizations (CBOs). This
advance will be deposited in a bank account to be operated jointly by the
designated officials at three levels: (i) at the AJK level, the Secretary,
LGRDD, or his designated staff or Accounts Officer (AO); (ii) at the DO/MC
level, the Assistant Director (AD), and the District or Municipal Accounts
Officer (DAO / MAO); and (iii) in the case of the Joint Scheme Bank
Account, the President of the CBOs and the Social Organizer (SO) of the
DOs/MCs. The Revolving Funds shall be adjusted on completion of the
respective schemes or the final completion of the Project at the AJK level
from the information provided by the Districts. Direct payments from the
IDA Special Account would be made by PS/LGRDD to the contractors/suppliers
and the spending units at the GoAJK level, DOs/MCs, CBOs, and Accountant
General (for advance payments) against the provision of full
documentation.   The conditions for the release of the Revolving Fund
include: (i) an approved Annual Work Plan; (ii) copies of the
administrative approval of schemes by the Secretary, LGRDD; and (iii)
evidence (for cash contribution: bank certificate/bank statement duly
verified by the bank official) that the CBOs have deposited their share of
contribution as per the terms and conditions laid down in the Memorandum
of Agreement (MoA), which also includes the Community Financing Agreement
(CFA). Subsequently, the AG shall release the funds on the basis of
pre-audited and certified consolidated statement of expenditures to the
extent of GoAJK's share in the Project.Financial Auditing, Reporting, and
Monitoring. For internal auditing, the two Senior Auditors at the AJK
level will submit internal audit reports on a regular basis directly to
the Secretary, LGRDD. They will also be responsible for undertaking a
physical stock count of the Project's fixed assets and ensure complete
maintenance of the books of accounts. They will liaise with the
Government Auditors, respond to audit observations, and organize
Departmental Accounts Committee (DAC) meetings. For external auditing,
the accounts and financial statements of the Project for the year ending
June 30 will be audited by the AG. The auditors shall commence the audit
- 5-



by September 30, and submit the audited accounts and their report before
December 31 ever year to IDA (as required under the Bank's operational
policies). The audit reports to be monitored under the Audit Reports
Compliance System (ARCS) shall include: (i) a summary of sources and use
of funds; (ii) a statement of expenditures (SOE) withdrawal schedule; and
a (iii) special account statement. A Financial Monitoring Report (FMR)
will be developed in an acceptable format and will be an important part of
the financial management system. An FMR will be submitted to IDA on a
quarterly basis, not later than 45 days after the full quarter/period from
the time the credit took effect. The overall objective of FMRs is to
contribute to the assurance needed by IDA that funds disbursed to the
project are being used for the purposes intended, that project
implementation is on track, and budgeted costs will not be
exceeded.Monitoring and evaluation arrangements.    A participatory and
flexible M&E system for the Project based on the model already established
in the RWSS project has been designed and field tested. The system relies
largely on beneficiary input with quality control provided by Project
staff. The system will serve: (a) as a tool for capacity building at the
local level; and (b) as a tool for project decision-makers to use in
monitoring project implementation. Performance indicators, an internal
Management Information System (MIS), and guidelines for yearly assessments
of beneficiary impact have been established, and will be utilized and
refined with continuous feedback. In addition, independent baseline
surveys with mid-term and end-of-phase follow-up will be carried out to
evaluate impacts on the socioeconomic (poverty reduction) and
environmental conditions, as well as institutional capacity of beneficiary
communities.The PS/LGRDD with support from the existing departments will
be responsible for monitoring progress against agreed-upon output, as well
as performance and impact indicators. It will submit quarterly and annual
progress reports to IDA. Biennial reviews through stakeholder workshops,
and a mid-term review two and a half years after credit effectiveness,
would be jointly conducted by GoAJK and IDA. External evaluation and some
monitoring functions as necessary may be contracted out to a local
academic/research institutions, NGOs, or private consulting firms.At the
community level, progress in the execution of CD and CI schemes (in terms
of input, output, and outcome data) will be collected by the CBOs
themselves. To do so, the CBOs will receive training in M&E. Monitoring
data will be used to assess achievements at each phase of the project
cycle against the targets and schedules spelt out in the communities'
CAPs. They will be collected by the CBOs and will be made available to
the DOs/MCs. At the district/municipal level, monitoring information from
the CBOs will be used to review the districts' work program and will be
the basis for supervision and monitoring by the DOs and MCs, for approval
of new investment budget as necessary (e.g., for further technical
assistance or training for communities), etc. All these data will be
entered into the Project's MIS, and will be aggregated and sent to the M&E
staff of the PS, which in turn will consolidate them into progress reports
for submission to IDA.The Project will pay particular attention to gender
and participation issues. Experience in both the RWSS and CIP-NWFP
indicate that much more effort need to be done to ensure women's
participation in infrastructure and community development activities. A
process monitoring team will look at how such participation is integrated
into community action planning (CAP) and project execution at each stage
of its cycle.
-6-



7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project will depend on strong leadership and
commitment by all key stakeholders. Its success will also depend on how
effective the participatory mechanisms for infrastructure and services
delivery at the district and community levels are operationalized. In
AJK, there is a strong support for the proposed project from the highest
to the lowest levels of government. With considerable resources directed
at institutional strengthening, and assured technical, financial, and
institutional support to local administration from AJK, a stronger
capacity will be built within district and municipal governments.     At the
community level, sustainability will depend on the degree to which
community beneficiaries have ownership of their CD and CI schemes. The
contributions and obligations required from them under the Project will
help achieve this sense of ownership. A high level of participation in
project planning and implementation by the communities also helps in
building this sense of ownership, and will therefore support the
sustainability of community investments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The ICR of the completed AJK-RWSS has the following key lessons learnt:
(i) project rules need to ensure exclusion of political interference in
scheme selection; (ii) response to the needs of low income communities
requires an integrated approach to infrastructure and services delivery
offering a menu of complementary interventions from which they can choose
according to their priorities and affordability; and (iii) local schemes
of which communities share the costs, based on the concept of component
sharing, promote community ownership and project sustainability.Several
other lessons from experience which the proposed project seeks to
incorporate in its design include the following:Reorientation of
government officials and the need for public information and training:
The Federal Facilitation Component of the ongoing CIP-NWFP aims to enable
the GoP to develop programs in close collaboration with provincial
governments and AJK to address this need. Under this component,
assistance for public information and training at all levels is being
provided. The Government's proposed devolution plan aims to make the
citizens' voice heard and make public officials more accountable. This
will be accomplished through: (i) the creation of a citizen's community
board to address the problem of lack of end-user power in the face of
deficient government service delivery (this board will grant official
recognition to the monitoring role of citizens); and (ii) holding
Government bodies responsible through regular performance evaluations
linked to redesigned incentive systems; The key is participation: The
proposed project will draw from experiences with participatory,
demand-driven approaches of the CIP-NWFP and RWSS models, with some
modifications as needed;Cumbersome procedures need to be improved: The
Government will rely on decentralized budgeting and operational
procedures, along with strengthened financial controls and reporting
systems; The need for accountability: Clear responsibilities for
officials at the district and lower levels will be defined, and a strong
monitoring and evaluation system at the AJK level to monitor district
performance, and at the district level to monitor community performance,
will be put in place. CISP will also encourage outsourcing of community
outreach and training to local NGOs/consultants, with clear contractual
obligations and incentives for performance;    Concentrating resources for
impact: Project investments will not be too thinly spread as to make
-7 -



little or no impact on the intended beneficiaries. The project will
ensure an investment of a minimum level of funding per capita; andStronger
Public Health and Sanitation Program:    The proposed project will develop
and integrate such initiative with rural water and sanitation schemes,
placing emphasis on training, public consultation and information, aided
by a range of communication media and materials for different target
audiences (men, women, children, youth), along with logistical support at
the community level.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is expected to contribute to the
improvement of environmental conditions in rural, and urban areas in AJK
by providing and expanding basic infrastructures. For instance, some of
the main environmental health improvements expected under the water supply
and sanitation component include: (i) time and energy savings for women
and children by bringing sources of water closer to the home; (ii)
increased water supply for bathing, washing, and cleaning; (iii)
improvements in hygiene and sanitation practices; and (iv) reduced
bacterial contamination due to controlled disposal of human waste.Typical
investment components are expected to include: (i) water supply; (ii)
latrines and public toilets; (iii) drainage; (iv) low-cost sewerage; (v)
internal pathways and footbridges; (vi) street paving; (vii) street
lighting and sweeping; (viii) primary solid waste collection; and (ix)
community centers and meeting rooms. These small-scale infrastructure are
not expected to generate major negative environmental effects. However, a
number of adverse impacts could occur if the investments are not properly
planned, sited, designed, constructed, and operated and maintained.
Typical negative impacts that may arise include: (i) impacts from
excavation, fill and disposal of materials; (ii) disturbance and safety
hazards during construction; and (iii) induced erosion caused by
construction activities and improper drainage. For water supply and
sanitation schemes negative impacts may include: (i) contamination of the
spring source during water supply development and construction; (ii)
hydraulic interference between existing and new well sources; (iii)
inadequate drainage and wastewater disposal causing cross-contamination of
water supplies as well as mosquito breeding; and (iv) inadequate
protection of water sources from bacteriological and chemical
contamination. Environmental issues at policy and implementation levels
include: (a) water quality testing and monitoring, and institutional
measures to ensure that safe water is available to the community,
including village-based water quality control programs, (b) sustainability
of yield from water sources and potential for conflict with existing
and/or downstream users; and (c) catchment protection, watershed
management, and promotion of integrated management of local water
resources.To address the above issues, an Environmental Management
Framework has been designed as part of project preparation activities. The
main objectives of the Environmental Management Framework (EMF) are to:
(i) ensure project compliance with environmental safeguards; and (ii)
enhance the design of community infrastructure plans and sub-schemes To
this end, special emphasis was placed on "mainstreaming" environmental
considerations by taking the following actions:To ensure ownership, the
EMF was developed by GoAJK, using its own capacity and resources, to
promote continuous dialogue on environmental issues during project
- 8 -



preparation and implementation. The Head of the EPA, GoAJK, has been made
a full member of the Project Management and Coordination Committee
(PMCC);Environmental capacity within both LGRDD and the Municipal
Corporations (including Muzaffarabad, Mirpur, Kotli) will be created to
support project design, implementation, and monitoring; a training program
and materials will be developed (for use by staff and communities);CISP
will connect with ongoing and future environmental activities by GoAJK and
will build upon them (e.g., water quality survey, environmental awareness
program, solid waste management program, etc.);CISP will gradually
introduce systematic water quality testing and monitoring (which is not
currently performed in AJK); andThe community development component of
CISP will include hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness
programs.Disputed Areas: The proposed project will be carried out in AJK,
an area over which India and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. By
financing the proposed credit, IDA does not intend to make any judgment as
to the legal or other status of any disputed territories or to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Julie G. Viloria-Williams
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458-2490
Fax: 202 522-2418
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
July 19, 2002.
9



