Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3689-1-PAK 
 
Project Agreement for Part Z 
 
(AJK Community Infrastructure and Services Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR 
 
Dated December 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3689-1-PAK 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT FOR PART Z 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AZAD JAMMU AND 
KASHMIR acting by its President (AJK). 
 
WHEREAS by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
(the “Amending Agreement”) of even date herewith between the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty seven 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,600,000), through 
reallocations and additional financing, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Amending Agreement, but only on condition that AJK agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS AJK, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Amending Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Amending Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of Part Z of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) AJK declares its commitment to the objectives of Part Z of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement as amended by 
the Amending Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
engineering and community development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
Page  3
-
2
-
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AJK shall carry out Part Z of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan for  
Part Z
.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) AJK shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement for Part Z. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, AJK shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date for Part Z of the Project (set out in paragraph 6 
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement as amended 
in Section 5.02 of the Amending Agreement), or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
AJK, a plan for the future operation of Part Z of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with AJK on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) AJK shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
AJK shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part Z of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AJK of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 3.01. (a) AJK shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) 
with respect to Part Z of the Project, AJK shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon AJK’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, AJK shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a financial monitoring report for Part Z of the Project, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part Z of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Part Z Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part Z of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date of 
the Amending Agreement and this Project Agreement for Part Z, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part Z of the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amending Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and AJK 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Amending Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Amending Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before 
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify 
AJK of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Amending Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For AJK: 
 
Planning and Development Department  
 
Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir 
 
Muzafarabad 
 
Pakistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-588-10-32512 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AJK, may be 
taken or executed by its Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development 
Department, or such other person or persons as AJK shall designate in writing and AJK 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
 
Country Director 
 Pakistan 
 
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR 
 
By /s/ Sardar Sakhi-uz-Zaman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services for Part Z 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, all goods, works, and 
services (other than consultants’ services) for Part Z of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendices 1 and 2 to, the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated 
May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost more than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost more than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
 
(i) 
Invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of the bid; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
 
(iv) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
 
(v) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(vi) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;  
 
(vii) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with 
an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;  
 
(viii) 
before rejecting all bids and solic
iting new bids, the Association’s 
prior concurrence shall be obtained; 
 
(ix) 
 bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
unit prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates; 
 
(x) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates; 
 
(xi) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder;  
 
(xii) 
post-bid negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders; and 
 
(xiii) 
cost estimates shall be prepared on current market rates. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per 
contract, goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per 
contract, and all vehicles regardless of value, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works, and services required for Part Z 
of the Project may be procured on the basis of Community Participation in accordance 
with paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and procedures identified in the 
Project Implementation Plan for Part Z that are approved by the Association. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Works and Goods which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. Direct Contracting will be allowed only for a 
period of one year from the Effective Date of this Agreement. 
 
5. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
said procurement method. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Consultants’ services may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants. 
 
2. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. Single Source 
Selection
 
will be allowed only for a period of one year from the Effective Date of this 
Agreement. 
 
7. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts
 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) the first 
contract for goods and works procured using National Competitive Bidding and 
Shopping regardless of value; (b) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $ 100,000 or more
;
(c) the first contract for consultants’ services awarded  
to a firm by each Implementing Agency, regardless of value; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 100,000 or 
more per contract; (e) the first contract for individual consultant services awarded by 
each Implementing Agency, regardless of value; and (f) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program for Part Z 
 
A. General
1. 
AJK shall implement Part Z of the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Framework and the Environmental and Social Guidelines for Part Z, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of Part Z of the Project. 
 
2. 
AJK shall establish and, throughout implementation of Part Z of the Project, 
maintain with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association.: (i) the 
Project Steering Committee, to be responsible for providing the strategic and policy 
direction for the implementation of Part Z of the Project; (ii) the Project Coordination and 
Monitoring Unit, to oversee the day-to-day coordination, monitoring, implementation and 
administration of Part Z of the Project; (iii) District Coordination Committees in each 
Affected Area, to coordinate the implementation of Part Z of the Project at each 
respective district level.  
 
3. 
Line Departments shall, with the coordination of the Project Coordination and 
Monitoring Unit and District Coordination Committees, be responsible for implementing 
Part Z of the Project in their respective sectors. 
 
4. 
AJK shall take steps to ensure that, throughout implementation of Part Z of the 
Project, adequate levels of staffing are maintained as needed for the Project and agreed 
with the Association from time to time. 
 
B. 
Sub-Projects
5. 
The general eligibility criteria for the Sub-Projects to be financed under Part Z.1 
of the Project are: 
 
(a) 
All Sub-Projects must be attributable to damage caused by the 
earthquake; and 
 
(b) 
Sub-Projects relating to restoration of roads under Part Z of the Project 
must be selected from those reported by the relevant Line Departments.
 
6. 
The following types of Sub-Projects under Part Z.1 of the Project will get priority 
for financing: 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
(a) 
For restoration of roads under Part Z.1 of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Reconstruction/repairs of the major bridges; 
 
(ii) 
Roads that are vital for economic activities such as those used 
for transporting consumable goods and agricultural produce; 
 
(iii) 
Roads that benefit more population; and 
 
(iv) 
Roads that pose risks to plying traffic. 
 
(b) 
For repair and/or reconstruction of government administration buildings 
under Part Z.1 of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Completely destroyed buildings as against partially damaged 
buildings; and 
 
(ii) 
Replacement or repair of vital basic damaged furniture in the 
restored government administration buildings. 
 
(c) 
For repair and/or reconstruction of education facilities under Part Z.1 of 
the Project: 
 
(i) 
Completely destroyed schools as against partially damaged 
schools; and 
 
(iii) 
Replacement or repair of vital basic damaged furniture and 
teaching equipment in the restored schools. 
 
(d) 
For repair and/or reconstruction of health facilities under Part Z.1 of the 
Project: 
 
(i) 
Completely destroyed dispensaries particularly in rural areas; 
 
(ii) 
Replacement or repair of vital basic damaged furniture and 
equipment in the restored hospital/dispensary. 
 
(e) For 
repair of water supply and sanitation schemes under Part Z.1 of the 
Project: 
 
(i) 
Restoration of all water supply and sanitation schemes reported 
damaged to their pre-Emergency conditions; and  
 
(ii) 
Restoration works for schemes where the outages are frequent.
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
(f) 
For repair/restoration of street pavement and drainage schemes
 under 
Part Z.1 of the Project: 
 
(i) 
Restoration of all street pavement and drainage schemes reported 
damaged, to their pre-Emergency conditions; and 
 
(ii) 
Restoration of street pavement and drainage schemes where 
outages are more frequent. 
 
C. Review
7. AJK 
shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part Z of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part Z of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part Z of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part Z of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
