Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3689 PAK
Project Agreement
(AJK 
Community Infrastructure and Services Project
)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
Dated August 24, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3689 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR acting by its President 
(AJK).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,100,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that AJK agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to AJK in accordance with the Borrower’s standard budgetary 
procedures; and
WHEREAS AJK, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AJK declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through LGRDD with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, engineering and community development practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AJK shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AJK shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
available to the communities for the purposes of Parts B.1 and C.1 of the Project on a 
non-reimbursable basis and in accordance with a funds flow arrangement acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
Page  3
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AJK shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, AJK shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and AJK, a plan for 
the future operation of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
AJK on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) AJK shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
AJK shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by AJK of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) AJK shall maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
AJK shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) referred 
to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year, 
(A)
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
Page  4
paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B)
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  5
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon AJK’s progress reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, AJK shall prepare and furnish  to the Association 
a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and AJK 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify AJK of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For AJK:
Planning and Development Department 
Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Muzafarabad
Pakistan
Facsimile:
92-588-10-32512
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AJK, or by AJK on behalf of the 
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Additional 
Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department, or such other person or persons as AJK 
shall designate in writing and AJK shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Islamabad, 
Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Abid Hasan
Acting Country Director, Pakistan
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
By /s/ Sardar Muhammad Siddique Khan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
:
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 
2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower and to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  8
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) (i)  Pipes and fittings, irrespective of value; (ii) all other goods estimated to cost 
$30,000 equivalent or more but less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
not to exceed $500,000 equivalent; and (iii) works estimated to cost more than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, may all be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1.
Grouping of Contracts
(i)
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages to 
attract national bidders.
(ii)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures.
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the 
provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(aa)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission 
of bids;
(bb)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;
(cc)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;
(dd)
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(ee)
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
(ff)
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;
(gg)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(hh)
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained; 
(ii)
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates (CSR);
(jj)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
Page  9
(kk)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; 
and 
(ll)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders.
Page  10
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
With respect to works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent: 
(a)
labor may be procured by the concerned community at market rates or provided 
by it as part of its in-kind contribution to the capital costs of the works; and
(b)
construction materials may be procured by the concerned community under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) the first contract for goods awarded by each implementing agency in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section I, (b) the first contract for goods and the 
first contract for works, irrespective of value, awarded by each implementing agency in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I, and (c) each subsequent contract for 
goods and each subsequent contract for works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, awarded by each implementing agency in accordance with the provisions of Part B or Part 
C. 1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Page  11
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
Page  12
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of consulting firms 
awarded by each implementing agency, irrespective of value, and (ii) each subsequent such 
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultants awarded by each implementing agency, irrespective of value, and (ii) each 
subsequent such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
AJK shall implement the Project in accordance with the OM, the EMF and the FMM, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AJK shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
(a)
AJK shall, throughout the Project implementation period, maintain the PMCC, 
chaired by the Secretary, LGRDD, and including as its members, senior officials from the Public 
Health Engineering Department, the Finance Department, the Planning and Development 
Department, the Local Government Board, the Rural Development Department, and the 
Environmental Protection Agency, all of AJK, and at least two members representing civil 
society, academe and the private sector. The PMCC shall be assisted on a day-to-day basis by a 
secretariat composed of existing LGRDD staff and headed by a coordinator under arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b)
The PMCC shall be responsible for routine coordination and monitoring of 
project activities, including, approval and oversight of community development and community 
infrastructure schemes, promotion of cooperation among line departments, district and municipal 
government agencies and community representative organizations, monitoring of implementation 
performance, and removal of policy and procedural obstacles and bottle-necks. 
3.
(a)
AJK shall, not later than September 30, 2002, constitute, a Project Steering 
Committee (PSC), chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development 
Department of AJK, and including as its members, among others, the Secretary, LGRDD, the 
Secretary, Finance Department, the Secretary, Health Department and the Secretary, Education 
Department of AJK. The PSC shall meet at least twice a year and more often if necessary.
Page  13
(b)
The PSC shall be responsible for top-level project oversight and coordination 
and periodic review of the policy framework of the Project.
4.
AJK shall take measures, satisfactory to the Association, to keep project staff turnover to 
a
minimum, ensuring that key project staff are retained in their posts for at least two (2) years 
after appointment. 
5.
AJK shall, prior to approving any CD scheme or CI scheme proposed to be carried out 
under the Project, satisfy itself that such scheme has met the selection criteria set out for such 
scheme in the Operational Manual, including the requirement that the community sponsoring 
such scheme has:
(a)
prepared a community action plan (CAP) satisfactory to AJK;
(b)
undertaken to carry out such scheme in accordance with the policies, principles 
and procedures set forth in the OM, in the EMF and in the relevant CAP;
(c)
undertaken to contribute any and all land required for such scheme, which shall 
have been acquired by or otherwise made available to the community for this purpose on a 
voluntary basis, and at least 20% of the estimated capital cost, and 100% of the operation and 
maintenance cost, of such scheme;
(d)
demonstrated that the local infrastructure developed under such scheme shall be 
supported by such primary infrastructure as shall be needed to ensure effective and efficient 
operation;
(e)
 formed a CBO  to represent it, which shall have been duly registered under the 
laws of the Borrower, be broad-based and include representation of women; and
(f)
caused such CBO, acting for the community, to enter into a memorandum of 
agreement with the responsible district or municipal office of LGRDD, substantially conforming 
to the standard form agreement appended to the Operational Manual, so as to assume full 
responsibility for the preparation, design and implementation of such scheme while it is being 
carried out, and for its operation and maintenance upon its completion.
6.
AJK shall ensure that the first three memoranda of agreement proposed to be entered into 
with the concerned communities pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 (f) of this Schedule 
will be furnished to the Association for its prior review and concurrence.  
7.
AJK shall ensure that:
(a)
representatives of the concerned community will be invited to participate in 
LGRDD’s procedures for inviting and evaluating bids and awarding contracts for the 
procurement of goods and works required for any such community’s CD or CI scheme;   
(b)
procurement documentation and record keeping systems satisfactory to the 
Association will be developed and adopted for LGRDD not later than 
December 31, 2002;
Page  14
(c)
two individual consultants will be appointed in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement not later than 
September 30, 2002, to provide procurement assistance to LGRDD at least during the first year 
of Project implementation; and 
(d)
key procurement staff of LGRDD will be identified, trained in the procurement 
procedures mandated for the Project and designated as the focal points for procurement for the 
duration of Project implementation, all in a manner satisfactory to the Association and not later 
than December 31, 2002.
8.
AJK shall cause surveys to be carried out every twelve months to determine the 
prevailing market prices of construction materials required for CI schemes.
9.
AJK shall ensure that:
(a)
the financial management staff of LGRDD will be trained in the financial 
information system mandated for the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and not 
later than September 30, 2002; and
(b)
the financial information system mandated for the Project will be computerized 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association and not later than 
March 31, 2003.
10.
AJK shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
