Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3689 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(AJK Community Infrastructure and Services Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 24, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3689 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 2002, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
Page  2
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to AJK, as set forth in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and AJK (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AJK” means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and any successor 
thereto;
(b)
“CAP” means a community action plan formulated by and for each community 
participating in the Project to serve as a comprehensive framework for the planning, designing, 
financing, implementing, operating and maintaining, and monitoring and evaluating of such 
community’s CD and CI schemes consistently with the policies, principles and procedures set out 
in the Operational Manual;
(c)
“CBO” means a community-based organization or association, including a 
village or a women’s or a mohalla
(low-income urban neighborhood) group or committee or 
self-help organization, established and operating in the territory of the Borrower;
(d)
“CD scheme” means a Community Development scheme to be carried out under 
Part B.1 of the Project;
(e)
“CI scheme” means a Community Infrastructure scheme to be carried out under 
Part C.1 of the Project;
Page  3
(f)
 “Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the environmental 
management framework dated October 2001, satisfactory to the Association, setting out the 
principles, policies and procedures for assessing and mitigating the environmental and social 
impacts of CI schemes, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association; 
(g)
“Financial Management Manual” or “FMM” means the financial management 
manual prepared by AJK dated April 30, 2002, satisfactory to the Association, setting out the 
principles, policies and procedures for the financial management of the Project;
(h)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(i)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing July 1 and 
ending June 30 of each year;
(j)
“LGRDD” means the Local Government and Rural Development Department of 
AJK;
(k)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established and operating in the 
territory of the Borrower;
(l)
“PMCC” means the Program Management and Coordination Committee referred 
to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and AJK of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee established and maintained 
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(o)
“Operational Manual” or “OM” means the operational manual prepared by AJK 
dated March 15, 2002, satisfactory to the Association, setting out the principles, policies and 
procedures for the identification, selection, preparation, approval and implementation of CD 
schemes and CI schemes, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association; and
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
16,100,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in the 
National Bank of Pakistan a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 15  and 
July 15 commencing July 15, 2012 and ending January 15, 2037. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on January 15, 2022 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
Page  5
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years 
on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department, 
AJK, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause AJK to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of AJK 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AJK to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to AJK the proceeds of the Credit in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard budgetary procedures.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AJK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
Page  7
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
AJK shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that AJK will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by AJK, and is legally binding upon AJK in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine 
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
(20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Page  8
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Secretary to the 
Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that Division is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
ECONOMIC
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Islamabad, 
Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Waqar Masood Khan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Abid Hasan
Acting Country Director, Pakistan
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
7,150,00075%
(2)
Equipment, materials,
6,100,000100% of foreign 
office furniture and 
expenditures, 100%
vehicles 
of local expenditures
(ex factory cost) and 
80% of local expenditures
for other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’
650,00085%
services 
(4)
Training 
    1,100,000
                      100%     
(5)
Incremental operating
900,00080% until June 30, 2003,
costs
75% until June 30, 2004,
50% until June 30, 2005
and 40% until
June 30, 2006
(6)
Unallocated
200,000
TOTAL
16,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “consultants’ services” includes the services provided by NGOs, in 
Page  11
addition to firms, individuals and training institutions; and 
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the salaries and travel and daily 
allowances and other emoluments of LGRDD staff, appointed to posts created after September 
30, 2001, and recruited in accordance with a project staffing plan acceptable to the Association 
for purposes of the Project, and the operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment and 
offices acquired under and/or used in carrying out the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 1, 2001. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each, in the case of firms; (c) consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, in the case of individuals; (d) training, workshops and 
study tours; and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in delivering cost effective and sustainable 
community development programs and basic infrastructure services to under-served rural, urban 
and peri-urban communities (the communities) in AJK, using participatory community-based 
approaches, and, to that end:  (a) to support an increase in the number and capacity of community 
representative organizations; (b) to enhance the capacity of the territorial, district and municipal 
governments to extend technical, financial and management support to community representative 
organizations; and (c) to generally enhance accountability and transparency through the 
establishment of improved operational, financial and budgeting procedures and monitoring and 
evaluation systems.    
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
: Decentralized Planning and Implementation Assistance
1.
Development of capacity in at the territory, district and municipal levels, in CBOs and in 
the communities for developing and using community-driven development approaches and 
techniques, particularly in such areas as program development, community participation, 
awareness campaigns and other promotional activities.
2.
Strengthening of LGRDD at the territory, district and municipal levels in terms of project 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, through the provision of technical assistance, 
training, equipment and vehicles and recurrent and operating costs. 
Page  12
3.
Carrying out of: (a) water quality testing in selected communities to assess the impact of 
the Project; (b) surveys to determine whether the specified initial viability criteria established for 
community infrastructure schemes under the Project will be met; and (c) such other community 
infrastructure-related studies as may be needed from time to time.
Part B
: Community Development 
1.
Carrying out of community development schemes, each consisting of:
(a)
community mobilization and capacity building activities such as: (i) raising 
community awareness through training, media campaigns and other promotional activities; (ii) 
forming, organizing and strengthening of CBOs; (iii) fostering community participation, 
inter 
alia
,
through the preparation of  community action plans (CAPs) to form the basis of active 
participation by community members in planning, developing and implementing their own 
development schemes; and (iv) systematic orientation and training in survey design, construction 
technology, and, with respect to CBOs, management, accounting, resource mobilization and 
operation and maintenance (O&M);
(b)
health and environmental sanitation (HESA) development activities such as: (i) 
improving environmental sanitation, and personal and domestic hygiene; (ii) reducing morbidity 
by generating demand for safe water and sanitation and other basic infrastructure; and (iii) 
improving the overall environment; and 
(c)
women and children’s development activities which shall enable them, 
inter alia
,
to: (i) develop skills required to realize the benefits of improved community infrastructure, 
particularly water supply, and to participate in community education (or functional literacy); (ii) 
obtain improved access to the formal credit system; (iii) play a greater role in planning and 
implementing community infrastructure, water supply and sanitation schemes, and other 
environmental management initiatives, and (iv) participate in resource mobilization activities, 
such as collection of user charges, operation and maintenance (O&M) and project monitoring 
and evaluation.  
2.
Carrying out of studies, pilots, field testing and dissemination activities centering round 
particular themes such as women and children’s participation in water and sanitation services, 
environmental management, operation and maintenance and organizing approaches to 
community infrastructure schemes, including special studies such as beneficiary 
satisfaction/report card activities. 
Part C
: Community Infrastructure and Services 
1.
Carrying out of schemes for construction and/or upgrading of basic community 
infrastructure and services, including: (a) water supply; (b) community latrines; (c) regular and 
storm-water drainage; (d) street pavements; (e) street lighting; (f) solid waste management; (g) 
internal pathways; (h) foot bridges; and (i) street tagging and numbering; and supported by the 
necessary trunk infrastructure and other specialized community facilities. 
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (2), (3) (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
that do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
Page  14
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to that provision in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
Page  15
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
