                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001123



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA 3689 PAK)

                                            ON A

                            CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                  SDR 16.1 MILLION (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                             FOR

           AJK COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES PROJECT


                                       March 10, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Agricultural and Rural Development Sector
Pakistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 27 April 2009)

                      Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee (PKR)
                          PKR 1.00 = US$ 0.0124
                          US$ 1.00 = PKR 80.51

                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 ­ June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJK     Azad Jammu and Kashmir
CAP     Community Action Plan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community Based Organization
CD      Community Development
CI      Community Infrastructure
CIP     Community Infrastructure Project
CISP    Community Infrastructure and Services Project
CPIs    Community Physical Infrastructures
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DO      Development Objective
EOP     End-of Project
EMF     Environmental Management Framework
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
GoAJK   Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
GoP     Government of Pakistan
HESA    Health, Environment and Sanitation Awareness
HH      Household
ICRR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IO      Intermediate Outcome
IRDO    Integrated Rural Development Organization
ISR     Implementation Status and Results
IP      Implementation
LGRDD   Local Government and Rural Development Department
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MOA     Memorandum of Agreement
MTR     Mid-term Review
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NWFP    North West Frontier Province
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
OM      Operational Manual
PAD     Project Appraisal Report
PDO     Project Development Objective
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development
PMCC   Project Management and Coordination Committee
PS     Project Secretariat
PWD    Public Works Department
RWSS   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SWC    Support to Women and Children




                        Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
                      Country Director:        Yusupha B. Crookes
                       Sector Manager:         Gajanand Pathmanathan
                  Project Team Leader:         Raja Rehan Arshad
                     ICR Team Leader:          Takayuki Hagiwara (FAO/CP)/
                                               Rashed ul Qayyum
                                           PAKISTAN
            AJK COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES PROJECT

                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information                                                   i
    B. Key Dates                                                           i
    C. Ratings Summary                                                     i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes                                             ii
    E. Bank Staff                                                         ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis                                         ii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                              v
    H. Restructuring                                                      v
    I. Disbursement Graph                                                 vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                      1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                       4
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                  8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            15
6. Lessons Learned                                                        16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                      19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result                                        37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders         40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                                     41
A. Basic Information
                                                                          AJK Community
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:             Infrastructure and
                                                                          Services Project
Project ID:             P071454                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36890,IDA-36891
ICR Date:               03/10/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 16.1M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 29.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 35.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Local Government and Rural Development Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/20/2000     Effectiveness:                                09/18/2002
Appraisal:            10/25/2001     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/09/2002     Mid-term Review:           04/25/2005         04/26/2005
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2006         11/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 50                  45
Health                                                                 5                    2
Other social services                                                 15                  13
Roads and highways                                                    10                  20
Sub-national government administration                                20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  13                  10
Decentralization                                                      24                  20
Other human development                                               13                    8
Participation and civic engagement                                    25                    5
Rural services and infrastructure                                     25                  57

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Gajanand Pathmanathan                Adolfo Brizzi
Project Team Leader:       Raja Rehan Arshad                    Julie G. Viloria-Williams
ICR Team Leader:           Raja Rehan Arshad
ICR Primary Author:        Hagiwara Takayuki (FAO)




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to assist in delivering cost effective and sustainable
community development programs and basic infrastructure services to under-served rural,
urban and peri-urban communities (the communities) in AJK, using participatory
community-based approaches, and, to that end: (a) to support an increase in the number
and capacity of community representative organizations; (b) to enhance the capacity of
the territorial, district and municipal governments to extend technical, financial and
management support to community representative organizations; and (c) to generally
enhance accountability and transparency through the establishment of improved
operational, financial and budgeting procedures and monitoring and evaluation systems.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objective was not revised throughout the project implementation,
although it was noted that there are slight differences between the PAD and the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Policy and institutional framework fully established and operational and formally
Indicator 1 :
                  approved by the AJK authorities.
                  Although AJK has a
                                                                               Notification for
                  legacy of community
                                                                               formation of
                  based approaches for        By and large all
Value                                                                          Village
                  service delivery, there is investments being
quantitative or                                                                Organizations was
                  no formal policy on         made according to
Qualitative)                                                                   approved by the
                  community share in the the policy.
                                                                               president of AJK in
                  capital cost of basic
                                                                               2007.
                  infrastructure.
Date achieved     09/01/2002                  12/31/2006                       11/30/2008
                  This policy is a key for the GoAJK to adopt CISP's community mobilization
Comments
                  policies in other projects and departments' community development activities.
(incl. %
                  The project also successfully installed in the GoAJK an accountable and
achievement)
                  transparent mechanism.
                  Number of fully functional and active CBOs organized and participating
Indicator 2 :
                  throughout the project from planning to operation and maintenance.
                                                                               457 (established
Value
                                                                               CBOs)
quantitative or   50                          425
                                                                               396 (sustainable
Qualitative)
                                                                               CBOs)
Date achieved     09/01/2002                  11/30/2008                       11/30/2008
Comments          Successful completion of CPI schemes itself suggests that CBOs were functional
(incl. %          and active and able to manage community organizations, implement CPIs, and


                                                 iii
achievement)    ensure transparent community-based procurement and accounting, at least during
                the implementation.
                Community Development and infrastructure schemes have reached x number of
Indicator 3 :
                people in rural and x number of people in peri-urban and urban areas.
Value                                      Rural - 680,000                  Rural - 886,000
quantitative or 0                          Urban and Peri-                  Urban and Peri-
Qualitative)                               Urban - 150,000                  Urban # 171,000
Date achieved 09/01/2002                   11/30/2008                       11/30/2008
Comments
                These beneficiaries are members of households involved in the CPI schemes with
(incl. %
                some sort of contribution including cash and/or labour.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                     Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 : All elements of institutional framework established and functional.
                                                                           Framework
Value
                                            Fully functional               formally approved,
(quantitative   Partially established
                                            and mainstreamed               made functional
or Qualitative)
                                                                           and mainstreamed
Date achieved 09/01/2002                    11/30/2008                     11/30/2008
Comments
                Policy and institutional framework was formally approved by the PSC in March
(incl. %
                2003 and its various elements were implemented in the subsequent years.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of sites designed and implemented in a decentralized manner.
Value
(quantitative   45                          425                            457
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2002                    11/30/2008                     11/30/2008
Comments
                Number of sites where infrastructure were designed and implemented in a
(incl. %
                decentralized manner is 107% of the Original Target Value.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of community based organizations (CBOs) registered and operational.
Value
(quantitative   50                          425                            545
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2002                    11/30/2008                     11/30/2008
Comments
                Number of CBOs registered and operational is 128% of the Original Target
(incl. %
                Value.
achievement)
                Number of CBOs with fully functional operation and maintenance bank
Indicator 4 :
                accounts.
Value                                                                      457
(quantitative   50                          425                            (implementation)
or Qualitative)                                                            396 (sustainable



                                              iv
                                                                           CBOs)
Date achieved 09/01/2002                   11/01/2008                      11/01/2008
Comments        EOP no. of registered & operational CBOs with bank accounts is 107% of the
(incl. %        Original Target. But, as per PDO Indicator 2, 61 CBOs have concerns about
achievement) sustainability. GoAJK has launched interim project to address these concerns.
                Number of communities with new, rehabilitated, or upgraded infrastructure and
Indicator 5 :
                services.
Value
(quantitative   0                          425                             457
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2002                   11/30/2008                      11/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        All 457 CBOs completed CPI schemes.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                          IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     01/09/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.50
  2     09/30/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.62
  3     03/30/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.33
  4     09/30/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.05
  5     10/08/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.09
  6     04/09/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.44
  7     08/09/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     8.95
  8     03/27/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   10.82
  9     10/12/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   15.94
 10     04/20/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   16.43
 11     10/26/2007          Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            19.11
 12     04/27/2008          Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            23.62
 13     12/17/2008          Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            29.06
 14     05/28/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   37.21


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 The project addressed two key aspects of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in
place since 1998: (i) a more efficient governance structure; and (ii) a stronger institutional structure to
deliver services and infrastructure to low income groups. It was also consistent with the AJK
government's 10 year Perspective Plan (2001- 2011). Both documents emphasized the key role of strong
institutions at the local levels in delivering infrastructure and services to low income communities.

1.1.2 The condition of AJK infrastructure at the time of appraisal was poor and residents suffered from
a range of diseases caused by polluted drinking water, poor sanitation and malnutrition. Compounded with
inadequate provision of health care especially in rural areas, seasonal illnesses including colds and flu, as
well as malaria, diarrhoea, and dysentery were common.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators:

1.2.1 The development objective of the Project was to assist in delivering cost effective and sustainable
community development programs and basic infrastructure services to under-served rural, urban and peri-
urban communities in AJK, using participatory community-based approaches, and, to that end: (a) to
support an increase in the number and capacity of community representative organizations; (b) to enhance
the capacity of the territorial, district and municipal governments to extend technical, financial and
management support to community representative organizations; and (c) to generally enhance
accountability and transparency through the establishment of improved operational, financial and
budgeting procedures and monitoring and evaluation systems.

1.2.2 Differences of the PDO between the PAD and DCA were noted. The PDO above was cited from
the DCA.

1.2.3 The key performance indicators at the outcome level listed in Annex 1: Project Design Summary
of the PAD were:

         (i)      Policy and institutional framework fully established and operational, and formally
                  approved by the AJK authority;
         (ii)     Number of local communities and CBOs are organized and fully participating
                  throughout the project from planning to operation and monitoring;
         (iii)    Community Development and infrastructure schemes have reached x people in rural and
                  x in peri-urban and urban areas.

1.2.4   The Summary Outcome/impact indicators listed in the main text of the PAD (p. 2) are:

         (i)      Number and distribution of communities which implemented Community Infrastructure
                  (CI) and Community Development (CD) schemes;
         (ii)     Proportion of infrastructure facilities in working condition;
         (iii)    Lower unit cost of CI schemes completed, compared with standard government
                  schemes;
         (iv)     Strong CBOs and women groups as evidenced by new development activities initiated
                  independently of CISP;
         (v)      Increase in percentage of GoAJK investment budgets managed by district and other
                  lower units of government; and



                                                     1
           (vi)      Improved planning, budgeting, and reporting of investment in CI and CD schemes and
                     services by lower levels of government.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators and Reasons/Justification

1.3.1 The PDO remained unchanged, but the inconsistency of the indicators of the PAD was adjusted
and revised in the mid-term review (MTR). The agreed indicators were:

           (i)       Policy a nd institutional f ramework f ully established and operational, a nd f ormally
                     approved by the AJK authority (unchanged);
           (ii)      Number of fully functional and active CBOs organized and participating throughout the
                     project from planning to operation and maintenance; and
           (iii)     Community Development and infrastructure schemes have reached x number of people
                     in rural and x number of people in peri-urban and urban areas (unchanged).

1.4 Main Beneficiary

1.4.1 The project's direct beneficiaries were rural, urban and peri-urban low income inhabitants in the
project area, with emphasis on communities which have a serious lack of essential infrastructure and
services. In principle, the beneficiary communities were inclusive of all poor, un-served and underserved
communities. However, priority was given to those which demonstrated a willingness to (i) share 20% of
the total capital costs; and (ii) voluntarily donate lands necessary for the construction of infrastructure.

1.4.2 The main benefits from the project for the participating communities were (i) increased access to
basic infrastructure and services in low income rural and urban communities; (ii) development of
community capacity through participation in managing and developing community-based infrastructure
projects.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1    The project had three components as follows:

Component 1: Decentralized Planning and Implementation Assistance (US$ 3.08 million)

1.5.2 This component aimed to develop capacity of AJK state, district/tehsil,1 municipal staff and
communities/CBOs. This component financed (i) capacity building activities; (ii) project implementation
support through incremental staff costs; (iii) operation and recurrent costs; (iv) in-country and overseas
learning visits; (v) studies on (a) water quality testing; (b) baseline survey; and (c) community
infrastructure related studies.

Component 2: Community Development (US$ 2.133 million)

1.5.3 This component was to support the formation and operationalization of CBOs for communities to
take greater roles in planning, implementation and maintenance of small-scale community-based
infrastructures. This component financed (i) mobilization, organization, and capacity building of
community members through training and technical assistance in the preparation of Community Action
Plans (CAPs); (ii) health and environmental sanitation awareness (HESA) programme; and (iii) support to


1
    Tehsil is a sub-division of a District; a district usually has 3-5 tehsils with exceptions (e.g., 2 tehsils, or
    occasionally 6 tehsils in a district).


                                                              2
women and children (SWC) in areas of health, skills and management training, economic/functional
literacy, and livelihood improvement through linkages with economic and micro-credit facilities.

Component 3: Community Infrastructure (US$ 21.94 million)

1.5.4 This component involved investments in basic infrastructure and services, with priorities
established with the CISP communities through their CBOs. Community share was 20% of infrastructure
costs in a form of cash contribution and lands. A menu of infrastructure provided to the communities
included: (i) water supply; (ii) community latrines; (iii) drainage; (iv) street pavement; (v) street lighting;
(vi) primary solid waste collection; (vii) internal pathways; (viii) foot bridges; and (ix) tagging/numbering
streets. In addition, the component included necessary small-scale trunk infrastructures and other
specialized community infrastructures as required.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The above-mentioned three project components were not revised. However, one additional
component, the Part Z, was subsequently added to the project in January 2006 after the October 2005
earthquake (see section 1.7).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

1.7.1 In r esponse to the damages c aused by t he earthquake2, the D CA w as am ended t hree t imes.
However, as explained below, the extension of closing date, which was granted in the second amendment,
was the only significant change the project had during the project period.

1.7.2 The first amendment included the establishment of the Earthquake Additional Financing Project,
which i s r ecognized " Part Z " of AJK-CISP w ith the C redit Number 3689- 1 P AK. This amendment
allowed reallocation of SDR 6.9 m illion (approximately US$ 10 million) from t he main CISP t o Part Z
and added another SDR 20.7 million to Part Z for a total of SDR 27.6 million with the main purpose of
restoration and reconstruction o f social and p hysical infrastructure in t he five a ffected districts o f AJK.
The Part Z was originally to be completed by December 31, 2007.

1.7.3 Subsequently, the credit was further amended twice: (i) the second DCA amendment in December
2006: allowing extension of the CISP closing date to November 30, 2008, and at the same time reduction
of funding for Part Z to SDR 20.7 million and restored CISP's funding to the original SDR 16.1 million,
and (ii) the third amendment in August 2007: allowing extension of Part Z from December 31, 2007 to
March 31, 2009.3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Although there was some inconsistency in the outcome/impact indicators in the PAD as indicated
in the paragraph 1.2.3 and 1.2.4, overall, the project quality at entry was satisfactory. It is noted that no
formal quality review at entry was conducted by the Bank for this project.

2
    It occurred on 8 October 2005 with a scale of 7.8 on the Richter scale. Its epicentre at was about 19 km northeast
    of Muzaffarabad,the capital city of AJK. It is estimated that the death toll was over 80,000 and 3.3 million were
    left homeless.
3
    The Part Z component is still on-going, and therefore, it was agreed with the Bank that this ICRR does not to
    include analysis of the component.


                                                           3
2.1.2 The project responded t o GoAJK's priorities a s well as A JK c ommunities' n eeds i n improving
their living conditions through improving community infrastructures. The project design was build on the
lessons of the Bank's financed two earlier projects (i) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) project
(1992 ­ 20 00), which covered a quarter of AJK's population, and (ii) Community Infrastructure Project
(CIP) i n N orthwest F rontier P rovince ( NWFP), which effectively or ganized l ocal communities to pl an,
finance, a nd i mplement c ommunity infrastructure pr ojects a t c onsiderably l ower c ost than ot her
comparable government projects.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 With successful experiences gained in the RWSS project, which had a different institutional
arrangement and approach to communities, it took quite sometime for the project staff to get used to the
key project concept including (i) decentralization processes, (ii) the institutional arrangement having the
Local Government and Rural Development Department (LGRDD) secretary serving double roles as the
head of the department and the project director at the same time, (iii) multi-sectoral operation and
coordination between collaborating sector institutions, and (iv) mainstreaming the project activities into
the line department. These factors were foreseen during the project preparation and therefore, to overcome
such expected difficulties, mitigation measures and strategies were prepared in the Operational Manual
(OM). Especially emphasis was given to constant monitoring at all levels including the central, district and
community levels to facilitate timely decisions. Nevertheless, the project failed to establish an effective
M&E system due to delays in recruiting M&E staff for the initial two years. As a result of all these
factors, it faced serious delays in implementation, as the MTR, which was carried out before the
earthquake in April ­ May 2005, also mentioned possible cancellation of undisbursed credit amounts.
There are other major factors identified that caused delays in project implementation - details of each
factor are as follows:

2005 Earthquake

2.2.2 Project implementation was seriously affected by the October 2005 earthquake in northern
Pakistan. This event occurred almost at the end of project's three year implementation (it was originally a
four-year project). After the earthquake, project activities became virtually at a stand still; it took about
two years to recover from the state of inertia for implementing project activities as originally designed. A
total of 267 schemes were damaged with a value of PKR 47 million (US$ 590,000). In the rural areas, 70
CBOs were affected with 247 schemes damaged while in urban areas, 9 CBOs were affected with 21
schemes damaged. Approximately PKR 32 million (US$ 400,000) was spent on restoration work, while
PKR 12 million (US$ 150,000) was written off by dropping the completely damaged schemes. It also
brought unexpected challenges to the project: the reconstruction of houses was the first priority for
LGRDD; the office as well as documents were destroyed; project staff were deployed to emergency relief
activities; many of the staff lost their houses as well as family members and/or relatives; among the
project staff, the project lost three staff and had five serious injuries; it faced high staff turnover as well.

Under staffing

2.2.3 There were several changes at the senior project management level even before the earthquake
and many critical positions remained vacant throughout the project period. Around 9 to 12 officer level
staff positions were constantly vacant during the middle of project period including post earthquake
(FY2005-FY2007), while 7 remained vacant at the end of the project. This also affected the Financial
Management (FM) arrangements of the project. Coupled with the losses of the earthquake was the GoAJK
policy to restrict deputations to three years. Positions were either vacant or occupied by officers given
additional charge. Procurement suffered from delay due to lack of qualified staff. The project staff


                                                       4
entrusted with procurement responsibilities managed many diverse tasks, and procurement was dealt with
only as the need arises and in a rather ad hoc fashion. This frequently led to unnecessary delays and
problems in procurement. It should also be noted that despite the fact that the importance of M&E was
stressed throughout the PAD and the OM, the deputy director of the M&E section was recruited only after
two years project implementation. This contributed to the weak implementation of M&E. The aftermath of
the earthquake especially caused a shortage of skilled personnel in the project area. Donor agencies
including NGOs working for the relief and rehabilitation activities attracted experienced project staff with
high salaries and subsequently the understaffing undermined the project's implementation capacity. In
order to restore the institutional capacity, recover from the damages incurred due to the earthquake, and
achieve the PDO and the physical targets within the project implementation period, the Bank and the
GoAJK agreed to authorize the Project Secretariat (PS) to have a more independent role with the
designated executive authority in project implementation. In addition, the project redeployed key project
staff to headquarters with greater responsibility in decision making. These arrangements were made in the
beginning of 2008 and most of unfinished activities.

Use of Vehicles

2.2.4 The use of project procured vehicles was also identified as a critical issue that caused delays. Of
the 21 vehicles procured under the project, 9 were used for non-project staff while other 6 were used as
part-time for the project by LGRDD staff, who were also responsible in their own normative as well as
project work. In order to meet the shortage of vehicles to be used in the field work, project staff were
given older and unreliable LGRDD-owned vehicles, which required constant maintenance and often broke
down in the field.

Project Preparation under PHRD Grant

2.2.5 The GoAJK received US$ 400,000 from the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD)
Fund for the preparation of the project including preparation of (i) the OM, and (ii) Community Wide
Information and Implementation and (iii) Community and Institutional Development Studies. As a part of
the preparation, the GoAJK also implemented pilot activities with around 45 to 50 CBOs. The work of
community mobilization and infrastructure designs was sub-contracted to a private consulting company.
As per expectation of the PHRD project preparation, the OM including the mitigation measures and
strategies developed in the document were satisfactorily prepared. However, the methodology of
community mobilization and technical designs for CPIs prepared by the company was inappropriate for
the target communities, which created confusions among LGRDD project staff; it took more than one year
to revise the specifications of each infrastructure design at the early stage of the project implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design: Given the inconsistency of key performance indicators and inadequate design of the
means of data collection throughout the PAD, the project revised the key performance indicators as
included in the last Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports at the MTR. However, the data
collection methods remained undefined, and data to measure the achievement of PDO was not properly
followed prior to the ICRR mission. There is an indicator to measure the number of beneficiaries (PDO
indicator 3), for example, the beneficiary data was not readily available during the ICRR mission. In
addition, despite the fact that the project had a clear definition for "functional and active CBOs" for PDO
indicator 2, quality assessment of CBOs through conducting participatory monitoring was rarely
conducted, and therefore, the project was required to design and assess the current situation of CBOs at
the request from the ICRR team. The design of the baseline survey was also insufficient as it focused
mainly on the infrastructure condition and did not cover socio-economic aspects of the communities.



                                                     5
Thus, it was not used in selecting target communities and measuring the impact of the project at the end of
the project.4

2.3.2 Implementation: A participatory and flexible M&E system designed in the PAD and OM, which
was based on the model established in the RWSS project, was not used during the project period. Instead,
the project hired services of a consultant to develop an M&E framework. There was a participatory
reporting format designed by the M&E section for CBOs to fill and send it through the post-service. It has
a unique feature and is simple. However, CBO's participatory reporting data was neither properly
analyzed nor used due to lack of a system to manage the data as well as the shortage of human resources
in the M&E section. A management information system (MIS) was established at the early stage of the
project with the MS-Access database, and a number of staff trained to use the database. However, it was
not made operational due to the lack of facilities and human resources assigned for M&E at the district
level. As a result, the project managed data in excel files, which sometimes created confusion due to the
lack of consistency in data management. In addition, the PAD listed Outcome/impact indicators (see
1.2.4) were rarely referred to during project implementation and only data related to the number of
communities and CI schemes were monitored by the project.

2.3.3 The slow progress in developing the M&E section including assigning personnel at both central
and district/municipal levels affected its quality of M&E operations, as noted in several Aide Memoires of
the Bank missions. The M&E section comprised one deputy director who was recruited in 2004 with a
data entry assistant, who was hired at the final year of the project. Although field staff at the district level
were supposed to help the data collection, there was none assigned to work particularly for M&E
operations at the level. The limited human resources in the M&E section meant that the work assigned to
the deputy director was challenging and overwhelming. He was also tasked to prepare quarterly and
annual progress reports for the project management ­ his capacity was overstretched. In order to overcome
shortfalls of data preparation and analysis, the M&E section was provided with more financial support to
fill the data-gaps through conducting frequent field visits and district level workshops where the
problems/difficulties were identified, discussed and resolved immediately during the final year of the
project. This contributed the improvement of M&E in the final year.

2.3.4 Utilization:       A role of the M&E section to check and alert the management for necessary
actions, which was envisaged in the PAD, was rarely played. Throughout the project period, the project
remained focused on inputs, outputs, and progress monitoring of construction of CPIs, while little
attentions were paid to community-based process monitoring, which are contrary to the design in the
PAD, whose M&E design aimed to serve as a tool for (a) capacity building at the local level; and (b)
project decision makers to use in monitoring project implementation.

2.3.5 Limited development of the M&E platform has not only meant equally limited M&E processes
followed in the project implementation, but also has had a knock- on effect in qualitative assessment of
the project for the ICRR exercise. Thus, the ICRR team had to relay on a lot of anecdotal evidences,
especially the assessment of component 1 and 2.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management

2.4.1 FM Rating, "Satisfactory" at the outset was downgraded to "Moderately Unsatisfactory" in the
aftermath of 2005 earthquake largely due to under staffing which led to weaknesses in the control

4
    It was noted that the baseline-survey report was fully used by the GoAJK and donor agencies to assess
    infrastructure damages of the earthquake.


                                                         6
environment, delays in receipt of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports and late submission of audited
financial statements. The auditors issued three qualified opinions mainly because of non-production of
records. No instance of fraud or corruption arose and audit observations were subsequently cleared.
Despite the adversities in the post-earthquake period, it is noteworthy that these issues were resolved and
the FM arrangements at closing were upgraded to "Moderately Satisfactory". A Financial Information
System Manual was approved by GoAJK's Accountant General and staff was trained. Post-earthquake
problems did not allow computerized accounting system to be made operational.

Procurement

2.4.2 The procedures followed in procurement were in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and as agreed between the GoAJK and the Bank. Comprehensive procurement plans were
prepared, shared with the Bank, and updated on a regular basis. Contract rosters were also prepared and
maintained. The Bank staff carried out prior and ex post review of the procurement process, reviewed and
cleared procurement documents, evaluation processes, negotiations (if any), contract award, and
amendments as per the provisions of the Credit Agreement.

Environmental Management

2.4.3 The project developed its Environmental Management Framework (EMF) during the preparation
stage, in accordance with the Bank's safeguard policies. The EMF included environmental guidelines to
prevent and/or mitigate negative environmental impacts caused by CISP schemes.

2.4.4 The EMF called for appointing an Assistant Director as environmental focal point at the project
level in Muzaffarabad and Environmental Officers at the district level. However, for the initial two years
or so, most of these positions were not filled appropriately. As a result, adequate EMF compliance was not
ensured during this period. The Assistant Director for the environment unit was finally appointed in 2004.
Subsequently, the environmental performance of the project started improving, and the environmental
guidelines were included in the design documents of the CISP schemes. Environmental monitoring was
also initiated, though its coverage was still inadequate since only one Environment Officer was appointed
by the project. Shortage of the environmental staff at the district level was somewhat overcome by
providing environmental trainings to the district staff including community officers. This enabled the
project to undertake comprehensive environmental monitoring of all the CBOs and their schemes,
ensuring that the mitigation measures were adequately implemented at all work sites and no residual
impacts were left un-addressed.

Social Safeguards

2.4.5 The project complied with the Bank's Social Safeguard Policies and there were no major issues
observed.5 The project did not envisage any resettlement and/or impacting indigenous people and cultural
property.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase



5
    There was an isolated example on `involuntary' land donation for street pavement scheme in CBO Ishkiali in Kotli district.
    This was narrated by the CBO during discussions with the ICRR mission's field visits. This issue (CBO was asking for a few
    sq. meters of the right of way that was occupied by a squatter back to be included in the street) was taken to and resolved in a
    judicial court. The case was decided in CBO's favor; nevertheless, the occupant of the land (actually a squatter) was
    voluntarily compensated with another piece of land adjacent to his dwelling by the CBO to assist him in his livelihood.
    However, the issue resulted in delay of scheme completion by 2 years, but it was resolved through a legal procedure.


                                                                 7
2.5.1 The GoAJK is keen and committed to embark upon a follow-on project that builds upon the CISP
experiences. For this purpose, a project concept paper has been prepared and is being processed within the
GoAJK and GoP. Following its clearance by the Central Development Working Party at the federal
government level, the GoAJK expects a formal request to the Bank for assistance in project preparation
and/or to include it in Bank's country portfolio. For the interim period, the GoAJK has approved "Interim
Project" with an outlay of PKR 113 million for the remaining 7 months of FY2009 (December 2008-June
2009). It includes PKR 75 million of CPI-related civil works, PKR 1.4 million for CD, and PKR 36
million for incremental staff and operational costs.

2.5.2 In an effort to improve sustainability, the GoAJK has already launched activities to build CBO's
capacity for O&M including the establishment of O&M accounts and user rules under the interim project.
The GoAJK recognizes the weakness of this aspect in the project and project staff have been tasked to
reinforce CBOs in this aspect. Although outcomes of livelihood support activities were marginal, the
project is still providing technical support for those community groups that have developed income
generation activities (see Component 2 in Annex2).

2.5.3 In order to mainstream project outcomes, the project supported the GoAJK to prepare
"Notification for Formation of Village Organizations", which enables the GoAJK to implement
decentralization policies and procedures established by the project. This policy was approved by the
president of AJK in 2007 and is expected to be widely used in CPI projects (see "Policy and institutional
framework for decentralization" in Section 3.2).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives

3.1.1 The project objectives remain highly relevant to the development priorities of Pakistan and AJK.
Even after the completion of CISP in particular, there are still great needs to improve basic infrastructures
and lack of them in rural communities is likely to hamper the improvement of livelihood and economic
activities in AJK. Community development in both development of community organizations and
improvement of livelihoods especially through income generation activities with a focus on women is still
on the top agenda in Pakistan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2004).

Relevance of Design

3.1.2 Overall, the project design is still sound. The key elements of design and their relevancies as well
as some issues discussed with the project staff during the ICRR mission are as follows:

             ·    Provision of infrastructure upgrading and services through decentralized planning
                  and implementation: Relevant.
             ·    Institutional development at the community level and the GoAJK: Relevant. CD
                  activities including HESA and livelihood support activities can be out-sourced to NGOs
                  (see Lessons Learned section), which was also suggested in the PAD, but the project did
                  not apply.
             ·    20% upfront cash contribution from the communities for CPIs: Relevant. There is an
                  argument that it was ambitious, even among people who involved in the project
                  preparation. However, all communities contributed 20%, or more, of capital cost. Cost
                  sharing is considered to be the key for increasing communities' sense of ownership as
                  well as ensuring sustainability for their own CPIs (see Lessons Learned section).


                                                      8
             ·   Mainstreaming the project into the line department: Relevant. It is still important to
                 reinforce the GoAJK institutional capacity thorough implementing projects. However,
                 the appropriateness of having the LGRDD secretary serving double roles as the head of
                 the department and the project director remained debatable. It is important to note that
                 the completion of all physical targets in component 3 would have been difficult if the
                 project continued to maintain the original implementation arrangement. An
                 implementation arrangement with a PS with designated executive responsibility
                 composed of line-department staff was suggested by project staff and key policy makers
                 in discussions with the ICRR team (see Lessons Learned Section).

Relevance of Implementation

3.1.3 The implementation processes which emphasised the importance of decentralization process
through empowering CBOs and reinforcing institutional capacities at the GoAJK to support such
processes adopted by the project are still considered to be relevant. However, two key issues needed to be
addressed in the actual implementation, which were also envisioned in the PAD and the OM:
              · Emphasis on process in community mobilization ­ the project needed to underline not
                  only delivering tangible inputs and outputs, but also community mobilizers' quality
                  interactions with CBOs with a more focus on capacity development through
                  implementing CPI schemes and participatory monitoring.
              · Development of an appropriate M&E system that could ensure timely interventions and
                  decision making both at the district and central levels.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective

Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.1 The achievement of PDO was satisfactory, as the project achieved its primary development
objective of delivering cost effective and sustainable community development programmes and basic
infrastructure services to under-served rural and urban and peri-urban communities in AJK with minor
shortcoming in attaining the number of sustainable CBOs.

3.2.2 The ICRR team carried out a cost effective analysis to compare CISP's CPI scheme costs with
GoAJK's Public Works Department (PWD) keeping in view the same specification, location and time
period for the Muzaffarabad area. The result shows that the differences in the average cost were 20% less
in CISP's works in FY2007 and a similar comparison for FY2008 was calculated at 19% less (see
Component 3 in Annex 2). This analysis shows that implementation under CISP was more cost effective.
In addition, anecdotal evidence to identify other types of benefits was also gathered during the ICRR's
field trip as well as at stakeholder meetings conducted by the team. The ICRR considers that the time
saving factor for the access to safe water, health, education facilities and economic activities as well as
improvement of hygienic aspects have contributed to enhancement of livelihood opportunities, especially
for women who are frequent users of these CPIs.

3.2.3 In addition to tangible benefits acquired from CPIs, the ICRR considers that the implementation
of CPI schemes played a supplemental role for the underperformance of CD activities, especially in
project's shortcoming in delivering training to communities and GoAJK staff. Key elements in promoting
sustainable development are indeed embedded in the implementation of CPI schemes, which required not
only delivering cost effective infrastructure services, but also empowered community local institutions.
Those key elements include: (i) securing 20% upfront cash contribution even from poor households, (ii)
acquiring donation of lands for CPIs, (iii) building consensus among community members in preparing
CAP, (iv) implementing and managing CPI schemes, (v) managing conflicts, (vi) adjusting infrastructure


                                                     9
designs according to available land, and (vii) implementing EMF, all of which played equally important
role for empowering community members and project staff. These elements were not systematically
developed in the target communities due to the lack of training, but coherency and traditionally
established local organizations already available in the area also appeared to help to overcome the
shortcomings of CD activities.

3.2.4 In addition to the primary objective, the ICRR mission considers that each of PDO's three key
areas to be assessed by the PDO indicators is interdependent and approximately equal in weight in
contributing to overall outcome. Project's achievement according to the PDO indicators is described and
summarized as follows:

        (1) Policy and institutional framework for decentralization:       Satisfactory
(        2) Functional and active CBOs: Mo                                    derately Satisfactory
        (3) Outreaches of community development and infrastructure:        Satisfactory

Policy and institutional framework for decentralization

3.2.5 The project was instrumental to create awareness for efficient governance through establishing
decentralized institutional policies in AJK. As an outcome of the project, "Notification for formation of
Village Organizations", which is considered as a milestone to adopt CISP's community mobilization
policies in AJK's other projects and departments' community development activities. This policy also
played a key role for the government to approve the Interim Project (as a spring board to a follow-on
CISP) to further institutionalize efforts made by the project. The implementation of this project indicates
that the GoAJK is now able to implement the decentralized policy without Bank's support albeit small
scale.

3.2.6 The project by and large fulfilled the requirement of enhancing institutional framework. The
project successfully installed in the GoAJK an accountable and transparent mechanism which allowed
decentralized financial and budgeting procedures as well as community-based procurement in
implementing CPI schemes. As a result, the project completed a total of 3,426 CPI schemes both at rural
and municipal under CBO management and a total of US$ 23.88 million was disbursed based on the
decentralized planning and the accountable and transparent procedures. The completion of this large
number of CPI schemes also indicates that the project enhanced GoAJK's staff including municipal and
district level officers in identifying community needs, preparing and approving CAPs, managing CPIs,
and implementing decentralized CD programme. These measures suggest that the project fulfilled the
requirement of PDO Indicator 1.

Functional and active CBOs

3.2.7 The project formed and registered 545 CBOs by the end of the project against the anticipated
target of 425 CBOs. The project achieved the target by the first quarter of 2005 (before the earthquake),
while formation of additional CBOs continued until the end of the project with the interval of one year
during 2007.

3.2.8. The project achieved considerable results in terms of building CBOs' capacity in implementing
CPIs. Due to lack of participatory monitoring data, it is unable to determine whether the project achieved
PDO Indicator 2 with the actual assessment of CBOs. However, the successful completion of CPI schemes
itself suggests that CBOs formed under the project were able to manage community organizations,
implement CPIs, and ensure transparent community-based procurement and accounting; all of which are
in accordance with CISP's definition for "functional and operational CBOs." Therefore, it is fair to
assume that the majority of CBOs were "fully functional and active" at least soon after the completion of


                                                     10
CPIs' implementation period. ICRR mission's field visits also confirmed that quality of construction
works undertaken by the communities is high, which suggests that the requirement of Indicator 2 was
largely achieved..

3.2.9 As simple technologies were employed in the CPIs and community members themselves
participated in the constructions, it is expected that the majority of CBOs have been equipped with
capacity to maintain their own infrastructures. In addition, an ex-post CBO sustainability analysis6
conducted by the project for all CBOs at the request from the ICRR team confirms that more than 85% or
close to 400 out of 457 CBOs are considered to be sustainable based on the score attained in the analysis.
These 400 CBOs are likely have capacity for establishing operation and maintenance (O&M) mechanism
including the establishment of O&M accounts for CPIs as envisaged in the PAD. However, there are some
60 CBOs that have already shown problems in sustaining CBO organizations. In terms of future
maintenance which usually requires sustainable CBOs for daily operation, in particular DWSSs, which
necessitate constant protection of water sources and repair of pipes and taps, there was a slight shortfall in
attaining the physical target for Indicator 2, which was set 425 CBOs.7

                                   Table 1. CBO Sustainability Assessment
         No                 Category                 No of CBOs         %                Remarks
          1     Highly Sustainable CBOs                   82           17.9      with points >=80
          2     Sustainable CBOs                         126           27.6      with points >=70 & <80
          3     Moderately Sustainable CBOs              120           26.3      with points >=60 & <70
          4     Likely Sustainable CBOs                   68           14.9      with points >=50 & <60
          5     Unsustainable CBOs                        61           13.3      with points <50
                          Total                          457           100.0



3.2.10 As analyzed in Annex 2, many of capacity development trainings were given toward the end of
the project. Linking CBOs as well as community members to other organizations that provide livelihood
support programs including micro-credits were rarely implemented. While the number of participants in
HESA training before FY2008 was only 22 persons, for example, it jumped to 4,750 persons in FY2008.
The figure of training for SWC sub-component followed the same trend; the project trained approximately
1,000 persons in FY2008, while none was given before the period. Generally, the process and outcomes of
developing CBO capacity would require a long period of time, and such process needs to be enhanced
through participatory monitoring as envisioned in the PAD and the OM. The ICRR recognizes that the
project indeed delivered key training in HESA and SWC during the last year, but the timing of these
training was not properly coordinated considering the level of CBO development processes, which are
usually monitored and assessed through participatory monitoring.8 The project had three years before the
earthquake, and therefore, it was possible for the project to focus on these sub-component activities, but
CD, especially the livelihood support aspect through implementing HESA and SWC activities, remained
weak throughout the project implementation period, which was also underscored in the MTR.
Unfortunately, before HESA and SWC activities gained momentum, the earthquake disrupted completely

6
    Analysis of CBOs was carried out according to CISP's functional and operational criteria which include "Funds
    Collection", "O&M Mechanism", "Infrastructure Schemes Maintenance", "Meetings of CBOs & Issuance of
    Minutes", "Links with other Govt. or Non Govt. Organizations", "Futuristic Approach (preparation of
    community development plans, fund raising, initiatives to approach other organizations)", "Cluster
    Approach/Gender Mainstreaming".
7
    As mentioned in 2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase, the project has started to build further capacity of
    CBOs in the O&M aspect.
8
    The delivery of these training was far below the target. See Component 2 in Annex 2.


                                                        11
processes of CD. It is also noted that an international level technical assistance for CD planned in the PAD
was not used by the project, which may also have contributed to weak implementation of the CD program.

3.2.11 As mentioned, the implementation of CPI schemes had a role in enhancing community
development. It is considered, however, that weakness of CD activities contributed to undermine the
process of developing CBOs, which reflected the overall sustainability of CBOs.

Outreaches of community development and infrastructure

3.2.12 The project implemented a total of 3,426 schemes during the project period as detailed in Table 4.
Various schemes were implemented by 457 CBOs in 8 Districts of AJK. In total, these interventions
benefited 141,010 HHs with more than one million people, of which over 50% were estimated female
beneficiaries based on the population census data.

                            Table 2. CPIs in Rural and Urban/Peri Urban areas
                                  CPIs implemented                     Total cost
           Type             Rural      Urban       Total     Rural      Urban         Total
                           No   %    No     %    No     % PKR (m) % PKR (m) % PKR (m) %
  Water Supply             810 29.5 27 4.0 837 24.4 636.17 43.6        16.89 7.3    653.1 38.6
  Community Latrines       266 9.7 31 4.6 297 8.7           26.16 1.8   2.96 1.3     29.1 1.7
  Storm Water Drainage      61 2.2 25 3.7          86 2.5   25.68 1.8   9.93 4.3     35.6 2.1
  Internal Pathways       1006 36.6 53 7.8 1059 30.9 515.22 35.3       26.25 11.3   541.5 32.0
  Bridges                   42 1.5      2 0.3      44 1.3   11.35 0.8   1.27 0.5     12.6 0.7
  Street pavement          508 18.5 495 72.8 1003 29.3 208.89 14.3 158.84 68.5      367.7 21.8
  Street Lights              1 0.0      6 0.9       7 0.2    0.23 0.0   1.32 0.6      1.5 0.1
  Solid Waste                0 0.0      2 0.3       2 0.1       0 0.0   0.21 0.1      0.2 0.0
  Others                    52 1.9 39 5.7          91 2.7   34.97 2.4  14.19 6.1     49.2 2.9
  Total                   2746 100.0 680 100.0 3426 100.0 1458.7 100.0 231.9 100.0 1690.5 100.0


3.2.13 Construction as well as completion of schemes were delayed and affected mainly by (i) the
revision of CPI designs prepared during the PHRD funded project preparation; (ii) the earthquake, (iii)
understaffing; and (iv) lack of staff mobility (see 2.2 Implementation). As a result, more than half of all
schemes were completed during the last 10 months. In addition, physical targets for training were also
hurriedly conducted during the last year and collaboration to work with other organization to support
livelihood of rural communities were weakly implemented.

3.2.14 The total beneficiaries in rural areas are estimated at more than 850,000 against the target of
680,000 required for Indicator 3. These beneficiaries are generally members of households involved in the
CPI schemes with some sort of contribution including cash and/or labour. It is estimated around 119,000
households participated in the CPI schemes. The beneficiary population in urban/peri urban areas is
estimated at around 170,000 against the envisaged target figure of 150,000. Likewise, the number of
households in urban/peri urban is approximately 24,200. These figures confirm that the project fulfilled
the requirement of PDO Indicator 3 which aimed to measure the extent of project beneficiaries.


3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 An ex-post analysis of the CPI schemes has been undertaken based on the input costs and benefits.
The input costs relate to construction and maintenance costs, and the benefits stem from savings in vehicle
operating costs and lesser travel time, opening up of areas for economic activity, lower medical costs



                                                     12
attributed to better hygienic environment, and productive use of saved time. An analysis was made for
each selected scheme and results computed by using aggregated weights based on investment for each
type of scheme. The results indicate that the investments were economically viable for all schemes, with
an overall EIRR of 21.5%, which ranged from 19.6% to 26.1% for different kinds of infrastructure
investments.

3.3.2 Pathways and street pavements were the foremost demand of communities followed by drinking
water supply schemes (DWSS). Foot bridges were also demanded especially where the schools were on
one side of the `nullah'9 and children have to frequently cross the `nullahs'. It was also observed that the
pathways constructed under the CPI scheme were intensively used by both community and non-
community members with bicycles and motorcycles which generated substantial user benefits. The
demand for community latrines and solid waste management was at the tail end of prioritized demand
lists. The project has covered a small proportion of settlements and demand for interventions like water
supply and roads/street pavements is high. The NPV (US$ 50,000) from this limited investment and EIRR
(21.5%) suggest that the implementation of schemes was economically efficient.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 Despite the fact that the project suffered greatly from early delays and set-backs incurred by the
earthquake, the project by and large achieved its primary development objective. The PDO continues to be
highly relevant under GoAJK's as well as GoP's current development priorities. The project also achieved
an overall EIRR of 21.5%, which is higher than the cut-off rate of 15% used to assess project viability in
the PAD as well as by the GoP Planning Commission.

3.4.2 As explained in Section 2.2 Implementation, the project suffered especially from frequent turn-
over of the project director, under-staffing, misallocation of vehicles, and the lack of an effective M&E
system, as well as inappropriate delivery timing of HESA and SWC activities. Nevertheless, the project
fulfilled all PDO indicators except some shortcomings in attaining sustainable CBOs with the two year
extension. Although not entirely successful as far as CD is concerned, it is obvious that basic livelihood of
rural poor and vulnerable, especially women, has been improved with basic infrastructures, and CBOs
proved their capacity to organize communities to execute CPI schemes successfully. In addition, 20% or
more community contribution from more than 130,000 households should be highlighted, given the fact
that the majority of communities are considered to be poor.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts

3.5.1 There is no poverty related baseline data available in AJK nor for the project that would have
helped in assessing the impact of the project interventions on poverty. The CPI schemes implemented
under the project addressed local needs and ensured access of local communities to social and economic
services. The DWSS, for example, has not only ensured generally safer and cleaner drinking water for
households but has also helped to save women's time in fetching water. Street pavements and bridges
have ensured easier access of local people to social, economic and other opportunities such as marketing


9
    Nullah means creek, waterway in steeply topography, seasonal river, a riverlet or similar.


                                                          13
as well as reduced prices of goods due to the better access. It is likely also that infrastructure schemes
have contributed to increased disposable income levels of local communities.

Gender Aspects

3.5.2 The project made efforts to mainstream gender in its intervention by including women in decision
making roles in CBOs and respond to their needs in infrastructure schemes through ensuring all CBOs
have at least two to three female members. The DWSS and street pavement schemes were most popular
among women because it reduced workloads of women in fetching water, and street pavements would
help clothes keep clean; this implies less time for washing clothes. In addition, the project has undertaken
a number of capacity building trainings for women. These include skill trainings under SWC sub-
component whereby approximately 1,000 women participated.

Social Development

3.5.3 The project carried out social mobilization in AJK and formed 545 CBOs. This has served as the
foundation for social and institutional development of local communities. All schemes are identified by
local communities through consultative processes. As noted in section 2.2, however, the CD process
undertaken by the project remained weak for enhancing capacity of the CBOs in O&M and livelihood
activities through providing income generation related training and linking participants with other
organizations active in the areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.4 The CISP approach demonstrated by the project is well appreciated by LGRDD and other
institutions such as Kashmir Council. Under the legal framework provided by the 2007 Notification for
the formation of Village Organizations, the GoAJK has started adopting community participation and
community contribution as part of its community development approach. This indicates that the
decentralized approach developed by the project with focus on community participation has become a
more regular practice among various government department of the GoAJK.

3.5.5 The receptivity shown by the rural communities to participate in the CISP programs and to get
organized at the grassroots level (settlements and mohallas10) gives very positive signals that gender
disaggregated sub-CBOs can be a powerful tool for many broad ranged future interventions to address the
issues of social exclusion, youth disciplines, and social protection. It is also noticeable that there is
willingness of community members to form, for example, self-help groups, undertake micro-enterprises
and have more appetite for acquiring skills that could enhance income of the households through
collective and cooperative actions.

(c) Other unintended outcomes

3.5.6 The project resulted in reducing risks of sickness, due to unhygienic water supply, and accidents
and injuries caused earlier by rudimentary and inadequate infrastructures that existed before the project.
This was particularly noticed in the steep hilly areas where paved footpaths and improved streets have
reduced such risks.

3.5.7 The project interventions have empowered people in remoter rural and semi-urban marginalized
areas with better health and environmental sanitation awareness through HESA, in a bid to improve their
living conditions, better and cleaner households, and surrounding environments.

10
     A mohalla is a term to describe a neighborhood or locality in a village or town of Pakistan.


                                                           14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

4.1      There are two levels of potential risks that have to be taken into account, which include (i)
GoAJK's commitment for continuing the decentralization approach/procedures established in the project;
and (ii) maintenance of community infrastructures.

4.2      Decentralization: A potential risk to the institutional development outcomes of the GoAJK is
whether or not it can maintain the momentum created by the project for decentralization processes.
Decentralization processes which formed the central pillar for the project design were successfully
implemented within the project framework. The approval of 2007 notification proved its value and it can
serves foundation of accountable and transparent decentralization procedures developed by the project.
However, its impact to reform the GoAJK for decentralization as a whole has yet to be fully realized. For
example, community-based procurement can be applied in donor funded projects, but this mechanism has
yet to be tried in the regular civil works carried out by GoAJK's PWD. It requires further political will to
mainstream in other departments and fully utilize the value demonstrated by accountable and transparent
decentralization procedures developed by the project.

4.3      Infrastructure Maintenance: The majority of community infrastructure was constructed by
community labour with simple and low cost technologies. It was assessed that only the DWSS require
constant maintenance. However, the majority of DWSS uses springs and gravity, and therefore, does not
involve maintenance of pumps, which requires little recurrent/operational costs. Therefore, the issue of
infrastructure maintenance is considered marginal. In addition, the infrastructures built with CISP provide
fundamental services for the communities and benefits derived from such basic infrastructures are
indispensable, and therefore, even their maintenance requires additional resources, it is anticipated that
local people can afford to contribute. However, O&M account, which is provisioned in the PAD was not
yet active in majority of CBOs because more than half of all schemes had been recently completed, and
maintenance needs have not yet been fully recognized by the communities. This appears to be a risk,
especially for DWSSs which still require constant maintenance and protection measures at water sources.
Recognizing this weak O&M aspect, the GoAJK has started providing further support with its own
budget with an aim to reduce this recognized risk (see 2.5 Post Completion Operation/Next Phase).


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:

5.1.1 Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Sound project preparation and
overall design with well focused participatory community development are noted. The PAD was well
translated into the OM and mitigation measures suggested in the OM were implementable. Albeit not an
entirely weak point of the design, the PAD could have paid more attention to the indicators and measures
to collect data, which constituted to weak M&E performance during the project implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):



                                                     15
5.1.2 Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The quality of Bank supervision has been conducted
regularly. It also provided sound recommendations as shown in Aide Memoires. Bank's response to the
earthquake was swift and the Task Team worked hard to put the project back on track after a hiatus of
project implementation activities for two years. The Bank did take a serious note of the project
implementing agency's request to allow the PS to have more responsibilities in implementation and
facilitated the PS to have full control over the financial and administrative as well as technical
responsibilities.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance:

5.2.1 The Government performance is rated satisfactory. It provided counterpart funds and released the
funds as required in a timely manner. The government demonstrated and is still committed to support the
project. The Notification approved by the AJK president as well as GoAJK's approval of an outlay of
PKR 113 million for the remaining 7 months of FY2009 (December 2008-June 2009) indicates the
GoAJK's continuing commitment.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

5.2.2 Implementing agency performance is rated as moderately satisfactory despite the fact that the
whole implementation processes were completely disrupted by the earthquake, the implementing agency
demonstrated its resilience to come back from damages incurred by the earthquake, completed more than
3,400 schemes and achieved the project's PDO.

5.2.3 On the other hand, its slow start prior to the earthquake, and project management failed to show
clear direction for the project staff at the early stage and to reinforce the project by recruiting new staff,
especially in the field of M&E and environment. Frequent changes of project director and slow
deployment of LGRDD staff to resolve the understaffing situation created unnecessary delays in
implementation. The project spent only a half of the project budget before the earthquake disrupted the
project, which was approximately at three quarters of the total project period. While the project exceeded
physical targets in the CBO formation, some quality inputs were not provided to the key area of CD,
especially implementing training for community mobilization and capacity building, HESA and SWC;
these were supposed to be implemented as the part of community mobilization processes before
implementing CPIs. Weak implementation of CD was also linked to weak technical support to the front-
line community organization staff. Anecdotal evidence, including interviews with these staff show that
they were often not well equipped with upfront training nor provided with needed mobility, resulting in
their irregular visits to communities and inappropriate steps taken to organize communities at the
grassroots levels. An effective M&E platform that could have facilitated timely decision making for the
various tiers of local governments including district, tehsil and union councils was not fully developed due
to the lack of human resources at all levels. Despite several reminders by the Bank supervision missions,
qualified field staff for M&E at the district level were not assigned.


6. Lessons Learned

6.1         Community participation through financial/labour contribution from members, and
capacity building in terms of financial management, procurement and skill development ensures
ownership of CPIs: The responsibility of CPI implementation was clearly vested in CBOs and this
enhanced CBOs' institutional capacity. Immediate tangible outputs of CPIs including labour opportunities


                                                     16
encouraged community members' participation in planning, financial management, procurement, project
management, and decision making. Professionally developed training materials may be used for capacity
building.

6.2         Community contribution requires more flexible approaches : The level of amount of
community share needs to be revisited. In the light of a number of donor agencies operational in similar
conditions with variable rates of community contributions, it is important to take into account different
level of poverty and harsher living conditions in very remote areas.

6.3          Designated Executive Authority at Project Secretariat composed of line department staff
members would ensure both smooth implementation and mainstreaming project activities into the line
department: The project design focused on capacity development of LGRDD through integrating project
activities with LGRDD's normative activities with an aim to mainstream project's decentralization policy
at the GoAJK. This particular institutional arrangement caused several difficulties including weak
commitment of LGRDD managers in the project implementation due to time constraints for their
normative works, allocation of vehicles for field activities, and others mentioned in Section 2.2
Implementation. As a result, project activities suffered from delays. The ICRR acknowledges the
importance of mainstreaming the project activities into line departments, but pros and cons of this strategy
have to be analyzed.11

6.4         Gender focus through strengthening separate male and female COs: In order ensure
women's involvement at CBOs' decision making processes, any new project in AJK needs to consider
formation of separate male and female sub-CBO organizations at the initial stage wherein women's
representation could be ensured. Then sub-CBOs should be federated as CBOs as apex level organizations
which will develop overarching capacities in planning, implementation and monitoring. CPIs with more
public good elements needed to be initiated only after comprehensive social mobilization has been
undertaken by CBOs.

6.5     Outsourcing Social Mobilization and Community Development is a viable option to complement
weakness of GoAJK capacity in implementing softer component : Integrated community development is
not considered a strength of LGRDD, which has limited expertise in this aspect. Any new community-
based project in the GoAJK needs to consider out-sourcing the social mobilization and community
development component to well reputed service providers in the NGO and civil society sectors with
credible track record in these fields. However, it is essential to orient service providers on project concept
and approach prior to further delivering their services to the community level.

6.6     Setting up community selection criteria through poverty assessment is key to reach poor: Well
developed, clear and more transparent criteria for the selection of union councils within the districts were
not clearly stipulated in the project. The selection criteria should consider factors including poverty,
remoteness, number and type of development interventions undertaken by other developmental
organizations in the village, along with willingness of local communities to participate in the project
interventions. Poverty assessment must be carried out at the onset of the project for the community
selection.

6.7      Development of M&E framework with clear indicators ensures timely project intervention as
well as identification of issues to be resolved: Basics to set up a clear M&E framework and baseline
indicators at the onset of the project needs to be emphasised in a project of this size. It would help in the

11
     There was a discussion during the ICR mission that PS should be staffed by line government staff with
     designated executive authority, which permits capacity building of government staff and coherence between
     government's development policy and key concept of the project as well as smooth implementation.


                                                         17
assessment of qualitative and quantitative outcomes and impact of the project. Community-based process
monitoring would also contribute towards the improvement of project's decision in timing and types of
intervention.

6.8      Coordination and experience and system sharing among similar projects in the country would
improve implementation of projects: The Bank should ensure that lessons learned and systems developed
in other similar projects in the country are well shared and keep on feeding information of other projects
to project implementers, e.g. through experience sharing field visits that would be more cost effective than
sending project staff abroad. Although experiences of CIP in NWFP were introduced during the
preparation of the project, majority of the current staff members who joined the project after the
preparation, did not have chance to visit similar projects in country. It is important that experiences of
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund, for example, could be shared with similar community-based projects.
In addition, implementation methods as well as use of social score cards and database developed in similar
projects need to be shared for smooth project inception.

6.9     Internal Audit, on a regular basis, considerably enhances the control environment and
contributes to effective governance. It is essential that the activity is conducted regularly to ensure
achievement of the desired objectives.




                                                     18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

The comments from the AJK-CISP Project Management on ICRR are as follows:

   1) After earthquake in 2005, the beneficiary communities were displaced/disintegrated largely and
      took more than one year to come back to the original location/position. Moreover reconstruction
      of houses was the top priority of the communities after earthquake, which was major hurdle in the
      progress of the project.

   2) Section 2.3 In last one and half year M&E section regularly prepared the Work plans, and
      monitored the progress of the project, M&E section also conducted a series of review
      workshops/meetings to find out the problems/hurdles and presented recommendations to the
      higher management and government (e.g. increase in financial powers i.e. decentralization, to
      conduct activities for training of CBOs, Hiring of CD consultant, transfer and appointment of staff
      etc.) This activity was a stimulator and main factor to gear up the progress of the project up to a
      maximum level. All these documents (work plans, reports, minutes of review
      workshops/meetings, procurement plans, Quarterly progress Reports, Graphs and Table Data)
      were shared with the ICRR mission but not reported in the report.

   3) Section 6.5 : Project experienced the outsourcing social mobilization and community development
      component thrice in the project period but this approach resulted as delay in implementation.
      Before earthquake the project hired services of three different firms/individuals (NESPAK, IDC,
      Abdul Hameed Khan-CD Specialist) for social mobilization and community development. Non of
      the firms/individual completed task as per given specifications/standards and time. This resulted
      as delay in implementation in the early years of the project. Later on the task was taken up by
      project employed CD staff and was completed well in time. The project employed CD staff is well
      experienced and can be utilized effectively by providing more resources (i.e. mobility and
      trainings). However the activities for strengthening of CBOs were outsourced and completed
      successfully.

   4) Section 2.2.3 CISP was the first project in AJK in which gender mainstreaming was introduced,
      and women were involved in development activities. The response is encouraging but needs more
      attention.

   5) Improvement in environmental conditions due to construction of streets, sewerage schemes is and
      improvement of rural roads/pathways (i.e. soil erosion, sanitation, drainage) is not highlighted in
      the report.




                                                   19
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal          Revised     Actual/Latest    Percentage
        Components                Estimate          Estimate       Estimate           of
                                (US$ millions)    (US$ millions) (US$ millions)   Appraisal
1. Decentralized Planning And
                                    2.78               4.57           5.72 190
Implementation Assistance
2. Community Development            1.93 1.66                         0.88           44
3. Community Infrastructure
                                    18.96 24.99                      23.88           141
& Services
          Total Baseline Cost       23.67 31.22                      32.84           139
Physical Contingencies              0.96                      -        -              -
Price Contingencies                 2.54                      -        -              -
          Total Project Costs       27.17 31.23                      32.84           121
Front-end fee PPF                   0.00                      -        -              -
Front-end fee IBRD                  0.00                      -        -              -
    Total Financing Required        27.17 31.23                      32.84           121

(b) Financing
                                  Appraisal          Revised     Actual/Latest    Percentage
      Source of Funds             Estimate          Estimate       Estimate           of
                                (US$ millions)    (US$ millions) (US$ millions)   Appraisal
Borrower 3.80                                         4.03           6.08            159
Local Communities                   3.35              3.25           4.14            124
International Development
                                    20.00 23.94                      22.62           113
Association (IDA)




                                                  20
                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Decentralized Planning and Implementation Assistance (Estimate US$ 3.08 million;
Actual: US$ 5.72)

1.1 Decentralized Policy Development

1.1.1 Policy and institutional framework was formally approved by the Project Steering Committee
(PSC) in March 2003, which enabled the project to execute decentralized CPIs at the district, union
council and community levels, and its various policy elements were implemented in the subsequent years.
Anecdotal evidences gathered during the field visits of the ICRR mission confirmed that the decentralized
policies were effectively implemented, and communities were involved in the project promotion,
identification of community needs for CPIs, and planning as well as community-based procurement,
accounting, and CPI scheme implementation and monitoring. These findings confirm that the project
fulfilled the requirement of Intermediate Outcome (IO) Indicator 1 and 2, which required: (i)
establishment of institutional framework; and (ii) implementation of CPIs in a decentralized manner.
Recognizing successful implementation of the CPI schemes at the community level, the GoAJK
subsequently approved a "notification for formation of Village Organizations" in 2007. This is a major
outcome of the project, which demonstrates that the GoAJK is further adopting CISP's community
mobilization policies in other projects and departments' community development activities in AJK. This
also supports that the requirement of PDO Indicator 1 has been fulfilled.


1.2 Capacity Development

1.2.1 Capacity Building            Albeit with minor shortcomings in staff's capacity development required
for CD activities, the mission recognizes that institutional capacity for decentralized planning, and
implementation of various activities was built sufficiently enough for implementing CPI schemes. The
successful completion of CPIs throughout AJK itself suggests that they had capacity to implement the
scheme. The ICRR mission recognizes that staff's capacity was largely developed through (i) learning
from implementing CPIs, (ii) recruiting experienced individuals as project staff who provided on-the-job
training; (iii) providing ad-hoc staff training; and (iv) getting technical assistance from local consultants.
These inputs also helped creating awareness for the importance and effectiveness of decentralized
institutional environment in the GoAJK.

1.2.2 Staff Training The project organized training including foreign trips. Capacity development was
carried out on periodic basis. As a result, a total of more than 2,100 government and project staff members
with 80 events were trained under the overall training window of the component. The themes of the
training varied broadly including participatory methods, social mobilization, process monitoring,
financial, procurement, water testing training and natural resources use. It should be pointed out, however,
that most of the trainings, which aimed to develop decentralized institutional capacities for broadening
outlooks of trainees on various development approaches and enhancing skills, were conducted late in the
implementation period. Therefore, impacts of training on actual field/work performance appeared to be
marginal.

1.2.3 Technical Assistance The project used services of local consultants/firms in the technical
assistance (TA) category of the this component. As shown in the table below, a total of thirteen different
kinds of inputs were used for a total of around 121 person months as against the 58 person-months
provided for in the PAD. Water Quality Testing and Baseline Survey were conducted as a part of TA,
which were envisaged as separate Studies in the PAD. It should also be noted that the provision of 6


                                                      21
person-months of an international CD specialists were not used; instead, local experts were recruited for
approximately 30 months in three phases. In terms of budget including the two studies, a total of PKR 59
million (US$ 900,000) was used for TA, which was more than the provision of PAD, which estimated
around PKR 32 million or US$ 494,000. Actual expenditure of TA was approximately twice of the
original estimate.

                                                 Table 1. Technical Assistance inputs
                                                                                                              Sectoral Summary
         Sector              Consultants' Specialty        pers-months   %     Amount (PKR)    %     Person           Amount
                                                                                                                %                  %
                                                                                                     Months           (PKR)
                        Procurement Assistance                     12    10       1,115,529     2
                        Translation of OM                           6     5         134,229     0
          DCPI          Prep'n & Impl'n (Training) / HRD           20    16       10,553,960   18        48      40   14,044,117   24
                        MIS/M&E development                         8     6        1,165,399    2
                        Website Development                         3     3        1,075,000    2
                        Service Provider Urban                      8     6       11,935,515   20
                        Community Dev. Specialist                  18    15        1,081,640    2
    Community       Community Development                           7     5        2,254,760    4        50      41   25,993,815   44
Development / Works
                    Training of HESA                               12    10        9,619,500   16
                        Planning & Execution of SWCI**
                                                                    6     5        1,102,400    2
                        Training (CD)
                        WQMS* & Database                            4     3       11,752,700   20
     Studies/ Surveys   Baseline Survey                            16    13        4,662,382    8        23      19   19,400,482   33

                        End Project Evaluation                      3     3        2,985,400    5
                           Total                                  121    100      59,438,414   100     121     100    59,438,414   100
Note: * Support to Women & Children Initiative, **Water Quality Monitoring Surveillance


1.3 Baseline and Water Quality Testing

1.3.1 The amount allocated for the baseline survey and water quality testing were disbursed almost as
planned, but the timing of these studies was inappropriate. The report of baseline survey that contains
useful information for planning the CISP investment was made available in late 2005, which was after the
mid-term review.12 The design of the baseline survey was also insufficient as it focused mainly on the
infrastructure condition, and yet did not cover socio-economic aspects of the communities. Thus, it was
not used in measuring the impact of the project at the end of the CISP as well as in selecting target
communities. The Water Quality Monitoring Surveillance and Development of Database were launched in
August 2008, which was just three months before the project closure. Therefore, these studies had limited
value for the implementation of the project. It is however fair to mention that the project started the
preparatory processes of these activities before 2005, but the earthquake disrupted the process and took
sometime to resume the activity. These systems water quality monitoring are now in place in the GoAJK,
and the government is committed to use the systems with its own resources with some supports from other
donor agencies.




12
     The baseline-survey report was however fully used by the GoAJK and donor agencies to assess infrastructure
      damages of the earthquake.


                                                                    22
Component 2: Community Development (Estimate: US$ 2.133 million; Actual: US$ 880,000)

2.1 Community mobilization and capacity building activities

2.1.1 Community Mobilization and selection                  Community mobilization was conducted with
state-wide promotional campaigns through newspaper advertisements. Upon receiving applications from
communities, project's priority was given to those communities which demonstrated a willingness to (i)
share 20% of the total capital costs; and (ii) voluntarily donate lands necessary for the construction of
infrastructures. By and large, community mobilization as well as their selection was carried out following
the guidelines set in the OM. However, due to the lack of poverty assessment of communities, as this was
not envisioned in the PAD nor in the OM, priorities were not entirely given to poor communities. The
ICRR team noted through interviews with project staff and CBOs that occasionally communities were
introduced by political influences.

2.1.2 The project formed and registered 545 CBOs by the end of the project against the anticipated
target of 425. This fulfils the requirement of IO Indicator 3. In fact, the project achieved this target by the
first quarter of 2005 (before the earthquake), while formation of additional CBOs continued until about
the end of the project with the interval of one year during 2007. The project also assisted CBOs in
preparing CAPs in all 545 CBOs. However, only a total of 457 CBOs singed MOAs to implement CPI
schemes. The main reason for the gap of 88 CBO which did prepare CAPs but not implemented CPI
schemes was due to the fund shortage in Component 3 toward the end of the project. By the end of 2007,
the total number of CBOs with MOAs was 320, while 137 CBOs or 30% of the total CBOs with MOA
were added during the final year of the project (see Figure 1).

                                        Figure 1. Number of MOA signed
                                       500
                                                                                       425 425 425 425 425 425 425 425 425 425 425 425
                                       450                                       400
                                                                           369                                                               457
                                       400
                                                                                                                                       415
                                       350                           296                                                         401
                                                                                                                           384
                                       300
                                                               234                                               320 320
                                       250                                                   302 305 305 308 309
                                                         192                           284
                                                                           269 269
                                       200         150               245
                                             120               218
                                       150               192
                                                   159
                                       100
                                             120
                                        50
                                         0
                                         -D 4




                                         -D 5




                                         -D 6




                                         -D 7




                                         -O 8
                                         l-S 4




                                                  5




                                         l-S 6




                                         l-S 7




                                                  8
                                      n- 04
                                      pr 05




                                      n- 05
                                      pr 06




                                      n- 06

                                      pr 07




                                      n- 07

                                      pr 08




                                                 08
                                      c t -0




                                      c t -0




                                      c t -0




                                      c t -0




                                      c t -0
                                     Ju n-0




                                     Ju n-0




                                     Ju n-0




                                     Ju n-0




                                     Ju n-0
                                    Ja ec-
                                    A ar -




                                    Ja ec-
                                    A ar -




                                    Ja ec-

                                    A ar -




                                    Ja ec-

                                    A ar -
                                    O ep




                                    O Sep




                                    O ep




                                    O ep




                                    O Sep
                                             ct-
                                            u




                                            u




                                            u




                                            u




                                            u
                                          M




                                          M




                                          M




                                          M
                                          -J




                                          -J




                                          -J




                                          -J




                                          -J
                                         l-




                                         l-
                                      pr
                                   A




                                                                                   T argets         Achiev.




2.2 CBO Formation and CPA Preparation

2.2.1 CBO Membership             Usually around 7 to 12 members were selected to represent majority of
community members and 2 to 3 females were selected per CBO. However, their active participation in
mixed gender meetings was constrained due to cultural reasons particularly in southern districts of AJK.
The mission noted that by and large the process to elect CBO members were conducted democratically. It
has to be noted, however, the project did not have fixed criteria for the nomination and election of CBO
members. There were some cases where only a couple of families dominated a CBO's elected body. It was
also noted that there were weak linkages in representations of settlements and mechanisms were not
regularly followed to ensure regular consultation/information sharing with general members from other
settlements.

2.2.2 CAP Preparation             The average time required for a community to formulate a CAP was 3
months after the first contact. Anecdotal evidences gathered during the ICRR mission revealed that the
majority of CBOs did have a leading role in the identification and implementation of schemes. It was



                                                                                             23
noted, however, that community's leading role in the process of developing CAPs decreased when
technical/civil engineering inputs were required for the development of design and procurement plans for
CPIs.

2.2.3 Gender mainstreaming in CPA preparation appeared to be a difficult part in the implementation
due to cultural reasons especially in southern districts of AJK, although the project did emphasize the
participation of women in the exercises. The project met the requirement of having around 30% of female
members in CBOs, but meetings which required discussions and decisions under the desegregated gender
situations were mainly dominated by males. As included in the Lessons Learned section, the ICRR team
considers that separate sub-CBOs segregating males and females and form an apex CBO federating sub-
CBOs might be a mechanism to reflect females' voices.

2.3 Capacity Building Training

2.3.1 Community Mobilization and Capacity Building                  The project pr ovided t raining t o C BO
members in various disciplines as shown in the table below. In terms of achievement, the performance of
the project is unsatisfactory, given the project achieved only 3% of the target in terms of number of trainee
for t he pl anned t raining. T he p roject a lso di d not carry out many of planned t rainings. T he pr oject
implemented four additional trainings as needs arose. Around 20 percent of these trainees were estimated
women members of CBOs.




                                                     24
                     Table 2. Overview of Training Provided to Community/CBO Members

               No T                      raining/Material Distribution               Target                      Achievement
A. Community Mobilization and
                                                                         Person/CBO C BOs       Total     No       %       Year
Capacity Building
                1                   Leadership training                          8       425     3,400
                2                   CAP training                                 8       425     3,400    459             2003-04
                                    Treasure/procurement/CAP
              3                                                                  2       425      850     633      74.5        2004
                                    Training
              4                     Activist Training                            5       425     2,125
              5                     Orientation to communities                   5       425     2,125    205       9.6         2002
                                                                                                                               2007-
              6                     Cross visit (AJK)                            5       425     2,125    136       6.4
                                                                                                                                2008
                                                                                                                               2007-
              7                     Cross visit (outside AJK)                    2       425      850     174      20.5
                                                                                                                                2008
              8                     Construction training                       15       425     6,375
                                    Skill development (income
              9                                                                 40       425    17,000    317       1.9        2008
                                    generation) men
                                    Training of CBOs (Record
              10                                                                10       425     4,250    750      17.6   2006-07
                                    Keeping)
                                    Participatory Reflection and
              11                                                                                           60                  2004
                                    Action (PRA)
                                    Training Need Assessment
              12                                                                                           20                  2002
                                    Workshops
              13                    Process Monitoring Workshop                                             7                2002
              14                    Waterquality testing workshops                                        778             2007-08
              15                    Training of trainers                        25                 25     123
                           Sub-total                                                            42,525   3,662
B. HESA
                                                                                                                            2007-
              16 H                      ESA training                             8       425     3,400   4,000    117.6
                                                                                                                             2008
              17                    Healthy home training                       10       425     4,250    750      17.6      2008
                                                                                                                            2006-
              18 O                      &M training                              5       425     2,125    750      35.3
                                                                                                                             2007
              19 H                   osehold material (Kits)                    10       425     4,250     750     17.6   2006-07
              20                    HESA Material (Kits)                         8       425     3,400   4,000    117.6   2007-08
              21                    Entry community activities                           425         0
              22 R                   esource person payment                     40       425    17,000
                           Sub-total                                                            34,425
C. SWC
              23 F                   unctional/economic education               40       425    17,000    800                  2008
              24                    Develop micro credit linkages               20       425     8,500     42                  2008
              25                    Women and children initiatives              40       425    17,000    200       1.2        2008
                           Sub-total                                                            42,500
                                Total                                                          119,450




                                                                25
                               Figure 2. Community Development Training
                                        800
                                                                                                          750
                                        700                                     693
                                                                                                                      627
                                        600

                                        500

                                        400

                                        300

                                        200

                                        100
                                                         52
                                             0                       0                    0
                                                     2002        2003      2004       2005            2006-       2007-
                                                                                                      2007        2008



                             Note: Number of person trained.


2.4 Health Environment Sanitation Awareness (HESA)

2.4.1 HESA Training               Under HESA a ctivities, t he project t rained a pproximately 9,500 C ISP
community members a s s hown i n Table 2 above, which w as a round 27 % o f the target. The g eneral
response of CBO members on H ESA training was positive and anecdotal evidences gathered during the
ICRR mission confirms t hat community members i nterviewed r esponded t hat they ha ve increased
awareness on environment a nd health. H owever, it i s di fficult t o a ssess the impact of t he H ESA due to
lack of qualitative analysis on H ESA activities. As shown Figure 3 be low, HESA trainings were largely
conducted in 2 007-2008, and therefore, it is assumed t hat m ajority of trainee w ere n ot a ble t o use the
contents of training for the preparation of CAPs and establishing O&M.

                                      Figure 3. Training under HESA
                                      5000
                                                                                                                          4750

                                      4000

                                      3000

                                      2000

                                      1000
                                                                   22
                                        0               0                         0           0               0
                                                     2002        2003      2004           2005          2006        2007-
                                                                                                                    2008


                           Note: Number of person trained.

2.5 Support to Children and Women (SCW)

2.5.1 SCW Training                 The p roject t rained around 1,000 w omen i n various s kills unde r S WC
activities. Trainings c onducted under this s ub-component were de mand-driven. T he C ISP community
members were given a menu of training s ubjects and t hey participated in the training according t o their
interests. It should be noted that all trainings were conducted during the last year of the project (see graph
below). The number of trainings delivered was also far below (<3%) the target.

                                       Figure 4. Training under SCW
                                        1200

                                        1000                                                                          1000

                                         800

                                         600

                                         400

                                         200

                                                 0          0      0        0         0           0           0
                                                      2002      2003     2004     2005      2006        2007       2008


                           Note: Number of person trained.



                                                                                26
2.5.2 Livelihood Improvement             There was a few successful examples of adoption of these skills,
with marginal impacts due to limited linkages with credit facilities and marketing. As no design was given
to support livelihood improvement through providing linkages with economic and micro-credit facilities
in the PAD, this sub-component was weakly implemented with little follow-up. Nevertheless, since these
trainings were conducted by relevant technical organizations, therefore, it is expected to have a longer
term linkage between trainers and trainees for mutual benefits. The following table provides a brief
summary on some of successful income generating activities adopted by beneficiaries of these trainings.

                             Table 3. Livelihood Activities Supported by the Project
No.                     Type of Training                                     Impact of Training
 1      Mushroom Growing & Marketing in Neelum District             11 Household Mushroom Farms
                                                                    were developed
 2      Vegetable Growing & Marketing in Muzaffarabad District      10 Household vegetable farms were
                                                                    developed
 3      Fruit Processing, Preservation and Marketing in Bagh        10 Household fruit preservation
        District                                                    centers were developed
 4      Poultry Production & Marketing in Poonch & Sudhnuti         10 Household poultry farms were
        Districts                                                   developed

Component 3: Community Infrastructure

3.1 Overview of Outputs

3.1.1 Number of Schemes and Beneficiaries The project implemented a total of 3,426 schemes during
the project period as detailed in Table 4. Various schemes were implemented by 457 CBOs in 8 Districts
of AJK. In total, these interventions benefited 141,010 HHs with more than one million people, of which
over 50% were estimated female beneficiaries based on the population census data.

3.1.2 Distribution of Schemes            Approximately 80% of CPI schemes in number were
implemented in rural areas with 86% of the total budget. The scheme wise portfolio exhibits that the
internal pathway scheme was most popular consisting of more than 36%, followed by street pavement
(29%), water supply13 (24%), community latrines (9%), and remaining 9% include drainage, foot bridges.
In terms of amount invested, the water supply schemes received 39% of the total investment, while 32%
was spent for internal pathways, 22% for street pavement.




13
     CISP has implemented some pumped water supply schemes but this is not categorized as an independent type.


                                                         27
                            Table 4. CPIs in Rural and Urban/Peri Urban areas
                                 CPIs implemented                     Total cost
           Type            Rural      Urban       Total     Rural      Urban         Total
                          No   %    No     %    No     % PKR (m) % PKR (m) % PKR (m) %
  Water Supply            810 29.5 27 4.0 837 24.4 636.17 43.6        16.89 7.3    653.1 38.6
  Community Latrines      266 9.7 31 4.6 297 8.7           26.16 1.8   2.96 1.3     29.1 1.7
  Storm Water Drainage     61 2.2 25 3.7          86 2.5   25.68 1.8   9.93 4.3     35.6 2.1
  Internal Pathways      1006 36.6 53 7.8 1059 30.9 515.22 35.3       26.25 11.3   541.5 32.0
  Bridges                  42 1.5      2 0.3      44 1.3   11.35 0.8   1.27 0.5     12.6 0.7
  Street pavement         508 18.5 495 72.8 1003 29.3 208.89 14.3 158.84 68.5      367.7 21.8
  Street Lights             1 0.0      6 0.9       7 0.2    0.23 0.0   1.32 0.6      1.5 0.1
  Solid Waste               0 0.0      2 0.3       2 0.1       0 0.0   0.21 0.1      0.2 0.0
  Others                   52 1.9 39 5.7          91 2.7   34.97 2.4  14.19 6.1     49.2 2.9
  Total                  2746 100.0 680 100.0 3426 100.0 1458.7 100.0 231.9 100.0 1690.5 100.0

3.1.3        Earthquake damage and Restoration            A t otal of 267 schemes were da maged worth of
PKR 47 m illion ( US$ 590,000). In t he rural a reas, 70 C BOs w ere affected w ith 247 schemes da maged
while in urban areas, 9 C BOs were affected with 21 s chemes damaged. Approximately PKR 32 million
(US$ 400,000) were spent to restore the damages, while PKR 12 million (US$ 150,000) were written off
by dropping the completely da maged s chemes. A dditional community c ontribution w as no t r equired t o
restore the damaged schemes.

3.1.4      Actual Implementation against PAD               As shown in Table 5, the actual amount invested
for implementing v arious types C PIs i s quite different f rom t he tentative allocations given in the PAD.
The e xpenditure o n w ater supply schemes, f or example, is m uch l ess ( 39%) than the one shown i n the
PAD (66%). This also confirms that the CPI schemes were implemented based on demand driven.

                        Table 5. Comparison of Cost - PAD vs Actual Expenditure
                                               Target as in PAD    Actual by CISP
                               Type          PKR(m) % of total          (%)
                     Water Supply               936.16       65.64     38.60
                     Community Latrines          21.93        1.54      1.70
                     Storm Water Drainage       116.98         8.2      2.10
                     Internal Pathways          123.94        8.69     32.00
                     Bridges                    116.98         8.2      0.01
                     Street pavement             58.49         4.1      0.22
                     Street Lights                4.39        0.31      0.00
                     Solid Waste                  8.77        0.62      0.00
                     Others                      38.49         2.7      0.03
                     Total                     1426.15        100       1.00


3.2 Distribution of CPIs per District

3.2.1 Kotli district received more CPI schemes with a total of 818 CPIs and an investment of PKR 351
million. Muzaffarabad district followed wherein 575 CPIs with an investment of PKR 309 million.
Neelum district which is the most remote district stands at the tail end with respect to the number of




                                                    28
schemes implemented and the amount spent14. Figure 5 illustrates the aggregated distribution of schemes
implemented and amount spent. The schemes implemented in various districts are shown in Table 6, along
with the graphic distribution and the amount invested.

                         Figure 5. District Wise Distribution of Schemes and Amount Spent



                                                            119                                                   Bagh
                                                                         235
                                                         317          313                                         Bhimber
                                                   230
                      Amount -                       387                      472 189                             Kotli
                      PKR million             61                                                                  Mirpur
                                                   230
                                                                                                                  Muzfd
                      Number
                                                                              818
                                                309 575                                                           Neelum
                                                                                 351
                                                                314                                               Poonch
                                                                196                                               Sudhnoti




                                      Table 6. Schemes in various districts - Numbers
           Type         Bagh        Bhimber         Kotli             Mirpur       Muzfd         Neelum      Poonch   Sudhnoti     Total
     Rural areas
     Water Supply           126          75              113               19           134          75         147          121      810
     Com. Latrines           28          26               40                 6            34         16          31           85      266
      Drainage              -            17               18                15             4           3          3            1       61
      Pathways               72         148              309                24          165         100         132           56    1,006
      Bridges               -           -                -                -                6          25         11          -         42
      St pavement           -           160              221              100             19        -           -              8      508
      Street Lights         -             1              -                -             -           -           -            -          1
      Solid Waste           -           -                -                -             -           -           -            -        -
     Others                   3          16               12               14           -              6          1          -         52
     Sub total              229         443              713              178           362         225         325          271    2,746
     Urban/peri Urban areas
     Water Supply             1             4               1             -                  1       -            4           16       27
     Com Latrines            10             1               2                  2        -            -            4           12       31
     Drainage                 1         -                -                     6            17       -            1          -         25
      Pathways               35             1            -                     4             1           3        7            2       53
      Bridges               -           -                -                -             -                1        1          -          2
      St pavement            32          21               90              118           173              1       44           16      495
      Street Lights         -             2              -                  2              2         -          -            -          6
      Solid Waste           -           -                -                  1           -            -            1          -          2
      Others                  5         -                 12                3             19         -          -            -         39
     Sub total               84          29              105              136           213           5          62           46      680
     Total                  313         472              818              314           575         230         387          317    3,426
     % of total
     Rural                    7          13               21                   5            11           7       10           8        80
     Urban                    3           1                3                   4             6           0        2           1        20
     Total                    9          14               24                   9            17           7       11           9       100




14
     The population of Neelum district is also lowest viz. 4.27% of AJK.


                                                                          29
3.3 Population Benefited

3.3.1 The CISP does not have scheme wise information regarding number of beneficiary households
except for `water supply' schemes. It is therefore, not possible to have an idea of the extent of population
benefited per scheme. The majority of CBOs have implemented more than one type of scheme; thus, one
community benefited from more than one scheme. In order to estimate the total household and population,
the ICRR used the CBO wise population table. As shown in Table 7 below, the total beneficiaries in rural
areas are approximately 850,000 against a target of 680,000. The beneficiary population in urban/peri
urban areas is around 170,000 against the envisaged target figure of 150,000.

                                       Table 7. CBOs formed and population served
                           No. of CBOs                      HHs benefited                          Population
   District
                     Rural U    rban     Total      Rural       Urban       Total        Rural         Urban     Total
Bagh 69                         20        89        15,831       3,562       19,393      118,687       25,517    144,204
Bhimber 44                         6      50        12,566       1,275       13,841       91,224        8,726     99,950
Kotli 97                           8      105       32,190       3,180       35,370      226,001       21,555    247,556
Mirpur                31        16        47         8,083       6,135       14,218 5      6,729 42,      650     99,379
Muzaffarabad 61                 14        75        18,865       5,545       24,410      133,399       37,994    171,393
Neelum 20                          3      23         5,661           505      6,166       40,310        3,647     43,957
Poonch 38                          3      41        15,105       1,691       16,796      118,328       13,960    132,288
Sudhnotti             23           4      27         8,836       1,980       10,816 6      7,969 15,      376     83,345
Total            383            74        457      117,137      23,873      141,010 85     2,647 169,     425   1,022,072
Source: CISP AJK

3.4 Cost by Type and by Districts

3.4.1 The average cost per scheme was the highest for water supply (PKR 780,000) and the lowest for
community latrines (PKR 98,000). The average cost is PKR 511,000 for pathways and PKR 367,000 for
street pavement. Against an average cost of PKR 493,000 per scheme for all areas, the cost per scheme is
PKR 752,000 in Bagh district, followed by PKR 626,000 in Mirpur district.

                                                  Table 8. Cost per Scheme
          Type             Bagh   Bhimber        Kotli      Mirpur     Muzfd  Neelum Poonch Sudhnoti Average
     Water Supply           1,098     538           707       2,328       992     290    798     513      780
     Com. Latrines            128     112           117          85       144     172    143      31       98
     Drainage                 319     232           433         734       224     407    517     149      414
     Pathways                 739     383           467         713       524     234    665     650      511
     Bridges                                                              376     276    266              287
     St. pavement            260         370        346        458        362     524    151     340      367
     Street Lights                       222                   221        220                             221
     Solid Waste                                               147                        68              107
     Others                  407         898        244        921        337     573    200              540
         Average             752         399        429        626        537     265    594     376      493
  (PKR1,000)




                                                                30
3.5 CBO Contribution

3.5.1 Twenty percent contribution of capital cost, excluding the primary works, was mandatory for the
CBOs in implementing CPI schemes. After the earthquake, there were some waivers to allow labour
inputs instead of 20% cash contribution in 5 earthquake affected districts, but majority of CBOs
contributed more than 20% share of capital costs. The community contribution was not applied in
community latrines, street lights and solid waste management scheme. The ICRR's analysis unveiled that
by and large community contributed cash as required. It should be noted that communities also managed
to secure donations of lands for CPIs and free labour for transporting construction material from the main
roads to the construction sites, which were often neither recorded nor valued.

                                          Table 9. CBO Contribution
          Type            Total cost    Trunk/ Promary works       Net       CBO Contribution        %
           1                  2                   3               4=2-3            5               6=5/4
  Water Supply             27,004,818               4,914,868     22,089,950      4,387,290          19.9%
  Roads                     5,040,138                 866,109      4,174,029         829,997         19.9%
  Sewerage                  1,199,569                 652,780        546,789         122,413         22.4%
  Internal Pathways         2,103,387                 419,642      1,683,745         336,749         20.0%
  Bridges                     964,646                     -          964,646         408,369         42.3%
  Street pavement           5,298,874                     -        5,298,874         925,138         17.5%
          Total            41,611,432               6,853,399     34,758,033      7,009,956          20.2%

3.6 Cost per Household

3.6.1 A ceiling per household of total investment costs was set at PKR 20,000 (PAD, p 18). The
average actual cost per HH was estimated at PKR 12,453 for rural areas while PKR 9,712 for urban areas.
The average cost for both rural and urban areas was estimated at around PKR 12,000 as shown in Table 6.
These suggest that the cost borne by each HH was much lower than the PAD estimate. It has to be noted
that each community was able to put 20% of capital contribution and, as discussed below, the work of
CPIs was effective in terms of construction cost.

                                   Table 10. Cost per Beneficiary Household
                           Bagh Bhimber Kotli Mirpur Muzfd Neelum Poonch Sudhnoti             Total/Ave
     Rural
     Total cost (PKR m)    211.8     177.2 336.9 132.9 233.6      57.1       202.9    106.3      1458.7
     No of HHs            15,831    12,566 32,190 8,083 18,865 5,661        15,105    8,836     117,137
     Cost/HH (PKR)        13,378    14,103 10,467 16,441 12,380 10,095      13,432   12,025      12,453
     Urban
     Total cost (PKR m)     23.4      11.3 14.2    63.6   75.4        3.8     27.2     12.9        231.9
     No of HHs             3,562     1,275 3,180 6,135 5,545         505     1,691    1,980       23,873
     Cost/HH (PKR)         6,582     8,884 4,468 10,364 13,597     7,558    16,057    6,531        9,712
     All Areas
     Total cost (PKR m)    235.2     188.5 351.1 196.5 308.9          61       230    119.2      1690.5
     No of HHs            19,393    13,841 35,370 14,218 24,410    6,166    16,796   10,816     141,010
     Cost/HH (PKR)        12,130    13,622 9,928 13,819 12,657     9,887    13,696   11,019      11,989

3.7 Cost Effectiveness

3.7.1 The rates used in the project were drawn from the GoAJK schedule rates prepared in 1998. Year
wise premium was calculated by the GoAJK to adjust for rate escalation. Based on the data acquired from
the GoAJK, the ICRR team carried out a cost effectiveness analysis to compare CISP's CPI scheme costs


                                                       31
with GoAJK's PWD keeping in view the same specification, location and time period for the
Muzaffarabad area. The result shows that the differences in the average cost were 20% less in CISP's
works in FY2007 and a similar comparison for FY2008 was calculated at about 20% less. This analysis
shows that implementation under CISP was cost effective.

                         Table 11. Rate Comparison CISP vs PWD (AJK), in PKR
        No   Item                             Unit PWD Tender Rate CISP rate CISP as % of PWD
             1                                  2              3             4              5=4/3
         1 Pick work & Drain                  %cft                1,950      1,642          84.2%
         2 Jumper Work                        %cft                3,750      3,250          86.7%
         3 Blasting Work                      %cft                5,900      5,051          85.6%
         4 P.C.C 1:2:4                        %cft               10,000      7,553          75.5%
         5 R.C.C 1:2:4                         /cft                 160      1,189          74.3%
         6 Mild Steel(Deform)                 %Kg                 5,700      4,299          75.4%
         7 P.C.C 1:3:6 Plum                   %cft                8,600      6,480          75.3%
         8 Gabions( 6"mesh 8 SWG)             %Sft                1,725      2,335         135.4%
         9 Stone filling in wire crates       %cft                1,200      1,059          88.2%
        10 Stone soling 6" thick              %cft                1,400      1,080         77.1%
       Note: Rates of same Spec at the same location with in same Time period (10-03-2007)
       Source: CISP and PWD

3.8 Environmental and hygienic aspect

3.8.1 Any possible/potential damage to environment caused by the CPI construction was
prevented/mitigated through implementing the guidelines provided in the EMF, and the ICRR mission
indeed did not observe any violation of the EMF in the CPI construction. However, the construction of
latrines and septic tanks by the communities merit further attention, as explained in the following section
"Unexpected Environmental Degradation.

3.8.2 Focus on hygiene and sanitation considerations was also ensured through conducting the hygiene-
oriented HESA trainings. Natural springs have been selected as the water source for most of the water
supply schemes implemented. However, as activities around the source increase, the GoAJK may need to
adopt additional measures to further improve the protection of water sources since the water quality tests
already indicate the presence of bacteriological contamination in the majority of the water supply
schemes.

3.9 Measurement Book

3.9.1 Measurement book was installed at each CBO as the master book for the CPI schemes, and it was
used to record all the details. This is considered to be a good practice. It will always remain in the custody
of financial auditor and is considered as a legal document.

3.10 Issues in Component 3

3.10.1 Delays due to procurement of pipes: It was noted that there were delays in implementation of
the DWSS. This was mainly due to the procurement of water supply pipes. Pipe procurement was done
through National Competitive Bidding in which large quantities of water supply pipes were procured and
delivered to CBOs in their respective villages. The procurement was centralised and processed after
demands from various communities were collected. The provision was further delayed when the process
was repeated due to refusal by suppliers due to unfavourable fluctuation in the prices.



                                                     32
3.10.2 Schedule rate: The LGRDD followed the schedule of rates as prepared by the PWD. Those unit
rates were inclusive of the contractor's profit, therefore, amount of contractors profit was deducted from
the payment to be made to the CBOs. Schedule rates when compared with the market rates appeared to be
lower, and the differences was borne by the communities, which was additional to their already committed
share. There was risk that CBOs may have had to reduce the scope of work or compromise on quality.
Communities always favoured market rates. The mission observed that there were a lot of revisions of
MOA. It was due to community pressure as all the incremental costs were supposed to be afforded by the
communities.

3.10.3 Unexpected/Potential Environmental Degradation             The demonstration latrine has an effluent
system with a septic tank which is attached with a soakage pit. Such septic tank system with a soakage pit
if inappropriately located can potentially contaminate the downstream water sources. In the pre-water
supply scheme scenario, water consumption was low when water had to be fetched from a distance, at the
same time; it also meant lower quantity of wastewater. However, when a piped water supply system is
installed, the water consumption as well as the quantity of wastewater increases, and its safe disposal
becomes critical to prevent water related diseases, foul odours and unsightly environment. Although this
aspect was addressed by constructing demonstration latrines as well as by conducting HESA trainings
during the CISP project, further awareness raising of the communities would be needed beyond the
project.




                                                    33
                                Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1 Background

3.1.1 CISP was implemented since 2002 and completed a total of 3,426 CPI schemes by the end of
2008 with an expenditure of Rs 1,690.53 million. "End-term Project Evaluation Report" was prepared by
a local consulting company in 2008. However, there is not enough qualitative data available in the report
as required for the ICR. In light of lack of qualitative data, the project effectiveness of the project was
judged based on the data provided by the project, supplemented by field visit to 40 CPI schemes in 7
districts and discussion with beneficiaries of the selected schemes.

3.2 Methodology

3.2.1 Secondary data was collected for all CPIs from the CISP office at Muzaffarabad. It was sorted by
CPI types for various aspects including (i) number of schemes, (ii) cost, (iii) number of beneficiaries and
others. A total of 40 CPIs in various districts were selected for the filed visit. The selection for the field
visits was conducted based on the following criteria:

    (i)         There is sufficient representation of various districts judged on the basis of number of
                schemes by its type and amount invested;
    (ii)        It represents different geographical areas or the rural and urban/peri urban areas, and
    (iii)       The selection is based on the overall weights of scheme types in CPI portfolio.

3.2.2 The secondary data provided by the project has a list of all schemes implemented. Upon selecting
the CBOs to be visited using the list, the ICRR mission was provided with documents that pertain for
approval of CPI schemes including beneficiaries, demography, cost estimate. Beneficiaries' views on the
project as well as CPIs were gathered by group discussions with a pre-structured set of questions. Then,
interview results were analyzed to derive meaningful inferences in the light of efficiency parameters, to
judge project efficiency.

3.3 Assumptions and Returns on Investment for selected CPIs

3.3.1 Analysis has been made on the basis of beneficiarys' views gathered by group discussions and
secondary data (costs) available with the CISP for the 40 schemes visited in 7 districts. Economic and
financial analyses have been made for all infrastructure schemes to have an idea of returns on investment
(ROI) using financial and economic prices. The assumptions made are:

    (i)         The life span is taken as 10 years for all CPIs except for street light and foot bridge for which
                the life is taken as 20 years and 25 years respectively;
    (ii)        Though there will be some salvage value for all schemes, it is taken for few schemes: 30% for
                water supply schemes, 40% for pathways, 20% for dustbins, 50% for street lights
    (iii)       For Economic analysis:
            ·   Shadow wage rate (SWR) is taken as 0.75 for unskilled labour and 0.9 for skilled labour.
            ·   Standard conversion factors (SCF) for each scheme are based on the individual SCFs of
                itemized cost.
            ·   Financial benefits are multiplied with SCF of 0.9 for use in Economic analysis.
            ·   Diesel or kerosene value is multiplied with 0.58 as the government is earning Rs 25 in a price
                of Rs 60 per liter.




                                                         34
3.4 Types of Benefits

3.4.1 Although, the CPIs are small and low cost investments, the improvement of CPIs have great
impacts on localized communities. It was noted that as the CBO members have contributed in the capital
investment in these schemes, the chances of their sustainability are high. The benefits accruing are briefly
as follows:

          (a)   Water Supply: availabilities of dr inking w ater a t or near the door s teps leading t o time
                savings and its productive use in other income generating activities, comparatively better
                quality of w ater with limited chances of da mages & contamination, and thus savings i n
                medical e xpenses o n a ccount o f i llness. I n a ddition, w ater s upply s chemes pr ovided
                immediate impacts on further latrines c onstruction, which h as b een carried out m ainly
                private initiatives by community members who participated in their own CPIs;
          (b)   Community Latrines: cleanliness of community latrines resulting in better sanitation and
                health of the be neficiaries and de creased medical e xpenses a nd t ime saving t hat can be
                productively used;
          (c)   Foot Paths/Roads (Internal pathways): frequency of washing cloths was reduced due to
                paved pa thways which k eep c loths c leaner w hile w alking on foot pa ths; t ime s aving to
                approach water points or nearby tracks through steep slope tracks, lesser injuries caused
                due to uneven & slippery paths;
          (d)   Link Roads: easy a ccess to metalled r oad, op ening up t he a reas f or other e conomic
                activities, savings in commuter time, reduction in transport/ haulage rates, productive use
                of saved time;
          (e)   Foot Bridge: convenience of crossing `nullahs' especially for school children and elderly
                persons, decreased distances;
          (f)   Street Pavement : s mooth flow l eading t o f uel/ time s aving, be tter hy gienic conditions
                resulting in decreased medical expenses;
          (g)   Solid Waste: better hy gienic conditions, l esser incidence of diseases and savings in
                medical expenditure; and
          (h)   Street Lights: savings in electricity bill by proper management of time and economic use
                of lights.

3.5 Returns by Infrastructure type

3.5.1 Benefits are calculated for each type of intervention using excel spreadsheets on the basis of group
discussion with beneficiaries. The nature of benefits accruing for some infrastructure schemes is given in
Table 1.




                                                     35
                          Table 1. Benefits from different infrastructure Schemes
     CPIs B          enefit Description                                       Value              Unit
Water supply        Time saving/ HH/ day                                      4.02         female hrs.
                    Annual savings of medical expenses /HH                     918         PKR
                    Annual savings/HH due to Kitchen gardening                 887         PKR
Road                Savings in transportation of farm produce                  163         RKRs/ton
                    Savings in round trip Passenger fare to nearby town       13.2         RKRs
                    Savings in Commuter time per trip/HH                       2.58        hrs
Street pavement     Decrease in persons falling ill                           0.69         days/HH/month
                    Annual medical cost savings per HH                        1,541        RKR
Foot paths          Daily time savings for bringing water                      0.4         hrs/day/HH
                    Time savings/trip in approaching jeepable track           0.25         hrs
                    Savings of injuries due to uneven/steep, narrow paths     1,083        RKRs/annum

3.5.2 The financial costs are converted to economic costs using shadow prices for various items. The
SCFs for various schemes are derived on the basis of itemized costs and resultant SCF derived using the
share of various items in total cost of the scheme. The SCF varies from 0.85 to 0.92 for various CPIs
implemented.

3.5.3 The results of analyses leading to the assessment of cost effectiveness of various infrastructure
schemes shows that EIRR is in the range of 15% to 34%. Highest returns are for bridges intensively used
by the beneficiaries. The summarized results for various types are given in Table 2. The EIRR for water
supply and street pavement schemes is 22.8% and 19.6% respectively. For Pathways, the EIRR is 21%.
The benefit:cost (B:C) ratio at 15% discount rate and NPV is positive for all type of schemes. The results
for financial analysis are also positive for various schemes.

               Table 2. Summarized results of Cost effectiveness for Aggregated Scheme types
                                     Economic analysis                          Financial analysis
         CPI type
                         NPV @ 15%        B:C @ 15%           EIRR    NPV @ 15%       B:C @ 15%      FIRR
    Water Supply              8.60           1.26             22.8%      8.40            1.22        21.6%
    Com Latrines              0.04           1.12             21.1%      0.04            1.12        21.1%
    Pathways                  1.86           1.19             21.0%      0.76            1.06        17.0%
    Bridges                   0.54           1.40             23.7%      0.60            1.40        23.7%
    St. pavement              0.86           1.14             19.6%      0.96            1.14        19.6%
    Street Lights             1.41           1.32             24.9%      2.12            1.46        29.7%
    Solid Waste               0.03           1.18             26.1%      0.03            1.15        24.8%
    Others                    1.59           1.21             22.0%      0.59            1.06        17.1%
    Aggregated                4.19           1.21             21.5%      3.73            1.14        19.5%

3.5.4 The returns for motorized water supply scheme were also calculated separately. The NPV at 15%
rate is Rs 2.76 million and B:C is 1.28. The EIRR is 23.2% and FIRR of 21.5%.


3.6 Overall returns form CPIs

3.6.1 A total of PKR 1,691 million was invested on various CPIs by the end of the project completion.
Approximately 40% of the total investment was made on water supply schemes followed by 32% on



                                                         36
internal pathways and 21.8% on street pavement. The remaining 7% of investment is on schemes like
community latrines, bridges, solid waste, street light, protection works.

3.6.2 Weighted average EIRR as detailed in Table 3 is 21.5% and FIRR of 19.5%. Water supply is by
far the major contributor to overall return (8.8%) followed pathways (6.7%) and street pavement (4.3%).
The B:C also follows the pattern of EIRR viz. highest for bridges followed by water supply.


                                       Figure 1. EIRR and B:C at 15%
                                               1.5                                                   25%

                                               1.3                                                   23%

                                               1.0                                                   20%

                                               0.8                                                   18%

                                               0.5                                                   15%
                                                     Water      Com                          St.
                                                                       Pathways Bridges
                                                     Supply   Latrines                    pavement
                                        B:C @ 15%     1.26     1.12      1.19      1.40     1.14
                                        EIRR          23%      21%      21%        24%      20%




                     Table 3. Contribution of various Infrastructures in Project worth
                   Cost ­             IRR                                NPV -PAK(M)                                    B:C
  Project type
                  PAK(M)      Economic F inancial                     Economic Fin ancial                       Economic Fin   ancial
Water Supply         653.06     8.8%                 8.3%                       3.32 3.                    24     0.49 0.       47
Com Latrines           29.1     0.4%                 0.4%                       0.00 0.                    00     0.02 0.       02
Pathways              541.5     6.7%                 5.4%                       0.60 0.                    24     0.38 0.       34
Bridges                12.6     0.2%                 0.2%                       0.00 0.                    00     0.01 0.       01
St. pavement          367.7     4.3%                 4.3%                       0.19 0.                    21     0.25 0.       25
Street Lights           1.5     0.0%                 0.0%                       0.00 0.                    00     0.00 0.       00
Solid Waste             0.2     0.0%                 0.0%                       0.00 0.                    00     0.00 0.       00
Others                 84.8     1.1%                 0.9%                       0.08 0.                    03     0.06 0.       05
Total                1690.5     21.5%                19.5%                      4.19 3.                    73     1.21 1.       14


3.7 Conclusion

3.7.1 In the light of foregoing analysis, it can be concluded that the returns on investment in various
schemes are more than the prevailing cut-off rate of 15%. The NPV and B:C is also positive.




                                                                   37
          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

            Names                           Title                   Unit        Responsibility/ Specialty
 Lending (The system pulls from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet, if any.)




 Supervision (The system pulls from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs.)




   (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
   (The system pulls data available for all fields)

                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Staff Weeks                   US$ Thousands
                                                                       (including travel and consultant
                                                                                    costs)
Lending
             FYxx
             FYxx
                       TOTAL:
Supervision/ICR
             FYxx
             FYxx
                        TOTAL




                                                     38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                    39
                        Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1. Introduction

1.1      Two stakeholder workshops were held: one for the northern and the other for the southern districts
of t he pr oject area ( AJK). The participants in b oth workshops a re from representatives of project
beneficiary CBOs, civil society organizations and CISP staff. The purpose of the workshops was to seek
stakeholders' impressions on project s trategy an d approach as w ell as to r ecord l essons learned f rom
project i mplementation that c an be us ed to improve project design f or similar projects. The w orkshops
were arranged as a part of the ICRR mission with support from the project.

1.2     The first workshop for the northern districts was held on March 25, 2009 in Muzaffarabad where
45 participants attended, while the second workshop for the southern districts was held on March 28, 2009
in Mirpur with a total of 55 participants (see table below for participants composition).

1.3      The w orkshops w ere divided into three p arts: ( i) small group di scussions; (ii) presentation of
small-group-discussion results; and (iii) questionnaire. The small group discussions and presentation were
facilitated by the ICRR mission members and they were conducted in local language. In order to facilitate
free discussions, the participants were carefully divided based on their affiliations and women participants
were separated f rom male groups. The questionnaires g iven t o p articipants w ere p repared i n l ocal
language w ith the help of g uiding no tes and e xplained further in t he workshops. S ome C BO
representatives were not able to read and write, and therefore, the ICRR mission members helped in filling
questionnaires.

                                       Table 1.Participants Composition
                                               CBO C            ISP Staff                Total
                   Workshop
                                            M         F       M         F          M      F    Total
           Northern Districts              14 4 18                      2          32     6     38
           Southern Districts              21 5 24                      2          45     7     52
                    Total                  35 9 42                      4          77    13     90
          Note: M: Male, F: Female

1.4      This annex is prepared by combining results of discussions and questionnaires. It is important to
note that due to limited participation of women-CBO members in the workshops, views from CBOs were
by a nd large dom inated b y male pa rticipants. I n a ddition, r esponses r eceived both in di scussions and
questionnaires appear varying depending on the personal experiences and perceptions of stakeholders and
their affiliations, as w ell as the w ay they unde rstood questions ( this is e specially t rue f or illiterates).
Readers of this annex are encouraged to read with caveat due to the fact that the questionnaires were filled
after the discussions; it is most likely that their opinions were influenced by the discussions held prior to
the questionnaire exercise.

2. Community Development

2.1     Ninety t hree percent of C BO members s howed s atisfaction ov er t he t ime g iven f or awareness
raising on t he project and agreed t hat C BOs took t he l eading r ole in t he i dentification o f s chemes.
However, onl y 50% of t he C BO members a greed that women w ere involved in t he C ommunity Action
Plan ( CAP) f ormulation p rocesses. S ome pa rticipants i dentified t he l ack of s ocial m obilization w ith
women groups as the main reason for their limited participation.




                                                       40
2.2    A s mall pe rcentage of CBO members (18%) a greed t hat the planning a nd i mplementation o f
schemes w as largely d ecentralized although o nly 15 percent o f project staff agreed with t he perception.
CBO members argued that there is a need for further decentralization of financial and procurement at the
community l evel. This w ould he lp t o a void delays i n s tating s cheme i mplementation and pa yments t o
CBOs and their members for the work completed.

2.3  The m ajority of participants (79%) agreed that trainees for v arious t rainings w ere s elected by
CBO members and they shared their lessons with other members of the CBO.

2.4     The question on sustainability was posed in a way that whether or not CBOs would continue with
their ope ration once t he p roject w ithdraws i ts s upport; a nd i f y es, whether they have more hu man a nd
financial r esources as w ell a s l inkages with the s tate government a nd NGOs. Around 45 p ercent o f the
CBOs and 67 percent of project staff agreed that CBOs will continue with their development interventions
once CISP withdraws its support. None of the CBO members responded that they have enough financial
resources at their own. However, 18% of the CBOs were of the view that they have developed linkages
with the state government and NGOs to seek finances to continue meeting their other development needs.
Notwithstanding t hat, 50% of all respondents said t hat financial n eeds f or O&M a re met by r egular
contributions.

                       Table 2. Perceptions of Community Development (No)
                                                                       Number of responses    Percent of total
S.No                           Description
                                                                        CBOs Department C BOs Department
A   Total respondents                                                       44           46 100%        100%
B   Time given for awareness raising was sufficient                         41           40    93%           87%
C   CBO was in lead role                                                    43           45    98%           98%
D   CAP is a useful document                                                43           42    98%           91%
E   Women were involved in CAP formulation                                  22           24    50%           52%
F   CBO faced social issues                                                 37           26    84%           57%
G   Resource donation became an issue                                        3           11     7%           24%
H   Planning and implementation was decentralized                            8            7    18%           15%
I   CBO's Sustainability chances are bright                                 20           31    45%           67%
J   CBOs will continue development interventions                            25           32    57%           70%
K   CBO has linkages with other development Organizations                    8           19    18%           41%
L   Training participants selected in CBO meeting                           36           35    82%           76%
M   Training participants shared training lessons with other members        39           34    89%           74%
N   Skill building trainings Identified by CBO members                      41           36    93%           78%
O   Works executed by CISP are better than others                           42           44    95%           96%
P   Financial needs for O&M met by regular contribution                     19           26    43%           57%



3. Lessons Learned on Community Development

3.1      There were some cases w here CBO representatives were selected without a p roper procedure as
well as a s mall elite family group dominated the i n the s election procedure. I t w as a lso s uggested that
CBOs s hould have s ub-separate-groups of m ale r epresentatives a nd female representatives in o rder t o
reflect females' voice i n C BO meetings. A lthough t he project achieved i ts ph ysical t arget, m ajority of
participants indicated that community mobilization and its processes, formation of CBOs and evolution of
the p rocesses ne ed to be improved i n order to pr epare CBOs t hat truly represent t he hous eholds o f the
communities.




                                                          41
3.2      Job op portunities are s carce in A JK rural areas a nd furthermore, r ural ho usehold m embers a re
usually not exposed to l ivelihood skills o ther t han f arming. It w as a rgued t hat e stablishment of skill
developments centres that could provide educational opportunities for adults to gain j ob skills is crucial
for sustainable community development. This is especially true for those with less resources and/or who
need to augment their income sources. Some participants indicated that the project should understand that
people w ant to contribute in c ommunity de velopment a ctivities but t hey c an't, because they are simply
can't afford due to lack of income. It is also stressed that importance of having linkages with micro-credit
service providers who could further assist them in livelihood development investment.


4. Up-gradation of Infrastructure Schemes and Services (UISS)

4.1      The results o f w orkshop di scussion indicate t hat by a nd l arge C BO m embers appreciated
infrastructure s chemes c arried o ut under the project - t here w as an ov erwhelming s upport a nd
compliments from CBO members on such infrastructure investments.

4.2     The majority of respondents (above 83%) agreed that schemes were identified in consultation with
the local communities and women had a significant role in the scheme identification process. Interviews
with women CBO members revealed that although it is difficult for women to express their opinions i n
meetings along with men, they communicate with men (their husbands) at home to make sure that their
needs will be reflected in selecting schemes.


4.3      The result of questionnaire exercise supports that the method undertook by the project for
information dissemination on project activities was successful (majority of the respondents were
aware of the project activity, especially on infrastructure scheme - 48% of respondents indicated
that i nformation a bout t he pr oject w as br ought directly b y t he pr oject s taff, a nd a round 19%
indicated such information was passed through people of neighboring communities.

4.3.   With regard to the question of sub-committee to supervise scheme construction, only 50%
respondents f rom t he C BOs a greed t hat t heir s ub-committees pr ovided s upervision w ork
according to the agreement with the project.

4.4     Community c ontribution w as a ke y c oncept of t he pr oject t o i ncrease t he s ense of
ownership and sustainability of the project. The workshop discussion as well as the questionnaire
exercise showed that around 55% of respondents said that some CBO members did not contribute
their share as had been agreed in the schemes and that their shares of contributions were made up
collectively by other community members. In the southern districts, especially people from near
Mirpur e xpressed t hat s ome of t heir r esidents ( or r elatives) w ork i n E ngland a nd t hese p eople
provided cash contribution.

4.5     The project promoted to open an operation and maintenance (O&M) account at each CBO
to ke ep c ash f or m aintenance of constructed s chemes. D iscussions on t his t opic dur ing t he
workshop r evealed t hat t hat i t was us ually easy t o establish an O &M a ccount for w ater s upply
schemes, but not for the others including foot paths, bridges, link roads, and community latrines.
Around 55% of the participants expressed that there was no regular financial contributions for the
O&M accounts in the case of non-water supply infrastructure schemes.




                                                     42
4.6    With regard to the quality of civil works, the majority of the participants (more than 95%)
agreed t hat t he w ork d one b y t he pr oject w ith C BOs i s be tter t han t he w ork done b y ot her
government organizations. It proved that involvement of CBOs in construction, supervision and
contribution was very effective in improving the quality of civil works.

               Table 3. Views on Up-gradation of Infrastructure Schemes and Services (No.)
                                                               Number of responses   Percent of total
S.No                          Description
                                                                CBOs Department C BOs Department
A CISP was known through Neighbouring community                     10            7   23%           15%
B    CISP was introduced by CISP staff                              20           23   45%           50%
C    Scheme identification done by CBO consultation                 37           38   84%           83%
D    Women involved in Need identification                          38           39   86%           85%
E    Works done through Sub Committees                              39           33   89%           72%
F    Works supervised by Sub Committee                              22           15   50%           33%
G Works executed by CISP are better than others                     42           44   95%           96%
H Some CBO members do not contribute their share                    24           27   55%           59%
I    Financial needs for O&M met by regular contribution            19           26   43%           57%
J    O&M activities monitored by CISP staff by periodic visits      27           32   61%           70%
K Waste water disposed off in open field                            21           21   48%           46%


5. Lessons Learned on Up-grading Infrastructure Schemes and Services

5.1     The i mportance o f s ocial m obilization a nd e mpowerment p rocesses pr ior t o s electing
schemes w as r epeatedly emphasized dur ing t he s takeholder w orkshops. P articipants c onsidered
that CBO's capacity to implement project is fundamental for efficient and timely completion of
the infrastructure schemes.

5.2   CBO members were aware of project's efforts in mobilizing communities. However, the
workshop pa rticipants f elt t hat g roundwork ne eds t o be w ell-prepared a t t he i nitial s tage t o
empower CBO members.

5.3     Many participants indicated that CBOs should have more authority in contracting out the
works, revisions of construction designs, adjustment of i tem rates based on quarterly review of
market rates on tehsil basis in line with the parameters agreed between the project and CBOs. The
participants thought that further decentralization to CBOs would reduce unwarranted and costly
delays. Somme CBO members suggested revision of rates for each district.

5.4     The m enu o f a ctivities s hould be br oaden; i t i s important t he pr oject no t onl y p rovide
infrastructure a ctivities, but a lso in clude liv elihood s upport a ctivities a s w ell a s e nvironmental
protection of n atural resources (sustainable forests a nd s oil c onservation), c ommunity h ealth
improvement programs and youth clubs.

5.5    For c ommunity-based w orks, de ductions of pr ofits f or c ontracts ne ed t o be l ooked i nto
and abolished. Participants considered that although they needed to contribute to schemes in form
of labour and/or cash, but at the same time, the schemes should also bring financial benefits and
labour oppor tunities t o community m embers. In a ddition, qua rterly r eview of m arket r ates o f


                                                    43
items used for construction need to introduced and enforced, so that communities would not be so
affected b y price hike that were experienced after the earthquake and during late 2007 t o 2008,
and which forced CBOs to change designs and/or scale-down of their selected schemes.

5.6    The C BOs i n t he no rthern di stricts pa rticularly highlighted t he n eed f or m ore
development at remote and inaccessible areas such as Neelam district.
.
5.7    Some participants suggested that the scheme package cost should not be greater than Rs.
10 million because the higher the cost per scheme, the higher the contribution required.

5.8    Although 20% community contribution did increase the sense of ownership of constructed
schemes, m any C BO m embers a nd e specially po or hous eholds f elt t hat 2 0% w as t oo hi gh a nd
burden for their livelihood.


6. Environmental safeguards

6.1      The m ajority o f t he pa rticipants responded t hat many of C BO i ndividual m embers have
constructed pe rsonal l atrines a s a r esult of be nefits f rom ha ving c ommunity l atrines. H owever,
poor construction without a proper design and interventions of CBO sub-committees' supervision
resulted i n w ater pol lution i n s ome c ases. W hile e xperiences of ha ving c ommunity l atrines
increased hygiene of communities, at the same time negative consequences have to be avoided by
putting m ore c ontrol on i ndividual a ctivities. M any C BO r epresentatives s uggested t hat w ater
distillation plants should be given to all CBOs, when community latrines are constructed.

6.2    Awareness r aising a nd pr omotion of c ommunity h ygiene di d he lp i ncreasing t heir
knowledge on t he t reatment of w ater. T he m ajority of pa rticipants ur ged t he i mportance o f
providing them with proper water treatment plants in rural areas. More t han 45% of both CBO
representatives an d p roject s taff o bserved t hat waste w ater from r elated s chemes are u sually
disposed in open fields.


7. Implementing Agency's/Other stakeholders Perspective

7.1     Communities at the grassroots level, which forms the building blocks for CBOs (as apex
organizations), need to be well developed and included in the overall social mobilization process,
so as to ensure better representation different segments of the population living in settlements and
fringes o f m ain p opulated a reas. In o rder t o i ncrease female p articipation, s eparate m ale and
female groups of CBO representatives were suggested:.

7.2     For sustainable community development, vocational training centres at the apex level and
smaller uni ts f or de veloping s kills r esponsive t o w omen's ne eds s hould ha ve be en i ncluded
extensively a long w ith l inkages t o m icro-credit, m arkets, a nd m icroenterprises de velopment
service providers in the future projects.




                                                  44
7.3    Any n ew c ommunity i nfrastructure pr oject s hould be i ntegrated with t he e xisting
community infrastructure facilities, and trainings for design, implementation and operations and
maintenance need to be provided in a timely manner.

7.4     Resources f or c ommunity d evelopment ( staff and ope rational bud gets) ne ed t o be
strengthened further in area of community mobilization. M ore training opportunities should be
provided at the district level to increase the participation of officers especially in remote districts.

7.5     Officers r esponsible f or c arrying out pr oject a ctivities a t e ach di strict s hould ha ve be en
full time because it w as difficult for many officers to carry out both normative LGRDD work as
well as project implementation.

7.6     In order to support field activities, vehicles had to be provided to key project officers at
both t he c entral of fice a nd e ach di strict. F ield ope ration c an't be c arried out w ithout
transportation.




                                                     45
        Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


I. Summary of Borrower's ICR:

   Azad J ammu & K ashmir w ith a n a rea of 13297 S q. K m ha s popul ation of 3.1 m illion.
   About 88% of the population lives in rural areas and 12% in urban areas. An IDA assisted
   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program (RWSSP), spreading 8 years implementation
   span a nd c osting a bout 1210 m illion P KR w as c ompleted b y the LGRDD i n 2000.
   Performance of t his P rogram w as r ated hi ghly s atisfactory. U nder t his pr oject 1600
   drinking w ater s upply schemes f or a popul ation of one m illion w ere i mplemented.
   Majority o f t hese s chemes w ere f unctioning u nder f ormal an d i nformal a rrangements o f
   the b eneficiary c ommunities. P ursuing th e s uccessful imp lementation o f th is p rogram
   Govt. of Azad Jammu & Kashmir plan and implement Community Infrastructure Services
   Program (CISP) with the financial assistance of IDA. The major objectives of the project
   were:
   a)      Poverty alleviation and improvement of health indicators

   b)      Focus on improving the well being of low-income communities

   c)      Capacity building at local levels for good governance

   d)      Encouraging community participation in local development

   Major proportion of funds were proposed to be spent on providing infrastructure services
   including Water Supply, Sanitation, Access(Roads and Bridges), Street Pavement,
   Footpath, Drainage, Street Light etc.


   Initially t he pr oject w as pl anned f or 04 years a nd i ts c ost w as e stimated on 1764.87
   million P KR ( 27.15 U SD) b ut p roject imp lementation w as s eriously affected b y th e
   October 2005 e arthquake. A fter t he e arthquake, pr oject a ctivities be came s tand s till,
   project o ffices w ere co llapsed, 8 0 C BOs u nder t he p roject w ere d isintegrated/dislocated
   and a t otal num ber of 2 67 s chemes c osting R s. 47 m illion P KR w ere da maged. A fter
   earthquake the project period was extended up to November 30, 2008 with original credit
   amount. Project has been successfully completed in the extended project period, however


                                              46
it is p ertinent to m ention th at h as s uccessfully utilized s avings a mounting 2 88 millio n
PKR gained due fluctuation in exchange rate of various currencies.


Under C ISP pr oject m ore t han 500 community o rganizations a re formed and r egistered
and 3420 community i nfrastructure s chemes a re i mplemented i n 457 c ommunities
through these community based organizations. These 457 community based organizations
are now s ustainable i nstitutions a nd a re t rained i n va rious f ields s uch a s O &M of
schemes, c ommunity action pl anning, H ealth E nvironment a nd S anitation, R ecord
Keeping etc. these organized community organizations are now approaching GoAJK, and
other donors for socio-economic development of their area. Many of these organizations
are now self sustainable.




                                          47
Project Name:                        AJK Community Infrastructure Services Program (CISP)
Implementation Period:               77 months (July 2002 to November 2008)

Commencement                                  Revised
                      Completion Date
   Date                                    Completion Date
                                            November 30,
    July 2002          June 30, 2006
                                               2008

Capital Cost of the Project:
          Planned                          Actual
          1764.87                         2052.553

Phasing of PC-1, year-wise PSDP allocations, releases and expenditures is given below:

            Phasing
                         PSDP
  Year       as per                    Releases       Expenditure
                       Allocations
              PC-I

2002-03 239.980          269.981       63.306           35.555
2003-04 509.960          337.324       162.600          151.723
2004-05 539.960          453.749       314.727          337.849
2005-06 474.960          602.000       240.781          211.484
2006-07 -                213.135       153.712          168.610
2007-08 -                212.000       363.365          436.434
2008-09 -                223.272       402.725          471.696
  Total     1764.87     2311.461       1701.216        1813.351
Expenditure against community share                     239.202
Total Project Cost                                     2052.553




Item-wise Physical targets and Achievements:
Project was divided into three components (i.e. Decentralized Planning & Implementation,
Community Development, Community Infrastructure). These three components were further
divided into sub components. Item-wise physical targets and progress is as under:




                                                 48
1. Decentralized Planning & Implementation:
       This component was to develop the capacity of state, district/tehsil staff and communities
including other partners such as NGOs through:
       (i)     Technical assistance for capacity building and training
       (ii)    Additional and incremental staff
       (iii) O perational activities
       (iv)    In country and overseas study visits
       (v)     Special studies on water quality, baseline survey etc.

Detail of activities performed under this component is as follows

             Description                PCI Target                  Achievement
                                          58 man
Technical Assistance                                            28 man months
                                          months
                                                                     01 Job
                                           1 Job
Water Quality Testing                                     (water quality of 650 water
                                                                 supplies tested)
                                                                     02 jobs
Baseline Survey/Project Evaluation        2 Jobs           (One baseline survey, one
                                                            project evaluation study)
              Overseas Training           One Job           One Job (09 study trips)
Trainings/
              Staff Trainings               23                       23 Events
Workshops
              Workshops 20                                      20 Workshops

   2. Community Development:
     The main thrust of this component was to encourage communities, particularly women, to
     participate i n de cision m aking t o i ncrease o wnership of t he pr oject f or l ong t erm
     sustainability. Activities of this component were categorized as follows:
     (i)       Awareness raising, mobilization, and organization of communities
     (ii)      Improving personal, domestic, and community hygiene
     (iii)     Develop s kills a mong women i n c ommunity development a nd pr omote t he
               formation of women's groups for CD activities.
     (iv)      Facilitate women's access to formal micro credit system




                                                 49
    Detail of events/activities completed under this component are as follows:
                                                             PC-1           Actual
                    Item                            Unit
                                                           Estimates Achievement
CBOs Formed                                         No.       425              584
CBO Registered                                     No.       425            584
Community Action Plans Prepared                    No.       425            545
Community Contracts Signed & Completed             No.       425            457
Community Development Trainings                   Events      28             28

     Detail of activities conducted for strengthening of communities/CBOs is as follows:
                                                                      Persons
S.No                   Name of Training
                                                              Target      Achievement
  1  Leadership training                                           3,400
  2  CAP training                                                  3,400             459
  3  Treasure/procurement/CAP Training                               850             633
  4  Activist Training                                             2,125
  5  Orientation to communities                                    2,125              25
  6  Cross visit (AJK)                                             2,125             136
  7  Cross visit (outside AJK)                                       850             174
  8  Construction training                                         6,375
  9  Skill development (income generation) men                   17,000              317
 10 Participatory Reflection and Action (PRA)                                         60
 11 Training Need Assessment Workshops                                                20
 12 Process Monitoring Workshop                                                        7
 13 Water quality testing workshops                                                  750
 14     Training of trainers                                          25            123
 15 H    ESA training                                               3,400         4,000
 16     Healthy home training                                       4,250           750
 17 O    &M training                                                2,125           750
 18     Household material (Kits)                                   4,250           750
 19     HESA Material (Kits)                                        3,400         4,000
 20 E    ntry community activities                                      0
 21 F    unctional/economic education                              17,000
 22     Develop micro credit linkages                               8,500            42
 23     Women and children initiatives                             17,000         1,000




                                             50
   3. Community Infrastructure:

   This c omponent w as t o provide i nvestment on ph ysical i nfrastructure w orks pr ioritized i n
   consultation with the CBOs. This component was demand driven and infrastructure schemes
   were selected according to the priorities of communities. Appropriate design and construction
   standards were used for community level construction, maintenance, and affordability.

    Following was the requirement of this component:
       (i)    Size of community in rural and urban areas should be not less than 500 a nd 1000
              people respectively.
       (ii)   Community should organize itself as a legal entity in form of CBO.
       (iii) Land a nd water s ource s hould be de dicated f ree of c ost t o t he publ ic us e i n t he
              community.
       (iv)   Community should contribute at least 20% construction cost of works except for
              trunk/ primary works.
       (v)    Community s hould be a ble t o m anage t he completed s chemes a nd b ear 100%
              O&M costs.
       (vi)   Community should undertake construction responsibilities at sites.

       Detail of community infrastructure schemes developed under this component is as
       follows:
                    Item                          Unit        PC-1          Actual
                                                           Estimates      Achievement
Water Supply Schemes                                   Nos.          1272              839

Community Latrines                                     Nos.          780              1465

Storm water Drainage                                    LM         247812            45421

Internal Pathways (Road, Footpaths)                     KM           306               536

Foot Bridges                                            LM           4044              680

Street Pavement                                         LM          68245            423065
                                                       No. of
Street Lighting                                                      541 535
                                                       Poles
                                                       No. of
Solid Waste Management                                               495 70
                                                        Bins
Tagging Numbering of streets                            Job            1                0
Trunk Infrastructure/Micro Hydal Station/
                                                       Nos. 7                          47
Others

Lessons Learned:
AJK g overnment h as l earned a num ber of l essons a t va rious s tages of t he pr oject. T he m ajor
lessons learned are as follows:



                                                  51
1) Allocation of realistic budget for activities: while preparing t he p roject document/PC-1
   funds for activities should be allocated realistically, and some amount should be reserved
   as t o m eet t he pr ice hi ke/market c hanges. In P C-1 unr ealistic a llocation of f unds f or
   activities b ecomes a major h urdle in imp lementing th e a ctivities a s p er p roject
   document/PC-1. Sometimes it becomes difficult to achieve the physical targets as per the
   project document.

2) Livelihood component should be included in community based projects: In community
   based de velopment pr ojects, l ivelihood c omponent s hould be i ncluded t o e nsure t he
   sustainability of community organizations as well as community infrastructure. It will be
   a better a pproach t o s trengthen t he communities e conomically b y exploring and us ing
   rural resources so that they can develop the required infrastructure by their own.

3) Environment friendly sub project should be encouraged: Environment f riendly s ub
   project s uch s olid w aste m anagement, w ater harvesting/recharge p rojects an d cl ean
   development m echanism ( CDM) i nitiatives t o m inimize the c arbon f ootprint s hould b e
   encouraged under the project.

4) Separate Women CBOs should be focused: CISP was the first community based project
   in AJK focusing on gender issues. In this project 30% women participation was required.
   Although the women participation is good enough but to ensure and enhance the role of
   rural w omen i n de velopment s eparate w omen C BOs s hould be f ormed/promoted f or
   development.

5) More authorities should be delegated to the project management for timely
   implementation of the project: Project management should be strengthen and given more
   power for timely decision making to ensure the timely completion of project.

6) M&E framework should be simple and comprehensive: M&E framework s hould be
   simple a nd c omprehensive s o, t hat i t c ould b e i mplemented i n t rue s pirit. P roper M &E
   staff and equipment should be provided for proper implementation of M&E.

7) Comprehensive baseline should be conducted before starting the project:
   Comprehensive baseline survey should be conducted in the project area before starting the
   project, so that the evaluation of project can be done at the project completion to measure
   the difference/impact.

8) Appointments on project should be for the project life: Appointments on project should
   be made for the project period. Project staff should not be transferred during the project
   duration.

9) Trainings should be conducted in the early stage of the project to get maximum
   benefits: Trainings and experience sharing visits should be conducted in the early stage of
   the project to get maximum benefit from the trained staff.

                                              52
   II. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR

The comments of Project Management on ICRR are as follows:
   1) The disbursed amount (22.3m) is stated in SDR whereas one withdrawal application (CISP-102)
       amounting USD 254412.91/- is still pending which is not included in the disbursed amount. So the
       total disbursed amount is 22.55m USD (i.e. 22.3m + 0.2544 m)*.

   2) After earthquake in 2005, the beneficiary communities were displaced/disintegrated largely and
       took more than one year to come back to the original location/position. Moreover reconstruction
       of houses was the top priority of the communities after earthquake, which was major hurdle in the
       progress of the project.

   3) Section 2.3 In last one and half year M&E section regularly prepared the Work plans, and
      monitored the progress of the project, M&E section also conducted a series of review
      workshops/meetings to find out the problems/hurdles and presented recommendations to
      the higher management and government (e.g. increase in financial powers i.e.
      decentralization, to conduct activities for training of CBOs, Hiring of CD consultant,
      transfer and appointment of staff etc.) This activity was a stimulator and main factor to
      gear up the progress of the project up to a maximum level. All these documents (work
      plans, reports, minutes of review workshops/meetings, procurement plans, Quarterly
      progress Reports, Graphs and Table Data) were shared with the ICRR mission but not
      reported in the report.

   4) Section 6.5 : Project experienced the outsourcing social mobilization and community
      development component thrice in the project period but this approach resulted as delay in
      implementation. Before earthquake the project hired services of three different
      firms/individuals (NESPAK, IDC, Abdul Hameed Khan-CD Specialist) for social
       mobilization and community development. None of the firms/individual completed task as per
       given specifications/standards and time. This resulted as delay in implementation in the early
       years of the project. Later on the task was taken up by project employed CD staff and was
       completed well in time. The project employed CD staff is well experienced and can be utilized
       effectively by providing more resources (i.e. mobility and trainings). However the activities for
       strengthening of CBOs were outsourced and completed successfully.

   5) Section 2.2.3 CISP was the first project in AJK in which gender mainstreaming was
      introduced, and women were involved in development activities. The response is
      encouraging but needs more attention.

   6) Section 2.3: In the table data on following trainings is missing*:
             Training Name                                 CBO Members
             CAP Training                                  219+240 = 459 Participants
             Training need assessment                      20 Participants
             Process monitoring       7                       Participants
             Water quality testing                         750 Participants
             Training of Trainers                          123 Participants
             Household Material Kits         750                Kits
             HESA Material Kits                            4000 Material kits


                                                   53
           Microcredit linkages    42                     CBOs

7) Improvement in environmental conditions due to construction of streets, sewerage
   schemes is and improvement of rural roads/pathways (i.e. soil erosion, sanitation,
   drainage) is not highlighted in the report.

   * Based on these comments relevant sections have been reviewed and revised.




                                           54
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                         55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Government of Pakistan Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas, Planning & Monitoring
      Cell (2009), Concept Clearance Proposal for Community Infrastructure and Services Project
      Phase II
   2. Government of Pakistan Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and Planning, Planning Division
      (2002), Planning Commission Document-1 (PC-1) for Community Infrastructure and Services
      Project
   3. Government of Pakistan Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and Planning, Planning Division
      (2009), Planning Commission Document-1 (PC-1) for post-completion Community
      Infrastructure and Services Project, Interim Period December 200 to June 2009
   4. Human Resource Development Society (HRDS), Islamabad (2008), Training Program for
      Community Based Organizations (CBOs) on Health, Environment, Sanitation and Awareness
      (HESA) under AJK Community Infrastructure & Services Program (CISP)
   5. Integrated Rural Development Organization (IRDO), Islamabad (2005), National Baseline
      Survey Report, GoAJK-LG&RDD Community Infrastructure Services Program
   6. Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International Development Association (2002), AJK Community
      Infrastructure and Services Project, Credit Number 3689 PAK, Development Credit Agreement
   7. International Development Association and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (2002), AJK Community
      Infrastructure and Services Project, Credit Number 3689 PAK, Project Agreement
   8. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD) (2002), Community and
      Institutional Development Study, prepared by Dr. Hamid-ur-Rehman
   9. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD) (2002), Community Wide
      Information Strategy and Implementation, prepared by KZR Associates
   10. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD) (2002), AJK Community
       Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), Operational Manual, Main Guidelines
   11. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD), GoAJK (2008), Community
       Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), Quarterly Progress/Monitoring Reports, Quarters
       1-3
   12. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD), GoAJK (2009), Community
       Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), Quarterly Progress Monitoring, 2nd Quarter 2008-
       09
   13. Monitoring & Evaluation Unit of AJK Community Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP),
       (2009), Database on Community Infrastructure Schemes, CBOs, Project costs and
       expenditure, Disbursements records, Technical Assistance, Vehicles, Equipment and Operating
       costs
   14. Qazi, Mahjabeen (2008), Sustainability Study, Community Infrastructure and Services Project
       (CISP) Azad Jammu and Kashmir
   15. Socio-Economic and Business Consultants (SEBCON), Islamabad (2009), End-term Project
       Evaluation Report of Community Infrastructure Services Program, LG&RDD, GoAJK
   16. The World Bank (2002) Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Credit in the Amount
       of US$ 20.0 Million equivalent to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the AJK Community
       Infrastructure and Services Project


                                                56
17. The World Bank (2005) Project Information Document (PID) on the AJK Community
    Infrastructure and Services Project (AJK CISP) ­ Earthquake Additional Financing (Category Z
    project, AJK ERP), Appraisal Stage, November 2005
18. The World Bank (2004) Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report.
19. The World Bank (2006) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services Project,
    (Cr. 3689-PAK and Cr. 3689-I-PAK), Extension of Closing Date and Reallocation of Credit
    Proceeds
20. The World Bank (2006) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services Project,
    (Cr. 3689-PAK and Cr. 3689-I-PAK), Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
21. The World Bank (March 2004) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services
    Project, Aid Memoire of IDA Supervision Mission, January 2004
22. The World Bank (March 2005) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services
    Project, Implementation Review Mission, Aide Memoire, January-February 2005
23. The World Bank (June 2005) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services
    Project, Implementation Review Mission, Aid Memoire of Mid-Term Review, April-May 2005
24. The World Bank (October 2006) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services
    Project, Aid Memoire of Implementation Review Mission, September 2006
25. The World Bank (June 2007) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services
    Project, Implementation Review Mission, Aide Memoire, May 2007
26. The World Bank (April 2008) Islamabad Office, AJK Community Infrastructure and Services
    Project, Aid Memoire of Implementation Review Mission, February/March 2008
27. The World Bank, Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISRs) # 1-13 Archived
28. Z ehra, Maheen (2005), Sustainability Study, Community Infrastructure and Services Project
    (CISP), Azad Jammu and Kashmir
29. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD), GoAJK (2009), Community
    Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), Project files of all the visited schemes.
30. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD), GoAJK (2009), Community
    Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), project books maintained by CBOs at all the visited
    villages.
31. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD), GoAJK (2009), Community
    Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), Measurement books of the visited projects.
32. Human Resource Development Society (HRDS), Islamabad (2009), Water Quality Test Reports
    for all the eight districts of AJK.
33. Local Government & Rural Development Department (LGRDD), GoAJK (2009), Community
    Infrastructure and Services Project (CISP), Public Works Department, Schedule of rates for year
    1998 and onwards
34. Government of Punjab, Pakistan, rates for civil works and items prepared for Muree and Gujrat on
    quarterly basis for years 2007-08.




                                               57
