Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14158
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
(CREDIT 1911-GH)
MARCH 29, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Central-Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of May 10, 1994)
Currency Unit =      Cedis
US$1          =      C920.75
el            =      US$0.67
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          Agricultural Development Bank
BBG          Barclays Bank (Ghana)
BCC          Bank for Credit and Commerce
BHC          Bank for Housing and Construction
COOP         Cooperative Bank
CDH          Consolidated Discount House
ERP          Economic Recovery Program
FINSAC I    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit I
FINSAC II   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit II
GCB          Ghana Commercial Bank
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GSE          Ghana Stock Exchange
ICAG         Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana
IFC          International Finance Corporation
MB           Merchant Bank
M2           Broad Money
NIB          National Investment Bank
NPART        Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
NSCB         National Savings and Credit Bank
ODA          Overseas Development Authority
PCR          Project Completion Report
PEED         Private Enterprise and Export Development
SCB          Standard Chartered Bank
SSB          Social Security Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:       Project Completion Report on Ghana
Financial Sector Adiustment Credit I (Credit 1911-GH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report for the Ghana Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
I (Credit 191 1-GH) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by
the Borrower.
The main objective of the project was to support the first phase of a financial sector adjustment
program aimed at: liberalizing the banking environment so as to improve the efficiency of resource
mobilization and allocation; restructuring distressed banks; strengthening the banking regulatory and
supervisory framework; and developing financial and capital markets.
The overall implementation of the project progressed well. The liberalization of the financial
environment has now been largely completed with the removal of interest rate ceilings and sectoral
credit targets. A new regulatory framework has been introduced by an amended Banking Law and the
banking supervision function has been adequately strengthened. A banking restructuring program has
also been initiated and the development of money and capital markets has had a modest start.
The reforms in Ghana's financial sector have resulted in the restoration of financial soundness
in the banking system and have contributed to an increase in the range of available banking services as
a result of the entry of new merchant banks. However, there has been little impact on financial
deepening and banking competition remains stifled by the slow pace of privatization of the state-owned
banks.   The Bank's follow-on project-Financial Sector Adjustment Credit II, approved in
FY92-supports the divestiture of some of these banks.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Institutional development is rated as substantial
and sustainability as likely.
The PCR is of good quality. It provides a good assessment of the project's implementation
experience and results. A combined audit of this project and the follow-on operation is planned.
Francisco          acasa
Acting Director- eneral
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
Contents
Page
Preface  ...................................................                                 i
Evaluation Sumary ..............  i
I.   Project Review From the Bank's Perspective              ..                             1
1.     Project Identity  ....................................    1
2.   Background                  ..1.................... 
a.     The Economy  ................................    1
b.     The Financial Sector ............................    1
3.     Project Objectives, Design, Preparation and Execution ....        ........   3
a. Objectives.                                                              3
b.  Design and Phasing of Reforms.                                          3
c.  Project Preparation.                                                    4
4.  Implementation Performance               ..                                     5
a.     Liberalization of Financial and Banking Environment.                 5
b.   The Legal and Regulatory Framework.                                    5
c.   Bank Supervision by Bank of Ghana.                                     6
d.   The Restructuring of Distressed Banks.                                 6
e.   Recovery of Non-Performing Assets.                                     8
f.     Development of Money and Capital Markets ....           .........    8
g.     Corporate Restructuring ..........................    9
h.     Strengthening the Accounting and Auditing Profession ... ...    10
i.     Training of Bankers  ...........................    10
5.     Project Results and Sustainability ........................    11
a.     Results Regarding Specific Program Component  ....         .....    11
b.     Impact on Financial Sector Overall ..................    13
c.     Sustainability ................................    15
6.      IDA Performance ..................................    16
7.     Borrower's Performance ..............................    16
8.     Lessons Learned  ..................................    17
II.    Project Review From Borrower's Perspective  ....... ..             ...........    19
1.     Background .................................                                19
2.      Project Description and Implementation  .......        .............    20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   l



Page
3.     Loan Disbursement ..................                                         20
4.      Lessons Learned  ..................                                         21
HI.    Staistical Ifformation        ............               ............                22
1.     Related Bank Loans & Credits ..........................    22
2.     Credit Data ......................................    22
3.     Credit Processing Timetable  ...........................    23
4.      Mission Data .....................................    23
ANNEXES
A      Policy Matrix  .........................................    24
B       Financial Statements of Seven Restructured Banks  .................... 30
C       Loan Portfolio Classification of Restructured Banks  ................... 32
D      Aggregate Balance Sheets of All Banks  ........................... 33
E       Aggregate Income Statements of All Banks ......................... 34
F       Selected Data on Financial Intermediation .......................... 35



i
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
(Credit 1911-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit I (FINSAC I) to Ghana for an original amount equivalent to US$100
million approved on May 31, 1988. This amount was subsequently increased to US$106.6
million equivalent through a supplementary IDA Credit. The Credit was signed on June 14
and declared effective on August 11, 1988. The original closing date of September 30, 1990
was subsequently extended to December 31, 1992 to allow the Government additional time to
complete disbursements for the technical assistance components. The Credit was followed by
a second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II) for US$100 million equivalent
approved by IDA on December 19, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division (AF4IE) of the
(then) Western Africa Department (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Report and Recommendations of the
President, the Development Credit Agreement, Supervision Reports, correspondence between
IDA and the Borrower and internal Bank documents.






iii
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.           To arrest the protracted economic decline which started in the 1970s, a new
Government in Ghana adopted, in 1983, an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) containing
several bold reforms. It devalued the currency, eliminated subsidies, deregulated most price
and distribution controls and introduced some necessary fiscal and budgetary measures. The
economy's response to the ERP has since been very positive, with economic growth averaging
about 5% per year over the period 1984-93. IDA has supported these reforms with three
Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs) approved, respectively, in 1988, 1989 and 1991.
The Financial Sector
2.           IDA's work on the Ghanaian financial sector started in 1985, at a time when
the latter was in severe distress. This situation represented a serious constraint to growth in
the real sectors of the economy which had begun to show promising signs of recovery under
the ERP. A major financial sector review was carried out in 1987, which identified a large
number of sector deficiencies. These included an insolvent banking system dominated by
State-owned banks and saddled with huge non-performing loans and excessive intermediation
costs; a low level of financial intermediation reflecting a poor record in domestic resources
mobilization; inefficient credit allocation partly on account of Central Bank-directed interest
rates and sectoral credit targets; the virtual absence of a money market and capital market,
and the weakness of the supervision of the banking system by BOG and the overall
inadequacies of the regulatory framework. The above mentioned diagnosis formed the basis
for the formulation and adoption of a comprehensive Action Program containing measures
aimed at restructuring distressed banks, strengthening the regulatory and supervisory
framework, developing financial and capital markets, and more generally, liberalizing the
financial sector environment so as to improve the efficiency of resource mobilization and
credit allocation. That initial Action Program was supported by the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FINSAC I) approved in 1988, and was followed by an enhanced reform
program supported by the subsequent FINSAC II approved in 1991.
3.            The formal financial system which has grown and diversified in recent years
is comprised of the Central Bank, the Bank of Ghana (BOG), six commercial banks, three
specialized banks, three merchant banks, a cooperative bank and over 100 rural banks. The
six commercial banks, including Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), Standard Chartered Bank of
Ghana (SCB), Barclays Bank of Ghana (Barclays), Social Security Bank (SSB), National
Saving and Credit Bank (NSCB) and the recently established Meridien-BIAO of Ghana, have
over 80% of the total assets and deposits in the system. GCB continues to dominate the
system with over 50% of the assets and deposits of the banking system, but its market share
of net loans has declined to about one-third and is expected to decline further with growing
competition and the entry of new banks in the market. The three former development finance
institutions, Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), National Investment Bank (NIB) and
Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) have introduced commercial banking services.
Pending the forthcoming banking divestiture program, most banks are either partly or wholly
owned by the Government, although the latter's shareholding in some major banks (e.g.,
SCB, Barclays) is small and the management of these banks rests entirely with its private
shareholders. Two private merchant banks, Ecobank Ghana Ltd. and Continental



iv
Acceptances, were established in 1990. These institutions and the previously existing
Merchant Bank, take corporate deposits, finance trade and industry, provide advisory services
and manage money and capital market activities such as underwriting, trading on the Stock
Exchange, privatization, mergers and acquisitions and debenture issues. There are a number
of significant non-bank institutions in Ghana that are not regulated by the Banking Act, but
came under the jurisdiction of a separate Non-Bank Financial Institutions Act promulgated
recently in 1993. The capital market is in its embryonic stage. A newly formed Stock
Exchange commenced trading in November 1990.
Processing of Credit
4.           The preparation of FINSAC I was preceded by intensive economic and
financial sector work. A first financial sector mission, in 1985, identified fundamental
problems and recommended a wide-ranging program of reforms, embodied in an Action
Program agreed with the Government and subsequently incorporated in the Policy Matrix
under FINSAC I. The Initiating Memorandum was approved by the Operations Committee
on December 10, 1987, followed immediately, in late February, by appraisal. The Credit
was negotiated in April, approved by the Board on May 31 and declared effective on August
11, 1988. The original amount of US$100 million equivalent was subsequently increased to
US$106.6 million through a Supplementary IDA Credit. The adjustment program was
cofinanced by a loan in Japanese yen equivalent to US$93.9 million from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund, and a grant in Swiss Francs equivalent to US$11.8 million by
the Government of the Swiss Confederation. The second tranche (US$30 million) was
released in June 1990, and the third tranche (US$20 million) in December 1990. The original
closing date of September 30, 1990 was subsequently extended to December 31, 1992, to
allow additional time for disbursements of the technical assistance component. That
significant delay was attributable to the initial over-optimistic estimate of implementation
pace, and to the Government's deliberate and, therefore, time-consuming approach to
implementing complex reforms, such as bank restructuring.
Design and Objectives of Program
5.           The financial sector adjustment program supported by FINSAC I was designed
to deal selectively, and in priority, with the more fundamental and urgent problems
confronting the Ghanaian financial sector back in 1988. These included:
(a)   the potential collapse of some major banks which were technically insolvent;
(b)   the lack of confidence in the banking system on the part of the public;
(c)   the absence of an appropriate regulatory and prudential framework for
banking activities; and
(d)   the weakness of banking supervision by Bank of Ghana, the central bank.
Consequently, the main objectives of the Credit were to:
(i)   liberalize the environment for banking operations through the removal
of interest rate controls and sectoral credit targets;



v
(ii)   enhance the soundness of banking institutions by putting in place a
new legal, regulatory and prudential framework;
(iii)  strengthen the banking supervision function of BOG;
(iv)   restructure financially distressed banking institutions following the
adoption of a suitable framework and the formulation of institution-
specific restructuring plans; and
(v)    attempt to recover to the extent possible, the non-performing assets
taken over from distressed banks.
In addition, other objectives supported by the Credit included:
(vi)  initiating the development of the money and capital market
(vii)  initiating a study on the need and modalities for corporate
restructuring;
(viii)  strengthening the accounting and auditing profession; and
(ix)   training of bank managers and staff.
Implementation Performance
6.            Notwithstanding some delay attributable to the complexity of the reform
program (para 4 above), implementation of the Credit has been, generally, highly satisfactory.
IDA's satisfaction with the results of FINSAC I led it to approve a follow-on operation,
FINSAC II, some three years later, in December 1991. As noted below, each of the specific
program objectives, as listed in the preceding paragraph 5, by-and-large, has been
satisfactorily achieved:
(e)    The liberalization of the financid and banking envirornent has now been
largely completed, with the removal of ceilings on banking interest rates and
other charges, and the abolition of all sectoral credit targets. The more liberal
environment has probably been a factor encouraging the recent establishment
in Ghana of new banks, of a merchant/investment type. This has resulted in a
broadening and diversification of the banking system, enhancing the range of
banking services available to enterprises.
(f)    The new legal and regulatory framework for the banking activities introduced
by the Amended Banking Law of August 1989 is appropriate. The new
legislation provides the banks with a set of prudential regulations to comply
with in order to ensure their sound financial operations, and the BOG with the
necessary monitoring instruments for exercising its supervisory function over
the banks. Furthermore, as of end-1993, all banks operating in Ghana,
including the seven State-owned restructured banks (with the exception of the
small COOP Bank) are in compliance with major prudential guidelines (e.g.,
capital adequacy, minimum capital).



vi
(g)    The banking supervision function of the BOG, previously deficient, has been
adequately strengthened. The Banking Supervision Department of BOG has
developed its capacity both qualitatively and quantitatively, and by 1993 has
been able to comply with the requirement, set out in the 1989 Banking Act, to
undertake the inspection of all banks on a yearly basis. BOG's regular and
systematic monitoring of the prudential ratios of individual banks has enabled
it to ascertain that by 1992 and 1993, all Ghanaian banks, including the seven
State-owned banks with the exception of the COOP Bank (slated for merger
with a stronger bank) are in compliance with all major prudential regulations,
such as capital adequacy, liquidity, minimum capitalization and lending and
exposure limits.
(h)    The bank restructuring program, a key component of FINSAC I, so far, has
generally been implemented successfully. Six of the seven State-owned banks
are now operating profitably following their restructuring. They have
experienced a steady improvement in their operational efficiency (as reflected
in operating ratios) and in the condition of their loan portfolios. The only
exception is the relatively small Cooperative Bank, which, up to 1993, has not
been included in the Government's banking restructuring program. This bank
remains insolvent following its recent receivership by Bank of Ghana, and it is
in the process of being merged with one of the stronger State-owned banks.
The restored sound financial condition and profitability of these six banks is
expected to facilitate their forthcoming privatization, in particular, that of the
two largest, namely GCB and SSB, which are scheduled for the initial phase
of divestiture under the follow-on FINSAC II. The longer-term sustainability
of the restructured banks' good performance, however, remains to be seen as
it would depend to a large extent on the eventual outcome of their planned
privatization.
(i)   In regard to the recovery of non-performing assets, the performance of
NPART (the specially created collection agency) to date has been adequate.
As of September 30, 1993, it has effectively collected ¢9.0 billion, or 50% of
the overall target amount (¢18 billion) but about 95% of the prorated
recovery target, which was based on an account-by-account review of its
portfolio, and therefore, reflected in a realistic assessment (with the
concurrence of IDA staff) of the extent of recoverable assets.
(j)    With respect of the development of the money and capital market, a
satisfactory, albeit modest, start has also been made. Money market
operations are now transacted by two specialized financial institutions, namely
Consolidated Discount House which was subject to an institutional
strengthening action plan supported by FINSAC 1, and the subsequently
established Securities Discount Company Limited. Both these are operating
profitably and in the process of broadening the range of their operations. In
regard to the capital market, the Ghana Stock Exchange, established under and
supported by FINSAC I, is providing an infrastructure necessary for the
future development of the securities market, although the scale of its
operations remains modest.



vii
(k)    The study on corporate restructuring (i.e., restructuring of potentially viable
enterprises) was carried out under FINSAC I, although the results of the
consultant study are not evident beyond the identification of a number of
potentially viable enterprises. Restructuring assistance to the latter was
intended to be provided under separate IDA-supported investment project
(PEED), although the extent of such assistance to date cannot yet be
determined.
()    The objective of strengthening the accounting and audting professions has
been pursued systematically, and this has resulted in significant improvements
in the institutional capability of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ghana (ICAG), and the latter's ongoing work toward the development of a
uniform set of accounting standards.
(m)   The emphasis on training and more generally on human resource development
under FINSAC I has resulted both in the strengthening of the Ghana Institute
of Bankers, an educational institution common to Ghanaian banks, and the
professional training of a significant number (260 by 1992) of staff from both
BOG and the Ghanaian banks.
7.           While implementation performance has been highly satisfactory in terms of the
specific program components (e.g., bank restructuring, regulatory framework, banking
supervision), there remain areas in the Ghanaian financial sector overall in which further
improvements are needed. These include:
(n)   the need for the Central Bank to pursue open market operations only to
smooth seasonal variations and not be used to fund the Government's overall
deficit;
(o)   the need to aggressively speed up the divestiture and privatization process of
the Government banks to increase the level of competitiveness within the
financial sector;
(p)   the degree of financial deepening of the economy (M2/GDP), which remains
shallow in Ghana, at 17% in 1992;
(q)    gross domestic savings, which are low at 2% of GDP in 1992; and
(r)    private sector credits were 4.6% of GDP in 1992.
Sustainability
8.           The sustainability of the reforms and actions undertaken under FINSAC I
derives, amongst other things, from the fact that the reform program was not conceived of as
a one-shot undertaking. Rather, it was designed as the first phase of a continuing sectoral
adjustment process. In line with that thinking, some three years after its inception (in 1988)
and following its successful implementation, FINSAC I was followed by the subsequent
FINSAC II approved by IDA in December 1991. Apart from introducing additional sector
reforms (e.g., privatization of restructured banks, non-bank financial institutions;
improvements in monetary control), FINSAC II included the explicit objective of helping



viii
Ghana consolidate those reforms already initiated under the preceding FINSAC 1. Thus, the
bank restructuring program started under FINSAC I continues to receive IDA's support under
FINSAC It toward the forthcoming provatization of most of the restructured parastatal banks.
In regard to the recovery of non-performing assets, the preparatory and legal work toward
establishing NPART started under FINSAC I, but NPART actually started its operations
under FINSAC II. The extensive institution - building and training programs (e.g., Institute
of Chartered Accountants, Ghana Institute of Bankers) initiated under FINSAC I continue to
this day to receive support under FINSAC II. This continuum between these two successive
operations goes a long way in ensuring the sustabability of reforms and action undertaken
under the initial program. Apart from the foregoing, the sustainability of reforms is enhanced
by the Government's continuing strong commitment to the reform process. To further ensure
sustainability, it would be advisable for IDA and other Donors to be prepared to continue
providing technical assistance (e.g., logistical support, training) on a gradually diminishing
scale over the next few years to selected program implementation agencies (e.g., BOG,
ICAG, GSE, Institute of Bankers).
Lesons
9.            The main lessons drawn from FINSAC I implementation are:
(s)    intensive economic and sector work preceding preparation/appraisal of a
financial sector adjustment operation helps expedite its processing without
sacrificing quality;
(t)    a financial sector adjustment operation stands a better chance of success when
it is implemented in the aftermath and in the broader context of a broader
macroeconomic adjustment program;
(u)    it would have been useful to have a pre-established set of financial sector
performance indicators (e.g., financial savings, private sector credit, portfolio
classification of banking sysxtem), as a built-in device for periodically
monitoring sector performance during program implementation;
(v)    in parallel with IDA's assistance for restructuring seven State-owned
distressed banks, it would have been appropriate from the outset to press for a
more forceful rationalization of these banks (i.e., a reduction in their number)
through mergers and/or liquidations;
(w)   it may be operationally useful to undertake a cross-country comparative
review of the relative effectiveness of the alternative modalities for recovering
the non-performing assets of distressed or failed banks; and
(x)   the important role of technical assistance in implementing this financial sector
adjustment program.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
NAME:               Financial Sector Adjustment Credit I (FINSAC I)
CREDIT NUMBER:  1911-GH
RVP UNIT:           AFR Region
COUNTRY:            Ghana
TYPE OF LOAN:    Sector Adjustment Loan
2.    Background
a.    The Economy
2.1           Ghana once enjoyed a relatively high standard of living compared with other
West African countries, but poor economic management during the 1970s and the early 1980s
led to a protracted economic decline. Expansionary fiscal and monetary policies caused
inflation to accelerate. This, together with a fixed nominal exchange rate caused a substantial
real appreciation of the currency, leading to external payments imbalances and encouraging
policy makers to impose a range of administrative controls on prices, imports, foreign
exchange use and the distribution of goods and services. The cumulative effect of these
developments precipitated a downward economic spiral from 1970 to 1982, with Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) declines of -2% per annum.
2.2          In 1983, the new Government adopted an Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
and introduced several bold measures. It devalued the currency, dismantled most price and
distribution controls, eliminated subsidies, raised taxes selectively, improved tax collection
and provided more adequately for maintenance and capital expenditure. Despite infrastructure
bottlenecks, delays in aid flows and the temporary but crippling drought of 1983, the
economy's response to the ERP was almost immediate. Economic growth has averaged about
5% a year over the period 1984-92.
b.    The Financial Sector
2.3          The formal financial system which has grown and diversified in recent years
is comprised of the central bank, the Bank of Ghana (BOG), six commercial banks, three
specialized banks, three merchant banks, a cooperative bank and over 100 rural banks. The
six commercial banks, including Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), Standard Chartered Bank of
Ghana (SCB), Barclays Bank of Ghana (Barclays), Social Security Bank (SSB), National
Saving and Credit Bank (NSCB) and the recently established Meridien-BIAO of Ghana, have
over 80% of the total assets and deposits in the system. GCB continues to dominate the
system with over 50% of the assets and deposits of the banking system, but the GCB market
share of net loans has declined to about one-third and is expected to decline further with
growing competition and the entry of new banks in the market. The three former
development finance institutions, Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), National Investment



2
Bank (NIB) and Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) have introduced commercial
banking services. Pending the forthcoming banking divestiture program, the majority of the
banks are either partly or wholly owned by the Govermment, although the latter's shareholding
in some major banks (e.g., SCB, Barclays) is small and the management of these banks rests
entirely with its private shareholders. Two private merchant banks, Ecobank Ghana Ltd. and
Continental Acceptances, were established in 1990. These institutions and the existing
Merchant Bank, take corporate deposits, finance trade and industry, provide advisory services
and manage money and capital market activities such as underwriting, trading on the Stock
Exchange, privatization, mergers and acquisitions and debenture issues. The three merchant
banks have about 7% of the total assets and 5% of the deposits in the system.
2.4          There are a number of significant non-bank financial institutions in Ghana that
are not regulated by the Banking Act. The non-bank financial system is comprised of a Stock
Exchange, 21 life and non-life insurance companies with some 3,000 insurance brokers and
agents, the Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNM, two discount houses,
building societies and a leasing company. Several non-bank financial institutions, life
insurance companies and pension/provident funds in particular, are potential sources of long-
term investment capital. The follow-on FINSAC II (para 2.10) included among its objectives
the establishment of a new legal and regulatory framework for these non-bank financial
institutions.
2.5          The capital market is in its embryonic stage, as yet unable to make a
substantial contribution to the mobilization of long-term resources. Until very recently, the
few private placement transactions were usually in long dated Government stocks and shares
of private companies. A newly formed Stock Exchange commenced trading in November
1990. Trading volume is still small, with few listed securities. However, the volume is
expected to grow with the divestiture and privatization initiatives being pursued by the
Governmnent.
2.6          IDA's work on the Ghanaian financial sector started in 1985, at a time when
the latter was in severe distress. This situation represented a serious constraint to growth in
the real sectors of the economy which had begun to show promising signs of recovery under
the ERP launched by the Government in 1983. A major financial sector review was carried
out in 1987, which identified a large number of sector deficiencies. These included an
insolvent banking system dominated by State-owned banks and saddled with huge non-
performing loans and excessive intermediation costs; a low level of financial intermediation
reflecting a poor record in domestic resources mobilization; inefficient credit allocation partly
on account of Central Bank-directed interest rates and sectoral credit targets; the virtual
absence of a money market and capital market; and the weakness of the supervision of the
banking system by BOG and the overall inadequacies of the regulatory framework. The
above-mentioned diagnosis formed the basis for the formulation and adoption of a
comprehensive Action Program containing measures aimed at restructuring distressed banks,
strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework, developing financial and capital
markets, and more generally, liberalizing the financial sector environment so as to improve
the efficiency of resource mobilization and credit allocation. That initial Action Program was
supported by FINSAC I, and was followed by an enhanced sectoral reform program
supported by the subsequent FINSAC II.



3
3.    Project Objectives, Design, Preparation and Execution
a.    Objectives
2.7          The FINSAC reform program was intended to complement the structural
adjustment program initiated by the Government in 1983. The latter aimed at establishing an
appropriate macroeconomic and incentive framework to stimulate growth, encourage savings
and investment, strengthen the balance of payments and improve the efficiency of resource
use while ensuring fiscal and monetary stability. The main objectives of the Credit were to:
(i)   liberalize the environment for banking operations through the removal
of interest rate controls and sectoral credit targets;
(ii)   enhance the soundness of banking institutions by putting in place a
new legal, regulatory and prudential framework;
(iii)  strengthen the banking supervision function of BOG;
(iv)   restructure financially distressed banking institutions following the
adoption of a suitable framework and the formulation of institution-
specific restructuring plans; and
(v)    attempt to recover to the extent possible, the non-performing assets
taken over from distressed banks;
2.8          In addition, other objectives supported by the Credit included:
(i)   initiating the development of the money and capital market;
(ii)   initiating a study on the need and modalities for corporate
restructuring;
(iii)  strengthening the accounting and auditing profession; and
(iv)   training of bank managers and staff.
b.    Design and Phasing of Reforms
2.9          The reform program supported by FINSAC I was appropriately designed, with
due consideration given to the need to deal with urgent and/or priority matters first, and to the
borrower's implementation capacity. It was intended to focus selectively on the more
fundamental and urgent problems facing the Ghanaian financial sector back in 1988. These
included: (a) the potential collapse of the major, insolvent banking institutions; (b) the lack of
confidence in the banking system on the part of the public; (c) the absence of an appropriate
regulatory and prudential framework for banking operations; and (d) the weakness of banking
supervision by the BOG. Accordingly, this initial reform program excluded from its scope a
number of financial sector issues which, although important, were deemed less urgent, such
as: (e)non-bank financial institutions; (f) the informal financial markets, notwithstanding their
relative prominence in Ghana; (g) the legal framework (e.g., bankruptcy laws, laws on



4
collaterals and securities, judicial system concerning the enforcement of financial contracts)
relating to banking operations; and (h) improvement in the modalities for monetary control.
2.10          Although the restructuring of distressed, State-owned banks constituted a key
component of FINSAC I, their eventual privatization was not envisaged as part of the initial
reform program, on the justifiable grounds that there was a need first to restore these banks'
financial viability as a pre-requisite for their subsequent privatization. Most of the objectives
thus left out of the initial reform program of FINSAC I (including banking privatization, non-
bank financial institutions, the informal financial system, and improvement in the monetary
control system) were pursued in the follow-on operation, FINSAC II, which was approved in
December 1991, approximately three years after FINSAC I. Accordingly, FINSAC I should
be seen not as a comprehensive, once-and-for-all attempt at adjustment of the Ghanaian
financial sector, but as the first phase of a sector adjustment process that is still ongoing. In
recognition of the need for capacity building, the FINSAC I program included a sizeable
technical assistance component amounting to US$5 million (supplemented by cofinancing from
Switzerland), for training, consultancy services and other implementation-related hardware
and software expenditures.
c.    Project Preparation
2.11         The preparation of FINSAC I stemmed directly from IDA's financial sector
work in Ghana. A preliminary sector mission visited the country in 1985, as the adjustment
process was underway, when it appeared that shortcomings in the financial sector constituted a
potential constraint to growth in the real sectors. This culminated in April 1987 in a major
review by a joint working group of Ghanaians and IDA staff which identified fundamental
problems and recommended a wide-ranging program of reforms, embodied in an Action
Program that was discussed and substantially agreed with the Government. The priority
measures contained in the Action Program were subsequently incorporated in the Policy
Matrix (Annex A) agreed under FINSAC I. The Initiating Memorandum was reviewed and
approved by the Operations Committee in February 1988, followed immediately by appraisal.
The Credit was negotiated in April, approved by the Board on May 31 and declared effective
in August 1988. That expeditious processing schedule was made possible, without sacrificing
quality, by the intensive sector work preceding appraisal. The original amount of SDR72.1
million (US$100 million) was subsequently increased to SDR77.2 million (US$106.6 million)
through a Supplementary IDA Credit for SDR5.1 million. The adjustment program was
cofinanced by a loan of Japanese Yen, 12.558 billion (US$93.9 million equivalent) from the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and a grant of Swiss Francs 15 million (US$
11.8 million equivalent) by the Government of the Swiss Confederation, with IDA acting as
Administrator of the Swiss contribution. The second tranche (of US$30 million) was released
in June 1990, about 17 months after effectiveness compared with the 9-month interval
anticipated in the President's Report. This significant delay appears attributable to the large
number (10 in all) of specific conditions stipulated for the second tranche release and the
over-optimistic initial estimate of their implementation pace. On the other hand, the third
tranche (US$20 million) was released in December 1990, or 6 months after the second
tranche compared with the initially envisaged 9-month interval. This early release of the third
tranche was probably on account of the fewer conditions (5) attached to it.



5
4.    Implementation Performance
a.     Liberalization of Flnancial and Banking Environment
2.12          The process of gradual liberalization and deregulation of the financial system
actually started before the inception of the Credit and was substantially completed under it.
The objective was to improve the mobilization and allocation of financial resources and to
increase financial intermediation. Control of interest rates was gradually removed and full
interest rate liberalization was achieved in February 1988. With inflation declining in the
mid-1980s, deposit rates became positive in real terms for the first time in more than a
decade, although in later years, fluctuating inflation rendered them negative from time-to-
time. In compliance with a specific agreement under the Credit, BOG also started
decontrolling all banking charges (e.g., fees and commissions) in October 1990. On the side
of resource allocation, all sectoral credit targets were gradually phased out starting in 1987,
except for agriculture, for which the lending floor was abolished in November 1990 in
compliance with a condition for third tranche release.
b.    The Legal and Regulatory Framework
2.13          Preparation work for the program disclosed that the then prevailing Banking
Act of 1970 did not provide adequate guidelines to banks and the banking authorities on,
inter alia, minimum capital requirements, risk exposure and prudential lending limits for
banks, provisions for possible loan losses and methods of interest accrual on non-performing
loans. Accordingly, the Government undertook a comprehensive examination of the Act
during 1988 with a view to establishing a more effective basis for banking activity in the
country. As a result, an interim Legislative Instrument was enacted on December 30, 1988.
It covered minimum capital requirements, provided a new basis for computing capital
adequacy, introduced uniform accounting and auditing standards and improved reporting
requirements to the BOG, for all banks and future banking activities. Subsequently, the
authorities continued to develop a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework for banking
activities through extensive consultations with banking, accounting and other professional
bodies in Ghana and abroad, as well as with the Association. This process resulted in the
enactment of the Amended Banking Law on August 8, 1989, replacing both the Banking Act
of 1970 and the Banking and Financial Institutions Decree of 1979. The new Act and its
regulations provide sound prudential and regulatory bases for the country's banking system.
It contains an appropriate set of prudential banking provisions, broadly patterned upon those
of the Basle Guidelines, it requires banks to maintain a minimum capital base equivalent to
6% of asset base adjusted for risk assets, and to limit secondary capital. It sets penalties,
including restrictions on dividend payments, for banks that do not achieve their capital
adequacy ratios. Guidelines are provided for determining provisions for bad and doubtful
loans and for the treatment of related accrued interest. The Act also establishes for banks risk
exposure limits to a single financial group or individual as a percentage of net worth, and sets
limits on loans and advances to directors and employees of banks. It also contains restrictions
on the extent of direct exposure in commercial, agricultural and industrial and real estate
activities. The provisions of the new Act considerably strengthen the BOG's ability to
effectively manage and oversee the banking sector. The BOG is empowered when necessary,
to require banks to hold specified levels of liquid assets, direct banks to observe specified
lending policies and take remedial measures (including receivership), if banks are not being
managed in the interest of their depositors and/or creditors.



6
c.    Bank Supervision by Bank of Ghana
2.14         In parallel with the putting in place of a new legal and regulatory framework
for banking activities, a major specific objective of FINSAC I was to strengthen banking
supervision by the BOG, which previously was considered deficient. Under the new Banking
Act, BOG was required to undertake the on-site inspection of each bank at least once a year.
Standard auditing and accounting principles were introduced in late 1988 which follow
International Auditing Guidelines and International Accounting Standards. Since then, the
accounting records of banks must be examined by qualified external auditors at least once a
year, and both statutory and long-form auditors' reports are required for all banks. These
reports are also to be submitted to the BOG promptly. These revised standards and
procedures are now being enforced by the BOG's Banking Supervision Department. The
reporting format introduced by the Bank of Ghana in 1988 require banks to provide
considerably more data than was being submitted previously for off-site monitoring purposes.
Besides data on their liquidity and the volume and nature of credit granted, banks are now
regularly providing information on the composition and maturity of all their assets and
liabilities, the quality of portfolios, their profitability and information that permits the
calculation of their capital adequacy ratios. The BOG's Banking Supervision Department has
started to computerize this database and its operations in order to monitor more effectively the
performance of banks individually and in relation to the sector.
2.15         Until 1988, the Banking Supervision Department carried out few on-site
inspections of banks and relied mainly on each bank's internal control mechanisms and on
external auditors' reports to analyze and assess bank performance. Reporting requirements
from banks were chiefly concerned with monitoring liquidity and compliance with credit
allocation guidelines. To cope with the supervisory responsibilities under the new Act, the
Supervision Department has been strengthened significantly. Two high-level advisors from
the Reserve Bank of India were retained to provide formal as well as on-the-job training to
staff working on bank supervision; all the Department's bank inspectors have now participated
in a basic training course and manuals for both on-site and off-site inspection have been
substantially revised and expanded. Regular on-site inspections of banks were initiated in
early 1989 with the direct participation of the advisors, and the quality of the resulting reports
has improved considerably. To cope with the requirement of annual on-site inspection of each
bank, the Department has gradually built up its staffing, from 20 bank examiners in 1988 (of
whom only five were considered as having suitable experience) to 63 examiners (with
adequate field experience) by 1993.
d.    The Restructuring of Distressed Banks
2.16         Under FINSAC I, the approach to bank restructuring was quite systematic.
The Government's Statement of Financial Policies, agreed with IDA, provided the basis of the
framework for the restructuring of banks. The main guiding principles were that: (i) the
basic objective of bank restructuring was to foster the growth of a sound, dynamic banking
system in which all banks, irrespective of ownership and purpose, will compete freely and
operate by rules of the market; (ii) pending the completion of bank restructuring, measures
will be taken to arrest the financial deterioration of banks; (iii) to ensure the proper use of
resources in the future and avoid the repetition of past mistakes, financial restructuring will
not be attempted in isolation from managerial and organizational changes; (iv) restructured
banks were to have independent and professional managements with sufficient autonomy to
make day-to-day decisions, and the boards of directors are to include suitable representation



7
from the private sector to broaden the experience and enhance their capabilities and
contribution and; (v) the Government will consider reducing its share of the ownership of
banks by seeking private Ghanaian and/or foreign shareholding in restructured banks. In
addition, subject to proper safeguards, entry into the banking system of new privately owned
domestic or foreign banks will be encouraged. The Government retained a firm of
consultants to help develop a framework for restructuring seven of the nine major banks. The
guidelines for restructuring distressed banks were formulated and elaborated in the General
Framework document in early 1989. It was approved by the Government in July 1989, and
reviewed and agreed by the Association. The framework established a one-time financial
package of measures for each of the seven distressed banks to restore solvency, and to
provide sufficient capital and adequate liquidity to enable them to operate in a self-sustained
manner following their restructuring. The measures were tailored to the requirements of
individual banks and the degree and kind of distress experienced by them. Restructuring was
achieved by removing from the banks' portfolios all non-performing loans made to the
Government or to State-owned enterprises, which totalled e22.6 billion at the end of 1988,
and to the extent needed, converting into equity Government loans or other claims (deposits).
The banks' non-performing loans to the private sector amounting to about e36.4 billion at the
end of 1988 were to be replaced through the issuance of Government bonds. The non-
performing assets of distressed banks were to be transferred to a newly created and wholly-
owned Government agency, the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART), whose
function would be to realize such assets to the extent possible. To facilitate NPART's work,
a special judiciary tribunal was appointed and given the necessary powers to speed up the
asset recovery process.
2.17         Implementation of the bank restructuring program to date has been generally
satisfactory. Individual restructuring plans for six of the seven distressed banks, following
their review by IDA, are under implementation and have resulted in significant improvements
in both the financial and operational performance of five of these banks (GCB, SSB, NIB,
ADB, NSCB), since 1991. These restructuring plans included changes in the banks'
management team, staff reduction, closure of unprofitable branches and reduction of operating
costs. For the seven restructured banks, the combined work force has been streamlined by
35% to about 7,000 by end-1992. 2 presents the financial statements of these banks, and 3
their loan portfolio classification. Their ratio of operating expenses to operating income
improved from 64% in 1990 to 53% in 1992 and further to 45% in 1993 (first nine months).
Starting with a loss situation in 1990, these banks recorded a combined profit (before tax) of
¢9.9 billion in 1991, and ¢10.4 billion in 1992, and e22.3 billion in 1993 (first 9 months)
thus enabling the Government to derive a tax revenue of 0Z13.9 billion for these three years.
More importantly, the combined loan portfolio of the restructured banks continues to show
improvement. As shown in 6, the ratio of non-performing loans to total portfolio steadily
declined from 72.5% in 1989, to 60.6% in 1990, 40.6% in 1991, 32.8% in 1992 and further
to 28.5% as of end-September 1993. One of the seven banks, BHC, however, continues to
be in need of further improvement, particularly in its management team. Finally, the small
COOP Bank remains in a precarious condition. It has recently been taken over by BOG and
is to be merged with a stronger bank following its forthcoming financial restructuring. The
satisfactory outcome of the restructuring of GCB and SSB, which are the two largest
Ghanaian banks and candidates for the initial phase of the Government's banking divestiture
program, is expected to facilitate their planned privatization.



8
e.    Recovery of Non-Performing Assets
2.18         In early 1989, during the course of drafting the General Framework (i.e.,
guidelines) for bank restructuring (para. 2.16), extensive technical discussions took place
between the Government, IDA and the consultants on the alternative modalities for
recovering the non-performing assets of the seven distressed banks which were slated for
restructuring. On the basis of detailed portfolio audits previously undertaken by independent
experts, the aggregate amount of these non-performing assets was estimated at approximately
¢60 billion. The need was felt to attempt to recover as much of this amount as possible in
order to reduce the fiscal burden of the Government. These discussions led to the conclusion
that the best modality would be the establishment of NPART (para. 2.16), as a Government-
owned agency whose function would be to take over and to realize such assets to the extent
possible. In February 1990, agreement was reached between the Government and IDA on a
document titled, "NPART Operating Policies", which outlined in considerable detail the
financial and operational guidelines for this institution as well as its organizational structure.
The law establishing NPART was enacted on February 28, 1990 and NPART became
operational later that year. From its inception, NPART has received extensive technical
assistance from IDA, mainly for financing a team of expatriate experts, two of whom had
previous relevant experience with the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) of the U.S. The
special judicial tribunal, created to facilitate NPART's recoveries, was subsequently
established and became operational by June 1992.
2.19         Taking into account the six-year timeframe set in the 1990 law establishing
NPART (including a built-in one-year extension), the Government and IDA agreed in 1991 on
an action program to achieve an appropriate level of debt recoveries by NPART. The action
program set an Aggregate Recovery Target (ART) of (Z18 billion (compared with a total
portfolio of about ¢50 billion), based on an account-by-account review of its portfolio by
NPART. This target amount was to be recovered by NPART in accordance with annual
recovery targets: 12% in 1991, 22% in 1992, 26% in 1993, 23% in 1994 and the remaining
17% in 1995. NPART's actual collection performance to date by and large has been adequate
in relation to the agreed recovery targets. It collected ¢3.3 billion in 1991, 13.4 billion in
1992 and ¢2.3 billion in the first nine months of 1993, for a total amount of ¢19.0 billion, or
about 95% of the prorated target amount of 09.6 billion (for the period from 1991 up to
September 30, 1993). There are, however, some indications that future recoveries might be
more difficult to achieve than in the past, on account of the fact that collections in the early
phase tended to concentrate on the easier accounts. The special tribunal became operational
by mid-1992 and NPART has so far submitted to it 150 cases (involving ¢9.8 billion) for
evaluation, of which the tribunal has rendered 96 judgements (involving ¢18.9 billion) in favor
of NPART. The extent to which the tribunal might have actually helped expedite NPART's
recovery process, however, remains unclear.
f.    Development of Money and Capital Markets
2.20         Specific measures to achieve the above objective under FINSAC I included:
(a) preparation and implementation of an action plan for strengthening the Consolidated
Discount House (CDH), a newly established money market company with which banks could
invest their surplus short-term resources; and (b) completion of a study on the potential and
modalities for capital market development. It was hoped that the availability of short- and
medium-term securities on an active money market would, apart from increasing resource
mobilization, enable the BOG to improve its instruments of monetary control by gradually



9
moving away from direct controls (i.e., credit ceilings) toward an indirect system based
mainly on open market operations. Following agreement with IDA in 1989 on an institutional
strengthening program, CDH has continued to expand its business and to operate profitably.
Its successful operation encouraged the establishment, in 1990, of a second discount house,
the Securities Discount Company, Limited. The capital market study, completed in October
1989, led to the establishment of the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) in 1990. GSE has made
commendable efforts to build up a minimal organizational structure and the requisite basic
operational capacity and procedures. The level of its operations to date, however, remains
extremely modest, increasing from a negligible trading volume of 0Z105 million in 1991, to
Q.173 million in 1992 and e2,892 million for the first nine months of 1993. There are only
15 companies listed as of end-1993 and only one new listing (Super Paper Company) since
1992. This disappointing operational performance is attributable mainly to the smallness of
the market and to the fact that it takes time for the Ghanaian public to become familiar with
securities transactions. In the coming months and years, however, a significant increase in
business as well as in the role of GSE is anticipated with the forthcoming government
divestiture program including the planned privatization of banks (para. 2.17). A much
increased level of business will be necessary for GSE which, so far, has had to rely on IDA's
technical assistance financing under FINSAC I, to start operating in a financially self-
supporting manner and thus to ensure its long-term sustainability. In view of its potentially
important role, GSE is an institution worth preserving and supporting.
g.     Corporate Restructuring
2.21          During FINSAC I preparation, the Government and IDA shared the view that
banking restructuring, in order to be successful on a sustained basis, would need to be
complemented by the restructuring of enterprises in the corporate sector. The financial
situation of these enterprises had been severely adversely affected during the 1980s by
massive devaluations, high rates of inflation and natural shocks resulting from necessary
adjustment policies. The impaired capacity of such enterprises to service their banking debts
in turn led to the heavy accumulation of non-performing assets in the books of Ghanaian
banks and in the latters' financial distress. In recognition of the foregoing, the Government
commissioned under FINSAC 1, a study to assess the magnitude and nature of corporate
distress, and to recommend a program to facilitate the restructuring of potentially viable
enterprises. The study was carried out by an external consulting firm, M.S.A. of UK, and
subsequently followed in 1992 by an updating study by Repim, a local consulting company.
The first phase of the study was completed in late 1989 and reviewed the condition of a
sample of 214 enterprises identified by Ghanaian banks as possible candidates for
restructuring. It concluded that a significant proportion of these enterprises had good
prospects for viable operation, if suitably restructured from a financial, technical and
managerial standpoint. The second phase of the study, completed in mid-1990, examined the
alternative institutional arrangements for carrying out the enterprise restructuring process. It
proposed, inter alia, the establishment of a new corporate entity with private sector ownership
to provide venture capital and other financial, managerial and technical services for the
restructuring of distressed but potentially viable enterprises, together with a broad range of
activities pertaining to a specialized financial institution, along the lines of an investment
bank. That proposal, however, was subsequently abandoned by the Government, partly on
account of practical difficulties in finding a group of suitable private investors with both a
willingness and a capability to set up a new investment bank that would concentrate on
restructuring distressed corporate enterprises. During discussions with the Government, IDA
also expressed its reservations about that proposal, out of concern that the new corporate



10
entity (in which the Government would inevitably have to play a major role, at least in its
initial stages) might be inappropriately used to bail out fundamentally non-viable enterprises,
and in view of the fact that two new private merchant banks (Ecobank Ghana and Continental
Acceptances) just opened in 1990 in Ghana, in addition to the previously existing Merchant
Bank.The recommendations from the consultant report were subsequently revisited under a
1993 IDA investment project, the Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
(PEED). It was concluded that, under PEED, a small pilot program focussing on 10-20
potentially viable companies would be developed and specific restructuring action plans
developed in conjunction with local financial consulting firms.
h.    Strengthening the Accounting and Auditing Profession
2.22         Measures to improve the accounting and auditing professions were included
under the program, and a comprehensive review by consultants of the training and
professional development needs of the accountancy profession was completed in early 1989.
The consultants' report made recommendations on, inter  a, reforming the regulatory
framework for accounting and auditing, developing professional standards, improving training
and professional development of accountants and strengthening the previously existing
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana (ICAG). With IDA's technical assistance under
FINSAC I, ICAG has generally made good progress in implementing the consultants'
recommendations, including reorganizing its Secretariat and ongoing work toward developing
a uniform set of accounting standards. Furthermore, ICAG has succeeded in the past three
years in gradually reducing its dependence on outside financial support (from FINSAC
technical assistance and the Government) and increasing its own revenues, thereby enhancing
its long-term sustainability. The ratio of its self-generated income (e.g., membership
contributions and fees, other remunerations) increased from 12% in 1991 to 25% in 1992 and
sharply to 73.5% in 1993 (first nine months).
i.    Training of Bankers
2.23         The need to introduce modern banking methods, upgrade the skills of bank
staff and recruit and develop new talent was recognized during preparation of the program.
Accordingly, the technical assistance component of FINSAC I included measures to assist
both BOG and the Ghana Institute of Bankers. Under this assistance, BOG recruited a senior
training specialist (from the Reserve Bank of India) who, at the end of 1989, completed an
assessment of the training needs of the banking sector, and formulated training programs and
course curricula. Simultaneously, training courses for staff of both BOG and the commercial
banks (numbering 260) were conducted by external training experts in credit management,
international banking, internal auditing and other core disciplines. In parallel, the Ghana
Institute of Bankers (an educational institution affiliated with the Ghana Association of
Bankers) received technical assistance under FINSAC I for upgrading its physical facilities
and for funding of trainers' training by external training specialists. The Ghana Institute of
Bankers appears to have made good progress toward developing its own expertise (notably in
conducting professional examinations), and has lessened its previously heavy professional
dependence on the London-based Chartered Institute of Bankers, U.K. The Institute now has
some 3,500 students studying for its various levels of certification. This good progress
notwithstanding, there is a need for the Institute to further ensure its long-term sustainability,
in anticipation of an eventual reduction or discontinuation of external financial support from
IDA and other sources, by generating a more adequate level of revenues from its services.



11
2.24         The technical assistance component of FINSAC I also provided financial
support to the Ghana Association of Bankers toward the establishment of a Credit Clearing
House (subsequently, renamed the Interbank Credit Data Bank). The objective was to
develop a centralized and computerized data system on credits (above a given level) granted
by all Ghanaian banks to all borrowers, so as to improve credit information and the
transparency of credit risks, and to enable the banks to obtain accurate and up-to-date
information on clients' indebtedness and, thus, to improve the quality of their lending
decisions. Implementation of this proposal has been delayed, so far, partly on account of the
Ghana Association of Bankers' ineffectiveness, but is expected to be completed sometime
during 1994 under funding from FINSAC II.
5.    Project Results and Sustainability
a.    Results in Regard to Specific Program Components on Financial Sector
Overall
2.25         It is clear from the fbregoing that, to a large extent, all the nine specic
components of FINSAC I listed in paragraphs 2.7 and 2.8 have been implemented
satisfactorily, as summarized below:
(i)    The liberalization of the financial and banking environment has now
been largely completed, with the removal of ceilings on banking
interest rates and other charges, and the abolition of all sectoral credit
targets. The more liberal environment has probably been a factor
encouraging the recent establishment in Ghana of new banks, of a
merchant/investment type, such as Merchant Bank of Ghana,
Continental Acceptances Ltd. and Ecobank Ghana. This has resulted
in a broadening and diversification of the banking system, enhancing
the range of banking services available to enterprises.
(ii)   The new legal and regulatory framework for banking activities
introduced by the Amended Banking Law of August 1989 is adequate.
One (relatively minor) area for further improvement in existing
regulations relates to weighting of assets for the computation of capital
adequacy: at present, banks are subject to only two categories of
weighting - zero percent or 100 percent - whereas a more graduated
scale of weighting similar to the Basle guidelines would assist the
banks in the diversification of lending instruments. The foregoing
notwithstanding, the new legislation does provide the banks with a set
of appropriate prudential regulations to comply with in order to ensure
their sound financial operations, and the Bank of Ghana with the
necessary instruments for exercising its supervisory function over the
banks. Furthermore (see para 5.1(c)), as of end-1993, all banks
operating in Ghana, including the seven state-owned restructured
banks (with the exception of the small COOP Bank) are in compliance
with major prudential guidelines (e.g., capital adequacy, minimum
capital). While it is true that the 1989 Amended Banking Act covered
only banking institutions per se, thus leaving the non-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs) largely unregulated until the Financial Institutions
(Non-Banking) Law was promulgated in January 1993, this reflected a



12
deliberate (and justifiable) decision to address the NBFI situation
under the second phase of reforms supported by FINSAC H.
(iii)   The banking supervision function of the Bank of Ghana, previously
deficient, has been adequately strengthened. The Banking Supervision
Department of BOG has developed its capacity both qualitatively and
quantitatively, and by 1993 has been able to comply with the
requirement, set out in the 1989 Banking Act, to undertake the
inspection of all banks on an yearly basis. BOG's regular and
systematic monitoring of the prudential ratios of individual banks has
enabled it to ascertain that by 1992 and 1993, all Ghanaian banks,
including the seven state-owned banks with the exception of the COOP
Bank (slated for merger with a stronger bank) are in compliance with
all major prudential regulations, such as capital adequacy, liquidity,
minimum capitalization and lending and exposure limits.
(iv)   The bank restructuring program, a key component of FINSAC I, so
far, has generally been implemented successfully. As indicated in
para 4.6, as a group, the seven state-owned banks are now operating
profitably following their restructuring. They have experienced a
steady improvement in their operational efficiency (as reflected in
operating ratios) and in the condition of their loan portfolios. The
only exception is the relatively small Cooperative Bank whose
financial restructuring commenced in December 1993. This bank
remains insolvent following its recent receivership by Bank of Ghana.
It is intended to merge it with one of the stronger State-owned banks.
This bank remains insolvent following its recent receivership by Bank
of Ghana, and it is in the process of being merged with one of the
stronger state-owned banks. The restored sound financial condition
and profitability of these six banks is expected to facilitate their
forthcoming privatization, in particular that of the two largest, namely
GCB and SSB, which are scheduled for the initial phase of divestiture
under the follow-on FINSAC II. The sustainability of the restructured
banks' good performance, however, remains to be seen as it would
depend to a large extent on the eventual outcome of their planned
privatization.
(v)    In regard to the recovery of non-performing assets, the performance
of NPART to date has been generally adequate. As indicated in para
4.8, up to September 30, 1993, it has effectively collected C9.0
billion or about 95 % of the prorated recovery target, which itself was
based on an account-by-account review of its portfolio and, therefore,
reflected a realistic assessment (with the concurrence of IDA staff) of
the extent of recoverable assets.
(vi)   With respect of the development of the money and capitol market, a
satisfactory albeit modest start has also been made. Money market
operations are now transacted by two specialized financial institutions,
namely Consolidated Discount House which was subject to an
institutional strengthening action plan supported by FINSAC 1, and the



13
subsequently established Securities Discount Company, Limited. Both
these are operating profitably and in the process of broadening the
range of their operations. In regard to the capital market, the Ghana
Stock Exchange, an entity established under and supported by
FINSAC I, is providing an infrastructure necessary for the future
development of the securities market, although the scale of its
operations remains modest.
(vii)  The ideas of corporate restructurng (i.e., restructuring of distressed
but potentially viable enterprises) was explored under FINSAC I,
although the results of the consultant study are not evident beyond the
identification of a number of potentially viable enterprises.
Restructuring assistance to the latter was intended to be provided
under a separate IDA-supported investment project (PEED), although
the extent of such assistance to date cannot yet be determined.
(viii) The objective of strengthening the accounting and auditing
professions has been pursued systematically, and this has resulted in
improvements in the institutional capability of the ICAG, and progress
is being made towards the development by the latter of a uniform set
of accounting standards.
(ix)   The emphasis on training and more generally on human resource
development under FINSAC I has resulted both in the strengthening of
the Ghana Institute of Bankers, an educational institution common to
Ghanaian banks, and the professional training of a significant number
(260 by 1992) of staff from both BOG and the Ghanaian banks.
b.    Impact on Financial Sector Overall
2.26         As can be seen from the preceding paragraph, implementation of the FINSAC
I reform program has been generally successful in regard to its specific
components/objectives. On the other hand and on a broader plane, it is more difficult to
asess the impact of FINSAC I on the perfornance of the financial sector overall. For one
reason, financial sector performance (e.g., savings mobilization, resource allocation,
efficiency of financial intermediation) depends not only on reforms within the sector, but also
on the broader macroeconomic environment. This makes it difficult to separate the effects of
FINSAC I from those of the successive structural adjustment programs undertaken in Ghana
since 1983. For another, the reform program of FINSAC I cannot be seen as a whole, but
only as the first phase of a continuing sector adjustment process that includes also the follow-
on FINSAC II (and probably some future operations). This being said, the following is an
attempt at identifying sectoral improvements since the inception of FINSAC I, as well as
those areas where further improvements should be sought.
2.27          Selected areas where the Ghanaian financial sector has experienced
mprowment following the implementation of FINSAC I include notably:
(i)    The resolution of banking distress and restoration of financial
soundness in the banking system, as a result of the bank restructuring
program initiated in 1989. The improvements in the situation of the



14
state-owned banks (see para 2.17) since 1990 have also been
experienced by the Ghanaian banking system overall. Whereas in
1988 seven of the nine banks operating in Ghana were insolvent, at
present all but one (COOP Bank, taken over by BOG and in the
process of being merged with a stronger bank) of the 14 banks in the
system are operating profitably and in compliance with prevailing
prudential regulations. The table in 6 shows that for the 3-year
period, these banks as a group recorded an average annual profit
(before tax) of e22.2 billion, representing 3.4% of average total assets
and 27.5% of equity. Operating efficiency is reflected in the ratio of
operating expenses to average total assets, and these have registered a
modest decline from 4.3 % in 1990 to 4.1% for the first nine months
of 1993. More importantly, improved quality of their combined loan
portfolio is reflected in the ratio of non-performing loans to total
portfolio, which declined from 60.6% in 1990 to 40.6% in 1991,
32.8% in 1992 and further to 28.5% as of September 1993.
(ii)   The broadening and diversification of the financial system. In 1988,
the banking system comprised nine commercial and development
banks providing a limited range of conventional banking services
(e.g., deposits and loans). By 1992, with the entry into the market of
three new banks of a merchant/investment type (Ecobank, Continental
Acceptances, Merchant Bank of Ghana), the banking system was able
to provide a broader range of financial services including corporate
finance, underwriting syndication and advisory assistance. The Ghana
Stock Exchange (established in 1990 with support by FINSAC I), in
spite of its present modest scale of operations, is providing an
infrastructure necessary for the future development of the capital
market. The overall level of competitiveness within the system,
however, remains low, with the three largest banks (GCB, SSB and
Barclays) playing the role of market loaders.
(iii)   The enhanced capacity of Bank of Ghana in supervising the banking
system, as a result of the new regulatory framework and prudential
regulations introduced by the August 8, 1989 Banking Act, as well as
the measures undertaken to strengthen the Bank Supervision
Department.
2.28         On the other hand, there remains areas in which the performance of the
Ghanaian financial sector stands in need offurther bnprovements, including those listed
below:
(i)    The Bank of Ghana continues to fulfill a dual role of operating both in
open market operation to smooth seasonal flows but also to fund the
Government's deficit need through the issuance of short term bills.
The Central Bank should only be performing the former role of
smoothing seasonal flows.
(ii)   There is an increasing need to introduce a broadly based competitive
structure in the banking sector. This can best be achieved by the



15
Government aggressively speeding up its divestiture and privatization
process of its interests in the Government owned banks.
(iii) The financial liberalization measures (e.g., interest rate decontrol,
removal of exchange controls) initiated since 1989 have not been
followed by a financial deepening of the Ghanaian economy. The
ratio of M2 to GDP has remained flat from 1989 through 1992. The
macroeconomic and other factors accounting for such a situation
appear to warrant an in-depth analysis.
(iv)   The financial system's performance in mobilizing savings remains
inadequate. Private sector deposits with the banking system increased
from ¢103 billion at end-1989 to C,241 billion at end-1992 (G)
represents an average annual growth of 8% in real terms after
adjusting for inflation. The ratio of private sector deposits to GDP at
end-1992 was 3.5%. Gross domestic savings, already low at 7.9% of
GDP in 1991, fell further to 2% in 1992. These ratios are very low
even when compared with other sub-Saharan countries.
(v)    Credit to the private sector by the banking system, after stagnating at
the approximate level of (180 billion during the 3-year period 1989-
1991, expanded rapidly, by 56% in 1992 to C1138.5 billion at end-
1992, and further by 42% (52.5% on an annual basis) in the first nine
months of 1993, to (:186 billion. This still represents a low ratio of
2% to GDP, and there is a need for the banking system to sustain the
recent credit growth so as to adequately meet the financing needs of
the public.
C.    Sustainability
2.29         The sustainability of the reforms and actions undertaken under FINSAC I
derives, amongst other things, from the fact that the reform program was not conceived of as
a one-shot undertaking. Rather, its reform program was designed as the first phase of a
continuing sectoral adjustment process. In line with that thinking, some three years after its
inception (in 1988) and following its successful implementation, FINSAC I was followed by
the subsequent FINSAC II approved by IDA in December 1991. Apart from introducing
additional sector reforms (e.g., privatization of restructured banks, non-bank financial
institutions; improvements in monetary control), FINSAC II included the specific objective of
helping Ghana consolidate those reforms already initiated under the preceding FINSAC I.
Thus, the bank restructuring program started under FINSAC I continues to receive IDA's
support under FINSAC II toward the forthcoming privatization of most of the restructured
parastatal banks. In regard to the recovery of non-performing assets, the preparatory and
legal work toward establishing NPART started under FINSAC I, but NPART actually started
its operations under FINSAC II. The extensive institution - building and training programs
(e.g., Institute of Chartered Accountants, Ghana Institute of Bankers) initiated under FINSAC
I continue to this day to receive support under FINSAC II. This continuum between these
two successive operations goes a long way in ensuring the sustainability of reforms and
actions undertaken under the initial program. Apart from the foregoing, the sustainability of
reforms is enhanced by the Government's continuing strong commitment to the reform
process. To further ensure sustainability, it would be advisable for IDA and other Donors to



16
be prepared to continue providing some technical assistance (e.g., logistical support, training)
on a gradually diminishing scale over the next few years to selected program implementation
agencies (e.g., BOG, ICAG, GSE, Ghana Institute of Bankers).
6.    lDA Performance
2.30         IDA's contributions to the success of the reform program have been
significant. Its extensive financial sector review preceding the preparation of the operation led
to a meaningful policy dialogue with Government officials, and provided major conceptual
inputs into the Government's Statement of Financial Policy which formed the basis of the
agreed reform program supported by FINSAC I. IDA's performance during project
implementation was fully satisfactory. The dialogue on financial sector issues continued
during implementation of the Credit as part of IDA's supervision work, particularly in
relation to the fulfillment of the conditions for second and third tranche releases - IDA staff
and consultants made substantive contributions inter A, toward the formulation of the
General Framework document outlining the main guidelines and modalities for bank
restructuring, as well as the design of NPART and operating policies, the Government agency
in charge of non-performing assets recovery. IDA's supervision work for this Credit has
been intensive, amounting to I 111 staff weeks for the period up December, 1992. This
worked out to a supervision coefficient of 22 staff weeks per year, which reflects the fact that
IDA gave due consideration to the complexity, and the commensurate supervision
requirements, of the program. Furthermore, the secondment of one IDA staff, with relevant
sector and field experience, to Bank of Ghana during the 1988-91 period, was of considerable
assistance in improving the Borrower's implementation capacity. Finally, IDA's support of
and close involvement in the reform program enhanced the latter's credibility vis-a-vis
external donors, thus enabling the successful mobilization of co-financing consisting of a loan
of US$94 million equivalent from the Japanese Government and a grant of US$12 million
equivalent from Switzerland.
7.    Borrower's Performance
2.31         The success of FINSAC I is attributable in no small measure to the
Government's steadfast commitment to the reform program, in particular to the priority
objective of resolving the banking distress situation prevailing in 1988 and restoring the sound
operation of the banking system. The performance of all project implementation entities has
been satisfactory, in particular that of Bank of Ghana which has been excellent. Bank of
Ghana, with support from IDA-seconded staff (para 2.30) played an important role in
coordinating and monitoring the implementation of all program activities, until the
establishment, in 1992, of the FINSAP Implementation Secretariat. The delay which occurred
in the fulfillment of the second tranche release conditions, which took 17 months following
effectiveness (para. 2.1 1), and which subsequently required an extension of the original
closing date from September 30, 1990 to December 31, 1992, is attributable not to slackening
of efforts, but rather to the Government's thorough and systematic approach to implementing
reforms, apart from the multiplicity of these release conditions. The nominal delay was also
attributable to an over-optimistic initial estimate of the pace of implementation and
disbursements. All audit reports have been received timely and have been found satisfactory.



17
8.    Lessons Learned
2.32         Financial sector reforms stand a better chance of successful implementation if
they are initiated in the aftermath (and within the broader context) of an overall structural
adjustment programs. That is so because, by then, certain requisite macroeconomic
conditions (such as an appropriate exchange rate regime; and the reduction in fiscal
imbalance) have already been achieved, thus enabling the financial sector to operate in a
relatively distortion-free environment. The implementation of FINSAC I, initiated in 1988,
benefitted from the exchange rate and fiscal reforms previously introduced under the
Economic Recovery Program started in 1983 and supported by SACI in 1987.
2.33         Intensive economic and sector work, including agreement, in principle, with
the Government on a broad action program of sector reforms preceding appraisal, helped
expedite the processing cycle of FINSAC I without sacrificing quality. The time interval
between the Initiating Memorandum and Board approval was less than four months, that
between appraisal and effectiveness, less than six months.
2.34         The choice of disbursing the Credit in three tranches (instead of the more
usual two tranches), for a relatively complex and time-consuming reform program such as
FINSAC I (and for financial sector adjustment operations generally), probably helped improve
implementation by intensifying the policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank on
key sectoral issues during discussions preceding the tranche releases.
2.35         Drawing a lesson from the difficulty of assessing the impact of FINSAC I on
the overall financial sector (para 2.26), it would have been desirable for the Government and
the Bank to agree on a set of pre-established, monitorable indicators of financial sector
performance. Such indicators could include: ratio of financial savings to GDP; savings
deposits with banks; private sector savings; evolution of credit to private sector; amount of
open market transactions by the Central Bank; securities transactions; ratio of non-performing
loans to total outstanding portfolios of banking system. These indicators, which should not be
construed as targets, would be useful for the purpose of periodically and systematically
monitoring the performance of the financial sector and banking system overall (during
program implementation), and not just that of specific program components.
2.36         The systematic (as opposed to the case-by-case) approach to bank restructuring
(through the adoption of a comprehensive and system-wide framework for restructuring) has
contributed to the generally successful outcome of the restructuring, as evidenced by the fact
that six out of the seven distressed, state-owned banks have recovered their financial viability.
In retrospect, however, it would have been advisable for the Bank to press the Government at
an early stage for a more forceful rationalization (i.e., a reduction in the number) of these
banks, through mergers or liquidations. As things stand now, their number (seven) is likely
to be reduced to five, with the proposed merger of SSB/NSCB and that of COOP Bank with
another (still undetermined) bank. A greater reduction in the number of state-owned banks
(say to three or four) would have been even more desirable since it would further lessen the
Government's direct role in the operation of the banking system. Subsequent privatization
would also be easier to achieve for a smaller number of banks given the limitations of the
market.
2.37          The specific modality chosen under FINSAC I for recovery of non-performing
assets, namely the establishment of a specialized Government agency to take over and realize



18
such assets, is an interesting one and, in the case of Ghana, has proven moderately successful
in terms of the amounts actually recovered. However, there are alternative modalities (e.g.,
keeping non-performing assets with the originating banks and entrusting these banks with the
responsibility for recovering them) that have been applied in other countries. A Bank-wide
cross-country comparative review of the relative effectiveness of the alternative methods might
yield operationally relevant lessons.
2.38         Implementation experience of FINSAC I points out the important role of
technical assistance. The most useful components were: (i) consultancy assistance in drafting
guidelines for bank restructuring and the modus operandi for NPART, the loan recovery
agency; (ii) secondment of experts to both managerial and advisory positions in restructured
banks; (iii) capacity building in banks of Ghana, particularly for strengthening banking
supervision; and (iv) assistance toward the establishment and start-up of Ghana Stock
Exchange.



19
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
II. PROJECT REVlEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.    Background: As part of the economic recovery programme, the major objectives of
which were to (a) shift relative prices in favour of production, particularly for exports and
efficient import substitution; (b) restore fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) initiate the
restoration of the country's social and economic infrastructure; and (d) to encourage private
investment, the Government of Ghana saw the need to strengthen the financial sector. It was
realized that the financial sector was handicapped by significant institutional weaknesses and
Ghana needed an efficient and dynamic financial sector that would both mobilize domestic
resources and allocate them efficiently to different sectors of the economy.
The Government, therefore, with the IDA, initiated strategies on the financial sector in 1985
and in 1988 the First Financial Sector Adjustment Credit I (FINSAC I) was given to Ghana.
The Government, therefore, developed a comprehensive and far-reaching action programme
with the main aim to:
(i)    enhance the soundness of banking institutions through reforms of the
regulatory framework and the restructuring of distressed financial
institutions;
(ii)   improve deposit mobilization and efficiency in credit allocation; and
(iii)   develop the money and capital markets.
The Main Achievements of the Programme are:
(a)    Liberalization of the financial (banking) environment: This has been achieved
with the removal of ceiling on interest rates and bank charges and the
abolishing of all sectoral credit targets.
(b)    Formulation of improved legal and regulatory framework: The new banking
law has been promulgated and has been effective so far.
(c)    Securing improved banking supervision function: The departnent has been
strengthened and is now able to fulfill its functions under the banking law to
ensure a disciplined banking environment.
(d)   Implementation of a comprehensive bank restructuring programme: Six out of
seven state-owned banks were restructured initially and have improved
considerably since then. The seventh, Ghana COOP Bank has just been
restructured financially following earlier efforts on management and
institutional restructuring. (December, 1993)
(e)    Recovery of non-performing assets: Total recovery has been adequate. Total
recovery expected by 1995 is c18 billion. Total recovery from 1991 to 1993
is 9.9 billion; which is 92.43% of the actual recovery target of cl0.7 billion.



20
(f)    Development of money and capital market: A modest start was made with the
establishment of Consolidated Discount House. Later, Securities Discount
Company Ltd. was also established. The Ghana Stock Exchange was also
established in September 1990 and even though the volume of shares traded
has been relatively low, recent developments in the economy indicate that the
capital market will soon experience a vigorous take-off and a buoyant growth.
(g)    Formulation of the corporate restructuring programme: There was a study
under the programme which identified potentially viable enterprises and non-
viable enterprises.
(h)    Strengthening the accounting and auditing profession: Assistance to the
Institute of Chartered Accounts (ICAG) included the provision of two
consultants to the ICAG who have helped in strengthening the institutional set
up and related activities that affect the effectiveness of the ICAG.
(i)   Improving training: Strengthening of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
and provision of training to staff of the Bank of Ghana and other beneficiary
institutions formed part of the activities under this heading.
2.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION
The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit I was provided by the World Bank in an original
amount equivalent to US$100 million but was subsequently increased to US$106.6 million to
support the financial sector adjustment programme in particular and the Economic Recovery
Programme in general. The loan components are:
Part A:      Imports/Balance of
Payment Support     -      US$95 million
Part B:      Technical Assistance  -    US$11.6 million
The first tranche of the loan was released when the loan became effective in August 1988.
The second tranche was released 17 months after that. It was expected to be released 9
months after the first tranche release. The third tranche was released 6 months after the
second tranche - three months earlier than anticipated. Technical assistance was obtained for
the recruitment of consultants for the various banks and financial institutions.
Items procured under the facility were done according to World Bank regulations. The
technical assistance disbursement was extended to December, 1992.
3.    LOAN DISBURSEMENT
= = --
1988    1989       1990       1991        1992
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ($)  ($)      ($)        ($)         (S)
Part A: Imports
Part B: Technical Assistance        383,000   1,325,000  2,881,000   3,088,000



21
4.    LESSONS LEARNED
The implementation of FINSAC I, initiated in 1988, benefitted from the exchange rate and
fiscal reforms introduced under the economic recovery programme started in 1983. This
supports the view that implementation of comprehensive macro-economic policy initiatives
helps to induce mutually re-enforcing interactions across sectors and provides the basis for
successful sectoral projects.
-     The benefit of detailed pre-implementation planning. In this case it is
necessary to recall that there was a tripartite (Ghana GovtlEdesa
Consultant/IDA) planning session before the implementation of the Banking
Restructuring Programme. The detailed planning of activities proved
beneficial in implementation.
-     The systematic approach, involving well defined phasing of the various bank
structuring activities also contributed to the successful outcome of the
restructuring programme. The banking restructuring programme initially
focussed on damage control issues, then followed by formulation and
implementation of short-term turn-around plans which were also followed by
preparation of rolling corporate plans. The step-by-step restructuring also
recognized the need to tackle management restructuring first, then institutional
restructuring before undertaking financial restructuring.
-     The method used for the recovery of non-performing assets by the
establishment of the NPART, a specialized unit with time-bound life, has been
quite successful. It is also instructive.
-     Technical assistance has been a very useful component of the programme and
has been an effective tool for setting up of NPART, recruitment of experts for
the banks and supporting capacity building in the Bank of Ghana. Assistance
was also given for the establishment of the Ghana Stock Exchange.
Manpower constraints frustrated the rate of implementation in certain areas and underscored
the need to ensure adequacy and sufficiency of manpower requirements and institutional set up
before agreeing on project targets.



22
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDfT I
CRED1T 1911-GH
In. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans & Credits
DATE                  AMOUNT
TITLE                                       (FY)                (US$ ndmlion)
ERP & ERP SFacility                         1984                    76.0
RIC & RIC AFacility                         1985                    87.0
ISAC & ISAC AFacility                       1986                    53.3
EdSAC                                       1987                    34.5
SACI & SACI AFacility                   1987 & 1988             115.0 & 15.0
FINSAC I & Supplement                   1988 & 1989              100.0 & 6.6
SAC II & Supplements                  1989, 1990 & 1991        1201.0, 5.7 & 8.3
EdSAC II                                    1990                     50.0
SAII & Supplements                      1991 & 1992                 120.0
FINSAC n                                    1992                     100
AGSAC                                       1992
PEED                                        1993                      80
41
2.     Credit Data
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ miWlon)
1988       1989       1990        1991        1992
Initial Estimate                       36.0        89.9       106.6
Actual                                 43.2        48.8       100.5       106.6
Actual as % of Estimate



23
3.    Credit Processing Tlmetable
Oiginal Date           Adual Date
Initiating Memorandum                              02/10/88              02/10/88
Appraisal                                02/22/88 - 03/03/88    02/22/88 - 03/0488
Negotiations                                      May 1988              May 1988
Letter of Financial Development Policy          March 1988            March 1988
Board Approval                                May 31, 1988          May 31, 1988
Loan Signing                                  June 14, 1988         June 14, 1988
Effectiveness                                   August 1988       August 11, 1988
Second Tranche Release                          March 1989              June 1990
Third Tranche Release                        December 1989         December 1990
Closing                                  September 30, 1990    December 31, 1992
4.    Mission Data
No. of   No. of   S*ff        Date of
Date         Weeks   Persons   Weeks       Repoil
Appraisal I        Feb. 22 - Mar 4    3       3         9        Mar 21, 1988
Supervision I     Feb 11 - Mar 3     4        4          16      Mar 3, 1989
Supervision I      May 19 - 23        1       2         2        Jun 29, 1989
Supervision III   Sep 30 - Oct 13    4        3          12      Oct 27 1989
Supervision IV     Feb 12 - 28        3        1        3        May 7, 1990
Supervision V     Jun 25 - Jul 13     4       8         32       Aug 20, 1990
Supervision VI     Nov 7 - 26        5        3          15      Dec 6, 1990
Supervision VII    Jun 15 - Jul 7    4        3          12      Jul 30, 1992
Supervision VUI    Aug 13 - 18        1       4         4        Aug 19, 1992
Supervision IX     Oct 8 - 20        2        3         6        Nov 5, 1992
Supervision X      Sep 29 - Oct 8    2         1        2        PCR pending



24                              ANNEX A
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDfT 1911-GH
POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES/ACTIONS                          IMPLEMENTATION
I. Measures to Enhance Soundness of
Banking Institutions
A. Prudential Regulations
1. (i) Establish a minimum capital       1-5: Legal Instrument (L.I. 1389)
adequacy ratio for prudential purposes;  satisfactory to IDA passed in December
(ii) increase minimum amount of paid-up  1988, covering inter alia minimum capital,
capital to establish a bank (to be revised  capital adequacy ratio, development banking
from time-to-time by BOG); (iii) apply   lending limits and auditing requirements
capital adequacy provisions to development   (long-form audit). Enforcement of its
finance institutions engaged in commercial    disposition has started under close
banking; (iv) limit dividends by banks that    monitoring by the central bank (Bank of
do not meet capital adequacy guidelines;  Ghana (BOG).
and (v) empower BoG to mandate greater
capital for prudential purposes for individual  Draft of new Banking Law superseding the
banks on case-by-case basis.             Banking Act 1970 (Act 339) and the
Banking and Financial Institutions Decrees,
1979 (AFRCD 17) under review by IDA.
The new law, embodying the dispositions
introduced under L.I. 1389, was approved
by the PNDC on August 8, 1989.
2. Require development finance
institutions, where engaged in commercial
banking, to provide for statutory reserves of
at lease the levels required of commercial
banks.
3. Place limits on secured as well as
unsecured loans to any single borrower
(individual or enterprise). Place stricter
limits on secured as well as unsecured loan
to companies in which a bank's director has
an interest exceeding a certain percentage.
4. Review and increase penalties for
violation of banking regulations.



25                              ANNEX A
Page 2 of 6
ISSUES/ACTIONS                         IMPLEMENTATION
5. Require audited reports on banks
submitted to BOG to be in long form format
in accordance with other BOG guidelines,
based substantially on international
standards.
6. BOG to require banks to classify their    New accounting and auditing standards for
portfolios according to criteria for    banks were prepared by mid-1988 with
substandard, doubtful and loss assets (to be   support of an international auditing firm,
reported on a periodic basis, together with   reviewed by IDA and subsequently
the specific provisions established). These   incorporated in L.I. 1389.
standards to be developed with the
assistance of an international accounting
firm. Implementation of the full range of
remedial actions to await the appointment of
two technical advisors in bank supervision.
7. Introduce improved reporting         New, improved reporting standards
requirement from banks to the BOG, off-site  satisfactory to IDA were introduced in
analytical capabilities and indicators, as well  1989. Compliance by banks since have
as logistical support.                  been generally satisfactory.
8. Support establishment of a credit     The credit clearing house (to be renamed
clearing house for banks.               interbank credit data bank) initially expected
to start operating by end-1989, is now to be
operational in 1994, following a delay on
account of the Ghana Bankers Association.
B. Banking Supervision
1. Enforce, through guidelines and      Has been in effect since 1989 as part of the
monitoring action, internal controls and in-   restructuring of state-owned banks.
house audits of banks.
2. (i) Issue mandatory minimum terms of    New audit requirements enacted under L.I,
reference expanding scope of external audits  1389. The new standards have been
of banks and (ii) hold periodic discussions    enforced for all banks as of calendar year
between BOG and the auditors.            1988, under BOG's close supervision.
Compliance is generally satisfactory.
3. Strengthen examination methodology and   A new supervision manual has been
skills. Review staffing needs of BoG's  introduced since 1990.
Examination Department, incentives and
staff training, and set up a permanent
training program for examiners.



26                             ANNEX A
Page 3 of 6
ISSUES/ACTIONS                          IMPLEMENTATION
4. Establish computerized system for     Software for the processing of the related
prudential returns for banks and analyze the  returns, including an early warning system,
financial situation of banks based on a set of  has been developed (based on the new
performance indicators. Provide feedback    reporting standards) system in 1989 became
to bankers.                              fully operational by December 31, 1989,
following acquisition of required hardware
in October 1989.
5. Draw up and implement an annual       In 1992, Bank Supervision Department of
inspection plan, including full and targeted    BOG carried out on-site inspections of all
examination (each bank to be visited at least  banks, on the basis of a pre-established
once a year).                            annual inspection plan. This was to be
repeated in 1993 and thereafter.
6. Repeat external audits of banks with  Done for state-owned restructured banks.
assistance of international auditors.
C. Accounting and Auditing
1. Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICA)  A review of training needs and other
has agreed to be the focal point for efforts    measures for improving the accounting
to upgrade and strengthen the accounting  profession was carried out with ODA
profession in Ghana.                     financing. The report's recommendations,
including an action plan for strengthening
ICAG, has been implemented since 1990.
HI. Banking Restructuring
1. Carry out full diagnostic studies by  Completed by 1989.
international auditing firms.
2. Implement safeguard measures to       Directives issued by BOG in February
prevent further deterioration.           1989, which also has been closely
monitoring compliance by banks undergoing
restructuring.
3. Recruitment of an advisor on banking  Restructuring advisory team started work in
restructuring.                           January 1989 under Swiss grant.
4. Formulation of framework and timetable   General Framework document approved by
satisfactory to IDA specifying the modalities  Government in July 1989. Implementation
for the restructuring of banks, in particular   modalities included (i) enabling for NPART
(i) measures for dealing with banks portfolio  and the Special Tribunal; (ii) operational
of non-performing loans, including loans to   guidelines for NPART: and (iii) transitional
state-owned enterprises, and (ii)        measures to arrest deterioration and achieve
rescheduling/conversion of Government's  a return to profitability of restructured
loans to banks.                          banks.



27                            ANNEX A
Page 4 of 6
ISSUESIACT7ONS                         IMPLEMENTATION
5. Agreement with IDA on specific       The cleaning up of banks' portfolios
proposals and targets for a reduction of  through replacement of non-performing
banks' non-performing portfolio (including    assets by Government bonds and/or other
off-balance sheet items).               offsetting operations was achieved by 1991-
92 for six of the seven restructured banks,
except for COOP Bank.
6. Finalization of specific restructuring  Restructuring plans for six of the seven
plans acceptable to IDA for commercial and   distressed banks were completed by end-
development banks.                      1990, reviewed by IDA and implemented
since. The one exception related to COOP
Bank.
7. Undertake study on needs for corporate   The Time-phase study on corporate
sector restructuring.                   restructuring was completed by external
consultants in May 1990. It was
subsequently followed in 1991-92 by an
updating study, by local consultants. A
number of consultants' recommendations
were acted upon under a separate IDA
investment prospect (PEED).
8. Carry out study on exchange risk     It was subsequently jointly decided by
protection.                             Government and IDA to abandon this study,
which no longer appeared relevant following
the abolition of exchange controls.
m. Deposit Mobilization and Credit
Allocation
A. Deposit Mobilization
1. Review provisions in laws and
regulations relating to disclosure of
information.
2. Allow banks to set scale of charges;  Deregulation of banking charges completed
undertake survey of charges on a semi-  by October 1990.
annual basis and publish results.
3. Amend regulations to permit banks to  No such regulations existing in Banking Act
vary working days and business hours of  of August 9, 1989.
branches.
4. Review system for collecting and     Status unknown.
clearing cheques.
5. Allow banks to set own interest      Deregulation of banking deposit rates
differential on demand, savings and time  achieved by February 1988.
deposits.



28                             ANNEX A
Page 5 of 6
ISSUES/ACTIONS                          IMPLEMENTA7ION
6. Design and introduce package of       Completed.
measures to attract emigrants remittances.
B. Credit Allocation
1. Allow banks to set their own interest  Deregulation of banking lending rates
rates on loans.                          achieved by February 1988.
2. Discontinue sectoral credit targets.  Last sectoral credit target, for agriculture,
was removed in November 1990.
3. Establish mechanisms and criteria for  Status uncertain. There appears to be no
determining use of special line of credit and   need for action as the only lines of credit in
other special schemes to be used only in  Ghana are from the Bank Group (for SMEs,
special circumstances                    Export Development, etc.).
4. Review efficacy of Credit Guarantee   This scheme has been dormant and is now
Scheme.                                  inoperative, thus obviating the need for its
review. It is being addressed under the
PEED project.
C. Efficiency of Banking Operations
1. Prepare and circulate standard set of  BOG has been collecting, computing and
average efficiency measures for banks.   analyzing relevant operating ratios for banks
(operating cost, profitability, interest
margin, etc.) for comparison purposes.
IV. Money and Capital Markets
A. Money Market
1. Determine modus operandi for          Consultant report on strengthening CDH,
Consolidated Discount House (CDH).      financed by ODA-UK, completed by April
Establish nature and extent of liquidity  1990 and implemented.
support by BOG. Identify prudential
reporting and monitoring requirement of
BOG. Define operational limits through
acceptance by CDH and BOG of a CDH
Statement of Operational Policies, to be
developed with Technical Assistance.
B. Capital Market
1. Conduct study of (i) investors, (ii)  1-4: Study undertaken by IFC in 1989. Its
corporate issuers and (iii) secondary trading  findings confirmed desirability to proceed
to determine demand.                     with caution in developing regulatory and
institutional (i.e., Stock Exchange)
framework since volume of business was
expected to be thin in early years.



29                             ANNEX A
Page 6 of 6
ISSUES/ACTIONS                          IMPLEMENTATION
2. Review experience in other countries,  Capital and debt market evaluation being
possibly with IFC assistance, and make   continued under PEED project.
decision on applicability in Ghana.
3. Discuss available incentives, review
likely effects and implement.
4. Develop with technical assistance, a
suitable regulatory framework depending
upon outcome of study (IV.B.I.)
5. Give financial and logistical support to   ICAG received financial and logistical
ICA to review and upgrade auditing       support under FINSAC I, which enabled it
standards for corporate sector.         to start work toward developing uniform set
of accounting and auditing standards for
corporate sector. This work is being
supported under FINSAC II.
6. Amend Social Security Decree          Previous regulations restricting investments
Regulation to allow some of social funds  by Social Security National Investment
generated to be invested in long-term    Trust (SSNMI) to Government-issued
securities of credit-worthy finance      securities were rescinded by mid-1990.
institutions and companies.



30                                        ANNEX
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
Finandal Statements of Seven Restructured Banks
(Amounts in ¢million)
BAL4NCE SHEET                                                  31-12-91       31-12-92          30-09g93
ASSE
Cash and short-trmn funds                                        31,789         120,459           86,257
Inveatments/FINSAP bonds                                        181,005         192,174         230,184
Advances                                                         40,976         57,291            85,436
Other asse accounts                                              29,311         76,820            73,796
333,081        446,744          477,673
Trade inveatments                                                   611            241             2,888
Fixod assts8.013                                                                 1.3              13.30
TOTAL ASSETS                                                    341706         459.321          493.883
LWIABEL ES
Deposits/curnt accounts                                         173,890        246,990          271,643
Croditom  and acenuals                                          104,796         127,637          120,054
278,686        374,627          391,697
Borrowings                                                       11.0S           18               13.734
TOTAL LLABILITIES                                               389.781        390415           495A31
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS
Stated capital                                                   10,306          11,306           11,682
Reorvea                                                          26,283         37,589           58,948
Reained uanings                                                                 20.1             J
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS                                                          88.863
PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Intered income                                                   39,743         39,352           48,350
Interest expense                                                1i.401           1409             16.216
NET INTEREST INCOME
Commission and fees                                               6,725           9,710            9,390
Other operating income                                            37              S9                S9
TOTAL OPERATING INCOME                                           mm             ,Q               41
Operating expenser                                                              21.652           20.289
OPERATING PROFTr                                                 23,621          19,224          21,829
Charge for doubtful debts                                        13.79            i                 A8
NET OPERATING PROFIT                                              9,831          8,546            19,343
Other income                                                        149            277              684
Exceptional itenm                                                 L(10           L.0             Z2.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                                                 9,872          10,430          22,257
Taxation                                                          S9             26                53
PROFIT AFFER TAX                                                  3,911          7,964            16,864



31                                      ANNEX B
Page 2 of 2
4IL4NCK SHEET                                               31-12-91       31-12-92         30-09-93
RATIO ANALYSIS
Operating expeuaca: Total opeating income                      39.1%         53.0%           48.2%
Operating expen: Average assets                                4,9%           5.4%             4.7%
Total operating income: Average                                12.4%          10.2%           11.8%
Opating profit: Avenge saets                                   7.6%           4.8%             5.4%
Profit beforo tax: Average  sea                                 3.2%          2.6%             6.2%
Profit after tax: Average asets                                 1.3%          2.0%            4.7%
P.A.T.: Averge shareholders' finda                              8.4%         13.2%           28.5%



32                                     ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
Loan Portfolio Classification of Restructured Banks
(Amounts in ¢rmillion)
09/30/
(Yw-End           1988        1989       1990       1991         1992         1993
A. Total Portfolio               65,168      86,503     72,553     78,098      114,507      131,801
Outstanding
B. Perforning Loans              27,658      23,851     28,412     46,380       77,121       94,139
C. Non-Perfonning Loans          37,510      62,652     44,141     31,718       37,386       37,662
(C = A -B)
D. Percentage of                 57.7%        72.5%     60.6%      40.6%        32.8%        28.5%
Non-Performing Loans
(D = C/A)
Notes: (1) Non-Performing Loans are those classified in the following three categories: sub-standard, doubtful
and loss, in accordance with Bank of Ghana guidelines.
(2) The aggregate data on this table relate to 6 of 7 rstructured banks: GCB, SSB, NSCB, NIB, ADB
and BHC. The data relating to the COOP Bank are not available.



33                                      ANNEX D
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIr I
CREDIT 1911-GH
Aggregate Balance Sheet Statements of All Banks, 1988-1992
(Amounts in Cmillion)
ASSETS                                 1988         1989         1990         1991           1992
Cash & Short-tenn Funds             106,805      140,986      213,954       256,186       272,339
Cash in hand                       6,724       10,415       12,207       23,344         51,836
Balances with bank of Ghana       22,516       28,832       33,034       43,770         59,659
Balances with banks               33,443       35,588       64,578       72,283         58,496
Money at short notice             43,623       66,187      104,085      116,832        104,347
Investments                          30,727       66,648       148,123     210,873        250,006
Government Securities              9,162       17,665       38,153      129,583         98,426
Bank of Ghana Bills                 957         4,749       10,818        8,153         19,888
Treasury Bills                       260            0        6,555        2,990           240
Tenm placements                   10,227       34,165       51,245       45,326         76,185
Bills discounted                  10,042        9,919       22,489       20,738         47,281
Other Bills                           49          150        8,863        4,083          8,184
Lons and Overdrafts (net)            58,193       41,918       57,355        78,472       135,245
Loans                             46,951       53,915       55,770       55,670         63,702
Overdrafts                        42,027       44,146       46,926       63,365        114,888
Provisions for debts             (35,785)     (56,143)     (46,341)      (40,562)     (42,790)
Other Assets                         40,289       50,485       54,608        64,870        93,857
Investmcnts in subsidiaries (net)     2,726        9,208        2,678         8,379         3,044
Shares                             1,433        1,180        1,255        1,606          2,575
Loans                              4,156       10,872        2,177        2,501          2,158
Provisions                        (2,861)      (2,778)        (754)        (780)        (1,688)
Fixed Assets                         11.117l                   i281          15.042        21.318
Total Assets                        244359       321.942        4897531     628.819       775.809
LUablltles
Deposits                            158,976      243,373      320,298      430,639        495,462
Savings Accounts                  32,450       43,685      105,294      193,846        144,841
Current Accounts                  98,790      164,980      168,777      181,946        288,891
Time Deposits**                   27,720       34,758       46,227       48,245         73,699
0            0            0        6,902          8,031
Creditors and Accruals               73,607       71,439       110,439       24,179       180,439
Borrowings                           18,687       21,841        5,660        10,336        14,937
Local                              4,896        7,327        2,204        5,315          7,627
Formign                           13.792       14.814        2.881        5.021          7.310
Total Liabilities                   251.270      336753       436.889       565.454       690.638
Stated Capital                        3,442        4,585        18,529       15,685        19,206
Capital Surplus                       3,062        3,886        3,685         3,872         4,826
Exchange Reserve                      5,091        9,755        17,990      23,795         33,183
1,523
Income Surplus                      (19.505)      (32.498)      12.988      20Q.3M         26.134
Shareholders' Funds                  (6,910)      (14,812)     53,192       63,366         84,971
Liabilities & Shareholders' Funds   244.359      321,942      489.531       628.819       7
Contingent Liabilities               5 8          69.903       S7.808        3               N.A.



34                                     ANNEXE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSIMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
Aggregate Income Statements of All Banks
(CZmiliion)
(Year,uO                             1988         1989         1990         1991          1992
Interest Income                     25,287       25,255       45,036       71,653        72,143
Shoit-term funds                  4,292        5,406        12,660      22,956         18,106
Investments                       4,902        5,503        15,644      28,185        31,502
Advances                         16,093        14,346       16,732      20,512        22,534
Interest Expense                   13,753       16,086        19,143      26,782         28,101
Savings accounts                 6,332         5,688       11,499       17,178        14,359
Current accounts                   117          359          308         1,126         4,216
Time accounts                    5,541         7,593        4,801        6,462         7,175
Borrowings                       1,763        2,446         1,535        2,016         2,351
Interet Margin                     11,584        9,169       25,893       44,871         44,042
Other Operating Income             20,199       12,246        18,722       19,952        29,091
Commissions and fees             6,937        9,352         9,550       12,976        16,004
Profits on exchange (net)        12,534       2,006         2,968        4,868        10,476
Dividends from investments          56          263          477          816          1,381
Other                              672          625          727         1,293         1,230
Gross Earnings Margin              31,733       21,415       39,615       64,824         73,133
Operating Costs                    21,170       18,274       21,238       32,270         36,096
Staff costs                     12,095        12,114       12,865       17,302        23,865
Occupancy costs                   1,363        1,452        1,702        2,647         2,952
Other operating costs            7,713        4,708         6,671       12,321         9,280
Net Earnings Margin                10,562        3,141        18,376      32,553         37,037
Other Costs (net)                  20,561       13,398       (13,733)      15,944        13,449
Depreciation costs               2,068         1,663       2,552          1,90         2,399
Net provisions for bad debts     18,689      20,283        12,432       15,757        13,182
Other income                       196         8,548       28,717        1,719         2,183
Profit (loss) Before Tax           (9,999)      (10,257)     32,109        16,609        23,598
Taxes                               2,348         1,085       5,370        10,950         9,072
Profit (loss) After Tax           (12,347)     (11,342)      26,739        5,659         14,516
Allocation of Profit
Dividends                              35           98          545         1,411
Statutory reseves                     154          262        7,360        2,391
Other rserves                           1            0            0            0
Income surplus                    (12,556)     (11,702)       1,626         1,857
Adjustments                            20            0       17,208            0
Sourm: BOG
1988 includes OCB, BBG, SCB, NSCB, NIR, MB, ADB, BHC, SSB, BCC, and OH, COOP. (GCB data covers 18
months because the fiscal year end-1987 is June.)
1989 includes GCB, BBG, SCB, NSCB, NIB, MB, ADB, BHC, SSB, BCC and COOP.
1990 includes GCB, BBO, SCB, NSCB, NIB, MB, ADB, BHC, SSB, BCC, COOP, ECO & CAL. (Data for
Ecobalk covers 9 month ending December 1990.)
1991-92 includes GCB, BBO, SCB, NSCB, NIB, MB, ADB, BHC, SSB, BCC, COOP, ECO & CAL.



35                                     ANNEX F
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
CREDIT 1911-GH
Selected Data on Flnandal Intermediation
(Cmillion at end of period)
Sept.
1988       1989        1990       1991       1992       1993
Money Supply                    139,031    185,153    216,958    227,190    360,685    374,446
Quasi-Money                     50,155      54,918     66,284      96,591    158,658    184,137
Broad Money (M2)                189,186    240,071     283,242    392,671    523,604    558,583
M2/GDP                           18.0        16.9       14.0        13.0       17.0
Total Assets of Banking Sydem   231,000    322,000    490,000    629,000    776,000
Equity Capital of Bankdng System    (6,900)    (14,812)  53,192    63,366     84,971
Credit to Private Sector        37,408      79,361     80,201      83,084    138,516    185,966
Private Sector Deposits         105,970    103,012     140,118    171,737    241,099
Total Deposits                  158,976    243,373     320,298    430,639    495,462
Banks' Fixed Deposit Rates (%)   19.25-     19.25-      16.25-     21.00-     15.50-    22.00-
25.50      25.50       25.50      32.00      20.00      24.25
Treauzy Bill Rates (%)           19.00      19.00      20.00-      20.00-     18.00-     29.50
27.50      32.00      25.00
BOO Discount Rates                          26.00      26.00-      20.00-     20.00-     30.00-
30.00      35.00      30.00      35.00
Banks' Lending Rates            22.50-      22.50-     22.50-      22.50-     19.00-    25.50-
30.25      30.25       30.25      36.00      29.00      31.50
Banks' Profit (Loss) Before Tax  (9,999)    (10,257)   32,109      16,609     23,358
PBT as % of Total Assets         -11.9       -3.8        7.8        3.0        3.4
PBT am % of Equity              -142.8      -69.3       60.3        26.3       27.5
Banks' Profit (Loss) After Taxes    (12,347)    (11,342)  26,739   5,659      14,516
Provisions for Bad Debts        35,785      56,143     45,341      40,582     42,790
Provisions as % of Portfolio     40.20      57.30       44.20      34.10      24.00



ANNEX F
36                               Page 2 of 2
Sept.
1988       1989        1990       1991        lm        1993
Non-Performing Loansl/           37,510     62,652      44,141      31,718     37,386     37,662
Non-Perfonning Loans as % of      57.7       72.5        60.6        40.6       32.8       28.5
Portfolio2/
Banks' Liquid Reserves as % of                53          56         62          68        70
Total Deposits
I/      Data relating to the 6 restructured banks: GCB, SSB, NIB, ADB, NSCB and BHC.
2/      Data relating to the 6 retructured banks: GCB, SSB, NIB, ADB, NSCB and BHC.









