Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4781-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXLCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CRErIT
OF SDR 72.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
May 9, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit - Cedi
Cedi 1.00     =  US$0.0055
US$1.00       -  181 cedis
(Februiary 1988)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -  Agricultural Development Bank
AfDB      -  African Development Bank
ASM       -  Accra Securities Market
Barclays  -   Barclays Bank of Ghana
BHC       -   Bank for Housing and Construction
BOG       -   Bank of Ghana
CCH       -   Credit Clearing House
CDH       -   Consolidated Discourt House
COCOBOD   -   Cocoa Marketing Board
Coep Bank -   Ghana Cooperative Bank
ERP       -   Economic Recovery Program
GCB       -   Ghanq Conmmercial Bank
GIC       -   Gha.aa Investments Cei.ter
GOG       -   Government of Ghana
NIB       -   National Investment Bank
NSCB      -   National Savings and Credit Bank
PNDC      -   Provisional National Defense Council
SOE       -   State-Owned Enterprises
SSB       -   Social Security Bank
SSNIT     -   Social Security and National Insurance Trust
Standard  -   Standard Chartered Bank of Ghana



FM OFFMAL US ONLY
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY  ..................................i
I.  THE ECONOMY .                ............................................1
A.    Background  ........................................1
B.    The Economic Recovery Program  .....                  ................1
C.    Medium-Term  Prospects  .............................                               3
II.   THE FINANCIAL  SECTOR  .......              ........................ .                     4
A.    Background         ................................... .                             4
B.    The  Structure  of the Financial Sector                     .............           4
C.    The Policy and Regulatory Framework  ....                    ...........            5
1.    Deposit Mobilization  .........................                               5
2.    Credit Allocation  ............................                              6
3.    Liquidity Management .........................                                7
4.    Money Market  .................................                              8
5.    Capital Market  .....         ..... ....................                     9
6.    Regulatory Policies ..........................                              10
7.    Banking Supervision  ..........................                             11
III.  AN AGENDA FOR ACTION               ....................      ...............              11
A.    Measures  to Improve Deposit Mobilization and to
Increase  the Efficiency of Credit Ailocation    ....                          12
1.    Deposit Mobilization  .........................                             12
2.    Efficiency  of Credit Allocation  ....                 ..........           12
3.    Efficiency of Banking Operations  ....                  .........           13
4.    Money Market ................................13
5.    Capital Market  .....         ...... ...................                    13
B.    Amending Laws and Regulations  ........ .               ..........                 14
C,   Bankinp Supervision  ...............................                                15
D.    Bank Restructuring  ................................                               15
E.    Corporate Restructuring  ...........................                               17
F.    Rural Finance  .....................................                               17
C.    Foreign Exchange Risk  .............................                               18
IV.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT  .........           ...........................                      18
A.    Origin and Objectives    .................8.......  ...                            i
B.    The Macroeconomic  Context  .............             .....                        19
C.    Description .......................................                                19
1.    Sector Reform Component  .................                I ...             19
2.    Technical Assistance  Component  ....               ....... ...             19
D.  Procurement and Disbursement                           ..                            20
1.    Sector Reform Component  ......................                             20
2.    Technical Assistance  Component  ....                 ...........           21
This dorumeni has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintin



Pale No.
3.   Monitorable Actions .                                             21
1. Conditions for Effectiveness .21
2.   Conditions for Second Tranche Release                        22
3.   Conditions for Third Tranche Release                         22
F. Justification and Risks    ..23
1. Justification .23
2. Risks .                                                        23
V.   UAK GROUP OPERTIONS  _                                                  24
VI. COLLABORATION WITH THE IF . ..25
1. Fund Relations with Ghana.                                     25
2. Bank-Fund Collaboration .25
VII. UICOHHNDATION ..                                                        25
1-1  Key Economic Indicators
'-2  balance of Payments
1-3  External Financing Requirements
2-1  Assets and Liabilities of Banks
2-2  CDP/Money Supply
2-3  Deposits and Their St:ucture
2-4  Total Bank Credit to Private Sector and Public
Enterprises by Sector
3-1  Study of Measures Needed to Enhance the Money Markets
3-2  Study of Potential for a Stock Market
3-3  Technical Assistance Program for the Bank of Ghana
3-4  Technical Assistance to Support the Establishment
of a Credit Cloaring House
3-5  Technical Assistance for the Institute of Chartered Accountants
3-6  Technical Assistance Program for Bankers' Training
3-7  Terms of Reference for a Bank Restructuring Adviser
3-S  Corporate Restructuring
3-9  Technical Assistance and Studies - Summary of Costs
4    Stat em nt of Financial Policy
5    Status cf Bank Group Operations in Ghana
Map



- i -
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Ghana
Credit
Amount:
IDA:         SDR 72.1 million (US$100 million equivalent)
Tcrms :         Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Progrum
Description:   The credit would support a comprehensive and far-reaching
Government program for the development of a well functioning -nd
broadly-based financial sector, through the implementation of
in-depth policy and institutional reforms. An action program has
been prepared with Bank assistance to cover the 1988-1990 period
and to be supported by the proposed credit. The main objectives of
the program are (i) the enhanced soundness of banking institutions,
through an improved regulatory framework, strengthened banking
supervision by the Central Bank (Bank of Ghana), and the
restructuring of financially distressed banks, (ii) improved
deposit mobilization and increased efficiency in credit allocation,
and (iii) development of money and securities markets.
Program
Benefits:       The reform program is expected to foster the development of a
strong, efficient, and responsive financial sector, with an
effective banking system at its core, to provide the needed support
for the ongoing structural adjustment effort. The liberalization
of interest rates and removal of sectoral ceilings will gr?atly
contribute to enhancing the efficiency of financial intermediation
by channeling savings to higher yielding investments. The
restructuring of financially distressed banks, training programs
for their employees, and improvement in the supervision by the Bank
of Ghana should ensure the soundness of future banking activities
and increase confidence in the banking system. The development of
money and capital markets and an initial program for corporate
r4structuring would stimulate private investment. The reform
program would also provide for the development of the profession of
auditors and accountants.
Program
Risks:          The main risk relates to the inherent complexity of undertaking a
sector-wide restructuring of the banking system which requires the
strong commitment ,.f the Ghanaian authorities as well as the full
cooperation of the 3anks' management. Other risks include the
timely and adequate availability of resources, and the strain the
project will place on the country's implementation capabilities.



- ii -
These risk. are, however, mitigated by (a) the Government's
commitment to undertake banking restructuring on a sound basis, in
accordance with principles formulated in consultation with IDA, and
to se%. IDA's agreement on individual restructuring plans prior to
their implementation; (b) the tranching of the credit, which would
further ensure satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
sector reform program overall, and of banking restructuring in
particular; and (c) finally, the sector reforms contained in the
Action Program, in particular the liberalization of interest rates,
the improvement of the regulatory framework and strengthening of
Central Bank supervisory functions, which are expected to go a long
way in ensuring the future competitiveness, efficiency, and
soundness of the banking system.
Financ in
Plan:
(US$ million)
IDA                                 US$100
Cofinanciers                        US$140
Government (1)                      US$ 60
Private Sector                      USS 25
TIS $3 25
(1) Principally through the conversion of loans into
equity/quasi-equity and repurchase by Government of Ghana (GOG)
of non-performing loans to state-owned enterpr(ses (SOEs..
Eat imated
Disbursements: The credit would be disbursed in three tranches: The first tranche
of US$45 million equivalent would be available upon effectiveness,
the second of US$30 million after a first performance review to be
held around February 1989 and the third tranche of US$20 million
equivalent after a second performance review to be held around
December 1989. IDA's disbursements have been adjusted to take into
consideration the fact that contributions from two main other
doftors, Japan (US$55-70 million equiv'alent.., and African
Development Bai'k (AfDB--US$50 million equivalent) would be
available for second and third tranches only. Disbursements of the
US$5 million equivalent technical assistance component are not
tranched, but will be monitored through an implementation schedule.
Staff Araisal
Report:       This is a combined President's and Appraisal Report.
No. 18112R1



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
FINANCIAL 'PCTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
1.              I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 72.1 million (US$100 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Financial Sector Adjustment Project.
I. THE ECONOMY
A.   Bac1ixround
2.        A report entitled Ghana:  Pc'.cies and Issues of Structural
Adjustment (Report No. 6635-GH) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
March :987. Key economic indicators appear in Annex ;-1.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a high standard of living compared with most
other West African nations. But drought, poor economic policies, and
increases in oil prices led to a significant decline in per capita income
during the 1970s and early 1980s. Ever since the inception of the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983, however, GDP growth has averaged above 5Z a
year, about 2Z over the growth rate of the population. But the per capita
income remains low at $380 (1985), and an estimated half of the population
lives in absolute poverty (Annex 1-1).
4.        The country is well endowed with natural and human resources.
Agriculture accounts for 412 of GDP and provides income for about 70Z of the
population. Ghana is the world's third largest producer of cocoa, which
accounts for about two-thirds of the country's export earnings. The country
also possesses valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, and hydropower
generates most electricity, some of which is exported to neighboring
countries. Manufacturing output increased substantially after Independence
in 1957, due to government policies that encouraged import substitution
industries behind a wall of protection. Services, which account for over a
third of GDP, are dominated by retail and wholesale trade.
B.   The Economic Recovery Program
5.        Between 1970 and 1982, per capita income in Ghana declined by 30Z,
import volumes fell by a third, real export earnings halved, domestic savings
and investment fell to almost negligible levels, and inflation ran at an
average of 44Z a year. In 1983, the newly constituted Provisional National
Defense Council (PNDC) introduced an Economic Recovery Program to reverse the
decline in living standards and restore growth to the economy.
6.        The ERP's major objectives were to: (a) shift relative prices in
favor of production, particularly for exports and efficient import substi-
tution; (b) restore fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) initiate the
restoration of the country's social and economic infrastructure; and (d)
encourage private investment. The centerpiece of the reform was a move to



- J. -
introduce a more realistiL exchange rate. The cedi was devalued from 2.75
cedis to the U.S. dollar in April 1983 to 90 cedis to the U.S. dollar by
January 1986. In September 1986, the Government introduced a second tier
auction system, and in February 1987 the auction and official exchange rates
were officially unified. Initially the auction was limited to producer
goods, but its coverage has been expanded steadily, and by February 1988 all
imported gcods were eligible for funds from the auction. Administered
prices, particularlf cocoa and petroleum, have been adjusted at regular
intervals to reflect changes in the exchange rate, and widespread price and
distribution controls have been abolished. Interest rates were adjusted
upwards steadily, and finally in September 1987 all interest rates except
those for savings deposits were liberalized. In the area of fiscal policy,
the Government's efforts have concentrated on eliminating subsidies,
mobilizing resources through improved Lax collection and selective increases
in taxes, and providing more adequately for maintenance and capital
expenditures. In addition, the Government raised public sector wages and
salaries to offset partially the drastic erosion of real incomes in previous
years. At the same time, it reversed the previous severe compression of
salary differentials between the lowest and highest paid members of the civil
service.
7.        The response of the economy was crippled initially by the drought
in 1983 and insufficient aid flows. Since 1984, however, performance
improved on several counts. Growth averaged over 5? a year, the Government's
fiscal position inproved markedly, the rapid growth of the money supply was
curbed, and the trade balance improved substantially (Annex 1-2). In
addition, the Government introduced significant improvements in public
expenditure policies. It initiated rehabilitation programs for
infrastructure in the cocoa, timber, gold, and transport sectors. At the
same time, the Government prepared a rolling three-year development program
based on reviews of public expenditures conducted jointly with IDA. At this
stage, the high level of inflation (39X in 1987) remains a major concern.
The main reasons are (i) the significant devaluation of the currency in 1986,
(ii) the decline in food production, (iii) the increase in domestic petroleum
prices, (iv) a 50X rise in M2 in the latter half of 1986. However, there are
signs that inflation is decelerating. The national consumer price index rose
only 5.1? in the second semester of 1987.
8.        The second phase of the Government's ERP (sometimes termed the
Structural Adjustment Program) is currently under implementation and has as
its principal objectives continued economic growth, sustained fiscal and
monetary discipline, increased levels of domestic savings and investment,
improvements in the efficiency of public resource management, and further
development of the private sector. To achieve these goals, the Government is
moving on five broad fronts. It is progressively liberalizing its trade and
exchange rate policies by expanding the official foreign excharge market to
include banks and authorized dealers, and by rationalizing the structure of
trade taxes and tariffs. To maintain racent production gains in the cocoa
sector, additional incentives are being provided for cocoa producers and
steps are being taken to improve the efficiency of COCOBOD's operations. The
Government is improving public resource management by further improvements in
tax policy and administration and in refining the public expenditure planning
process. The efficiency of the public sector is being enhanced through a
reform of the state-owned enterprise sector, which includes policy changes to
encourage the commercial operation of SOEs, rehabilitation of priority SOEs,
and a divestiture program for SOEs through liquidation or outright sale to



- 3 -
the private sector.  And finally, the Government is improving its manage nt
of the public sector by reducing the number of surplus civil servants,
recruiting skilled Ghanaians to strengthen policy planning and coordination
in the higher reaches of the Government, and providing logistical support to
agencies responsible for implementing the Structural Adjustment Program.
9.        Ghana's total external debt in 1987 was estimated at US$2.6
billion, including 1.76 billion medium and long-term foreign debt. According
to IMF and World Bank estimates, the country's foreign debt is likely to
increase over the years, reaching 3.24 billion in 1990 and 4.6 billion in
1995, with medium and long-term debt reaching 2.49 and 3.74 billion,
respectively. In 1987, the debt service ratio excluding IMF and arrears was
26.3Z (60.52 including IMP deb service and payment of arrears), down from
37.4Z the previous year. However, this debt-service ratio is expected to
decline steadily in the future, reaching 30.1Z (including DMP debt-service
and payments of arrears) by 1990 (Annex 1-3).
10.       To support the ongoing reforms, and to facilitate the restructuring
and rehabilitation of the economy, Ghana needs an efficient and dynamic
financial sector that both mobilizes domestic resources and allocatee them
efficiently to different sectors of the economy. However, like some other
sectors of the economy, the formal financial sector remains burdened by the
legacy of its past, and is consequently unable to cope with the demands
placed upon it by the Structural Adjustment Program. The banking system, in
particular, faces severe financial difficuities, which if left unaddressed,
could hamper the future progress of the economy, and constrain seriously the
supply response to the new incentive framework that the Government has
intioduced. To address these problems, and to place the entire financial
system in Ghana on firmer foundations, the Government has prepared a
comprehensive financial sector action program that it has already begun to
implement. The proposed credit would support the implementation of the
program and finance technical assistance to strengthen key financial
institutions.
C.   Medium-Term Prospects
11.       The Government's medium-term objectives, as stated in its policy
framework paper, are to achieve an annual average growth rate of real CDP of
about 5Z, reduce the inflation rate to 8SZ by 1990, and maintain a healthy
ualance of payments position after meeting its program for the liquidation of
external arrears. The GDP growth target of 52 per year will require a strong
performance from both agriculture and industry. In agriculture, cocoa is
expected to continue its recovery, and the prospects for food and industrial
crops appear bright. And in the industrial sector, the rehabilitation of
Ghana's mines will permit the steady expansion of mining output, and
manufacturing is projected to respond to improved incentives and the greater
availability of spare parts and inputs. Ghana's macroeconomic prospects,
however, are contingent upon a continuation of its present structural
adjustment program and a tavorable international economic environment,
particularly for its principal exports of cocoa and gold. In addition, the
expansion of the economy will depend crucially on the availability cf
concessional assistanc3 at the projected levels.



II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.   Backaround
12.       Work on Ghana's financial sector began some two years ago, as the
structural adjuatment process was underway, because the financial system
appeared to be potentially a serious constraint to grcwth in the real
sectors. This culminated in a major review in April 1S87 by V joint 'working
group' of Ghanaians and Bank staff which identified key problems and proposed
a wide ranging program of reforms (the Action Program) which the present
operation intends to support.
B.   The Structure of the Financial Sector
13.       The formal financial system is dominated by three primary
commercial banks (the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), the Standard Chartered
BAnk of Ghana (Standard), and the Barclays Bank of Ghana (Barclays)), seven
secondary banks (the Soci&l Security Bank (SSB), the Bank of Housing and
Construction (BHC), the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), the National
Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB), the National Investment Bank (NIB), the
Merchant Bank, and the Bank of Credit and Commerce), a small cooperative
bank, Ghana Cooperative Bank (Coop Bank), and over one hundred rural banks.
Of the total assets of the banking system of around 156 billicn cedis (about
25Z of GDP), some 57Z are in the three primary banks, although the secondary
and rural banks have been growing faster. All the primary and secondary
banks accept deposits from the public and with the exception of the Bank of
Credit and Commerce, are either partly or wholly owned by the Government.
Annex 2-1 details the aggregate assets and liabilities of the banking system.
14.       The three government-owned development finance i;lstitutions have
increased their level of commercial banking activity in recent years, and at
the end of 1986, one-quarter of their outstanding liabilities was accounted
for by demand, savings, and time deposits. Nevertheless, they face serious
financial difficulties arising from a huge foreign exchange exposure and/or
loss, a substantial non-performing portfolio, and a complete erosion of net
worth.
15.       The rural banks are owned and managed by their respective local
communities. They are private unit banks established to mobilize resources
in rural areas and extend credit locally. The Bank of Ghana has usually
contributed to the initial capital of each rural bank with the intention of
divesting its holdings to the private owners at a later stage. Despite the
large number of rural banks, the rural banking sector accounts for under ,Z
of the total deposits mobilized by the banking system as a whole. A large
number of rural banks are in financial difficulties, but their "unit nature
has contained the effect of this problem on the banking system.
16.       The money market is composed of the recently opened Consolidated
Discount House Ltd. The Discount House is charged with the task of acting as
an inter-bank intermediary for short-term assets to enable banks to manage
better their liquidity position. The Consolidated Discount House is
permitted to deal in treasury bills, short-dated governmeat securities,
bankers' acceptances, cocoa bills, negotiable short term certificates of
deposit, and commercial paper.



- 5 -
17.       Ghana possesses a very rudimentary capital market that has been
unable to make a substantial contribution to the mobilization of long term
resources. The few transactions that occur are usually in long dated
government stock, and shares of private companies change hands occasionally.
The National Trust Holding Company quotes shares of eighteen companies on a
monthly basis, but its insufficient capital base and the limited number of
tradeable shares in the system have prevented it from playing a more active
part in capital market transactions.
18.       The remaining non-banking sector is limited principally to the
Social Security and National Insurance Tru6t (SSNIr) and eleven insurance
companies. SSNIT is a government-owned institution charged with providing
social security payments to workers upon their retirement from service. All
enterprises with five or more employees must become members of SSNIT and
contributions amount to 17.52 of the wage bill, 52 of which are contributed
by workers and 12.52 by employers. Out of a membership of 1.5 million,
however, only about 600,000 pay their monthly dues. Until late 1986, SSNIT
was compelled to invest its funds in government stock specially created for
It, yielding 5.52 to 62, but it now has the freedom to invest its funds in
assets of its own chocesing. As a result it has been a major purchaser of
treasury bills and long dated government securities.
19.       Like the rest of the economy, the banking system in Ghana has
suffered adversely from the generally low-level of productive activities
during the period of economic decline, although a few institutions are
reportedly profitable and relatively efficient. Its current distressed
situation can be characterized inter alia by (i) huge non-performing loan
portfolios, (ii) inadequate provisions for portfolio losses, (iii) inflated
profits, (iv) high operational costs, (v) potential/actual foreign exchange
exposure, (vi) insolvency, (vii) capital inadequacy, and (viii) inadequate
accounting systems, management information and internal controls.
Comprehensive externai diagnostic audits by international auditors have been
undertaken for the nine main banks (GCB, SSB, Barclays, BHC, NIB, ADB,
Standard, NSCB and Coop Bank) to obtain an indepth and accurate assessment of
the operating and financial condition of each of these banks, and provide a
basis for determining their restructuring prospects and requirements.
C.   The Policy and Regulatory Framework
1.   Deposit Mobilization
20.       The formal financial system has not proved an effective vehicle for
mobilizing domestic resources. The M2/GDP ratio in Ghana is low by
international standards, and indicates the low level of financial interme-
diation in the economy (Annex 2-2). During the 1970s and early 1980s,
liquidity expansion was fuelled by large government deficits finticed
domestically by the Central Ba;k. Excessive money creation at a time of
stagnant growth and investment stoked inflation and turned government-
determined deposit rates deeply negative in real terms. In addition, the
lack of longer term lending opportunities provided few incentives for banks
to attract term savings. Instead those with surplus ftunds tended to invest
in inflation-hedged assets such as real estate.
21.       Since 1983, the Ghanaian authorities have pursued a flexible
interest rate policy aimed at mobilizing domestic savings (Annex 2-3), in
line with their growth and stabilization objectives. Accordingly, minimum



-  6  -
rates for savings and time derosits were adjusted upwards repeatedly from
8.251-9Z in 1983 to 222-232 in 1987. In addition, declining inflation during
this period as a result of fiscal and monetary discipline on the part of the
Goverr.ment helped turn real deposit rates positive for the first time in more
than a decade. However, as the rate of inflation climbed in 1986 and 1987,
real interest rates once again turned negative. In September 1987, the
Government liberalized all interest rates excepi for savings deposits which
have been pegged at a minimum of 21.52. Full liberalization has been
achieved in February 1988.
22.       The disincentives to depositors during the 1970s and early 1980s
arising from negative real interest rates were compounded by a series of ad
hoc monetary measures which shook the confidence of the public in the banking
system. These measures included the demonetization of 50 cedi notes, the
freezing of bank deposit accounts in excess of 50,000 cedis and investigation
for tax liability and possible corruption or fraud, the recall of bank loans
for the financing of trading inventories, and the compulsory payment by
checks for all business transactions in excess of 1,000 cedis. The immediate
response by firms and individuals was to rechannel their financial resources
into the unregulated informal f.nancial sector.
23.       There are signs that confidence in the banking system is returning
gradually. Currency held outside the banking system as a proportion of
narrow money fell to below 502 in 1986, and the Government's recent announce-
ment that it would compensate those affected by the demonetization of the 50
cedi notee should serve to reinforce this trend. However, there remains a
lingering distrust which can only be removed by assurances in word and deed
that the Government will respect confidentiality of bank accounts, avoid
undue interferenci in financial transactions, and take actions to Dreserve
the sound financial health of banking institutions.
24.       The poor record of deposit mobilization by the banking system can
also be attributed to the inferior quality of customer services of a number
of banks and the limited range of financial instruments aimed at mobilizing
savings. In addition, banks find it difficult to improve the efficiency of
their operations and red    intermediation costs because of antiquated
systems and procedures and the shortage of trained and qualified staff. The
Bank of Ghana regulates charges that banks can levy on their customers,
thereby curtailing competition between banks and reducing incentives to
improve efficiency. The efficiency of banks is also affected by the lack of
high denomination currency notes. The Bank of Ghana recently issued a 500
cedi note and plans to introduce a 1000 cedi note shortly. But a case can be
made for yet higher denominations which can shorten queues in banks and
reduce the costs of counting large wads of notes. As far as the branch
network of the banks are concerned, the banks are required to obtain the
permission of the GOB before altering their opening and closing hcurs. This
practice reduces the ability of banks to respond effectively to the needs of
their clientele, and could therefore be discontinued.
2.   Credit Allocation
25.       The BOG has been controlling the growth and allocation of credit by
the bankihg system through global and sectoral credit ceilings. To determir...
the total quarterly credit expansion by any individual bank, the BOG first
determines the overall rate of credit expansion consistent with projections
of real economic growth and inflation. Until February 1988, sectoral growth



-7  -
rates were established according to the development priorities of the
Government, and guidelines were then issued to individual banks based on the
application of these growth rates to the outstanding loans at the beginning
of the period. The allocation for agricultural lending (202 of the total)
was serving as a minimum whereas for other sectors it was usually a maximum.
All secvoral lending targets have now been removed, except for agricultural
lending.
26.       Until recently lending rates also were controlled by the Bank of
Ghana. Before 1986, agriculture was favored with preferential lending rates.
But while this encouraged the demand for credit, it also discouraged the
banks from lending to the sector, with the result that agricultural lending
invariably fell short of the targets required of each bank. After 1986,
however, lending rates were more or less unified, and in September 1987
lending rates were completely liberalized. Between September and December,
lending rates appear to have barely moved and continue to be negative in real
terms.  Some rates have edged upwards, particularly for riskier loans, but
despite excess liquidity in the banking system, the rate structure has not
changed substantially because the binding credit ceiling precludes any
further expansion of credit.
27.       Partly as a result of interest rate controls, term transformation
has been a problem for the Ghanaian banking system. Banks were unable to
compensate for risk and maturity by varying their interest rates. In
addition, the high proportion of banks' liabilities at the short end of the
maturity structure (mainly demand deposits) have constrained their ability tc
lend long term. Furthermore, large holders of long term funds, such as the
Social Security and National Insurance Trust, were compelled to purchase low
yielding government stock to finance the government deficit.  These
constraints, along with the limited number of viable investment opportunities
brought to the attention of the banks, served to hinder the flow of financial
resources for investment. The banks have tended to lend short term, mainly
to their established customers, a high proportion of whom are in the trade
and service sectors. In 1986, it is estimated that only around 152 of
commercial bank loans outstanding (including those of development finance
institutions) were of maturities over three years, and nearly 502 of al
loans were to trade and services (Annex 2-4).
3.   Liquidity Management
28.       In addition to quarterly credit guidelines, the BOG uses two kinds
of minimum reserve ratios to control the expansion of credit. The first is a
minimum cash reserve ratio that relates a bank's cash and deposit holdings
with the BOG to its total deposits. And the second is a minimum liquidity
reserve ratio that relates a bank's secondary holdings (approved bills and
securities) to its total deposits. For many years the minimum reserve ratios
were not effective in controlling liquidity because bank financing of the
government deficit was far in excess of what could be absorbed at the
prevailing reserve ratios. But with the rapid depreciation of the currency,
the excess liquidity was soon mopped up and the BOG reduced its minimum cash
reserve ratio gradually until it reached 1OZ on demand deposits and 52 on
time and savings deposits in October 1986.
29.       In late 1987, however, a situation of excess liquidity once again
emerged. The banking system appears unable to absorb the net repayments by
the Government, especially since it cannot rechannel these to the private



- 8 -
sector on account of the credit ceilings. As a result, some banks have been
turning depositors away, and private enterprises with surplus savings are
finding means of lending to deficit enterprises directly rather than going
through banking institutions. The 'crowding out' of private sector financial
savings was exacerbated by the substantial expansion of credit by the BOG to
the cocoa sector which has added liquidity to the system adversely affecting
as a result, the operations of the newly opened Discount House, and sending
interest rates at the BOG's recently introduced treasu'ry bill auction below
the minimum savings rate and the rediscount rate.
30.       The present situation of excess liquidity in the banking system is
coincidental with a shcrtage of liquidity in parts of the manufacturing
sector. The demand for credit in the manufacturing sector has risen sharply
as a result of increased import costs, lOOZ deposit requirements for the
foreign exchange auction, and improvements in the efficiency of tax
collection. But the banking system has been unable to intermediate between
the resource-rich cocoa and mining sectors and the resource-hungry manufac-
turing and foodcr ps sectors. The distortions created by the credit ceilings
are beginning to make it difficult for the Central Bank to manage liquidity,
and this points to the need to develop as rapidly as possible indirect
instruments for monetary management that are capable of absorbing or
injecting liquidity as and when required. But the issue also goes beyond one
of just introducing new instruments. It means that the financial sector
needs to develop a secondary market in government backed securities and
commercial paper, and use it to manage its twin objectives of liquidity and
profitability. The Government is putting together a plan to address these
issues, including the sale to commercial banks of cocoa bills, a better
monitoring of banks' cash reserves and the timely issuance by BOG of
short-term paper.
4.   Money Market
31.       The potential usefulness of a money market in Ghana has been
recognized for some time, and one discount house, Consolidated Discount House
Ltd (CDH), which is owned by banks and insurance companies, has recently
become operational. After opening for business on 30th November 1987,
however, and an initial flurry of activity during the first days, few
transactions have subsequently been done by CDH. This disappointing
performance can be traced to a combination of inadequate detailed agreement
between CDH and BOG on an operational framework, unrealistic expectations by
banks as to the absorptive capacity of CDH, and imprecise definition of the
scope of CDH by all parties. The Ghanaian authorities are now in the process
of taking the requisite steps to facilitate the development of a smoothly
functioning money market. These will include consideration and resolution of
the following defects and shortcomings: (i) prudential limits on the
composition of CDH assets; (ii) liquidity status of money-at-call with CDH;
(iii) CDH's method of computing interest; (iv) access by CDH to rediscount
facility with BOG, or to any assured supply of treasury bills; (v) status of
call money deposits by banks with CDH; (vi) the effect of the banking licence
issued to CDH; (vii) continued access of banks to BOG for accommodation of
their liquidity; (viii) definition of bankers' acceptances eligible for
rediscount at BOG; (ix) BOG's policies for the sale to non-banks of bankers'
acceptances; (x) further to (iv) basis on which CDH and BOG deal in
longer-dated Government stock.



-9-
5.   Capital Market
32.       Ever since the early 1960's, when a comprehensive companies code
was enacted, Ghana has been considering the introduction of a formal Stock
Exchange. The clear benefits of such an institution, in Ghana, as elsewhere,
would be to enable corporate issuers to access long-term funds provided by
investors, both individual and institutional, and to provide liquidity in the
secondary market for shares and bonds. The Accra Securities Market Ltd (ASM)
has been formed for some years, but not activated. Ghana, however, already
has public issues of companies. Some eighteen companies, owned primarily by
foreign shareholders, were converted into public companies during 1375 and
1976, under the operation of the Investment Policy Implementation Decree.
The only other issues since 1976 have been one issue involving the
capitalization of reserves, and a failed rights issue, which was less than
252 subscribed. It may be generally observed that these public companies,
some of which are among the largest enterprises in the land, either have not
needed to raise capital from the public during the last decade or have
determined that it would not be available at a reasonable cost. It may be
argued that the program of divestiture of state-owned enterprises could best
be accomplished through a Stock Exchange. Indeed, if such an exchange
existed, it would be a natural conduit for such transactions. However, it is
unlikely to be satisfactory for either the Government, or the future
development of the capital market in Ghana, for an Exchange to be created
based mainly on such a short-term flow of captive business. Furthermore,
divestiture sales are not primary issues, since no funds are raised for the
subject company, unless the sales are combined wich a new issue of stock by
the company.
33.       One practical way to test the proposition that both supply and
demand in primary market will be available in quantity, is to provide some
incentives to private placement of equities, and to monitor the resultant
flow of investment. Incentives to corporate issues could range from
elimination or reduction of the 2Z stamp duty on capital increases, to a
permanent or temporary reduction of the corporate tax rate for companies
attracting new capital. Investors might be encouraged to make equity
investments by exoneration from capital gains taxation, by equalization of
the tax treatment of bank interest and dividends, or by the ability to make
investments up to a stated maximum limit out of pre-tax income. It seems that
dividends in Ghana were treated as tax-free for some years in the 1970s. In
addition to the above consideration, there are a number of other concerns
that need to be addressed. These include: (i) the review of auditing
standards applicable to public companies should be accelerated, such that any
recommendation for improvement may be implemented well in advance of any
Stock Exchange activity; (ii) the institutional and regulatory framework for
any Exchange must be devised and erected before any attempt is made to
activate the ASM; (iii) the possibil.ty of forming a vehicle for provision of
venture or development capital could be considered, which would hold the
prospect of acting as a nursery for companies which could, on maturity, be
sold to public investors through the Exchange; and (iv) the pricing policy
and mechanism for new issues on the ASM should, ideally, be left in the hands
of professional advisers to corporate issuers. The Technical sub-committee
fcr the Establishment of a Stock Exchange, reported in 1986 that a Capital
Issues Commission, under the auspices of the Ghana Investments Centre (GIC),
should fulfil this pricing function. Although such a proposal seeks to
utilize the skills which are available within GIC to provide an objective



-  10  -
framework for price-setting, it may be seen by the manager and shareholders
of potential issues as unduly prejudicial to their interests.
6.   Regulatory Policies
34.       Regulation is intended to provide monetary stability, protection of
depositors, and an efficient and competitive financial system. In Ghana,
banking activities are governed by the Banking Act of 1970, the Banking
Regulations of 1973, the Bank of Ghana Act of 1963, and amendments or decrees
issued in due course since the enactment of the foregoing legislation.
35.       Several serious omissions in this body of legislation, together
with weak bank supervision, have led to the concentration of risk in the
portfolios of banks, inadequate capital and reserves, inflated profits, and
unrecognized loan losses.
36.       The BOG has never specified the limits for unsecured credit as a
limit of each bank's paid-up capital and reserves, and has never specified
the percentage, thus banks have frequently extended credit to single
borrowers far in excess of the bank's capital funds in clear violation of
prudent banking practice, and with the result that these borrowers, in
effect, control the future of the banks.
37.       Because banks in Ghana operate without the benefit of uniform
accounting standards, their treatment of interest on non-performing assets
varies. In many cases, banks continue to count interest on assets as income
even when collection of such assets is in doubt. This implies necessarily
that a uniform definition of non-performing assets must be established. The
lack of uniform accounting standards has als,- led to inadequate loan loss
provisions and reserves. Currently, most banks make no attempt to accurately
quantify the risk which exists in their asset portfolios and to provide
adequate loan loss reserves. Diagnostic studies of the banks clearly indicate
the need for banks to better assess the quality of their assets. Mandatory
minimum provisions should be established in order to ensure that management
is not overly optimistic over the eventual collection or recovery of the
asset when determining an adequate level of loan loss reserves.
38.       The problem of assessing asset quality properly carries over to the
issue of capital adequacy. Not only are banks failing to recognize loan
losses and set aside adequate reserves, but their assets have grown at rates
far surpassing the growth in capital funds through retained earnings. As a
result, the proportion of capital to assets has become insufficient to
prudently support the banks' ongoing operations. In fact, if banks were
required to recognize the loan losses currently existing in their portfolios,
many would be technically insolvent. Unfortunately, existing banking
legislation does not mandate a minimum capital adequacy ratio which would
ensure that banks grow at a controlled pace with due attention to asset
quality and off-balance sheet risk.
39.       Other weaknesses or omissions exist in the current body of banking
legislation. Development finance institutions which are engaged in
commercial banking activities are not su.bject to the same requirements
regarding the transfer of retained profits to the reserve fund. Monetary
penalties cited within the legislation have not been revised upward to
reflect the effects of inflation and, therefore, no longer serve to dis-
courage illegal or imprudent acts. Prudential reports and audit reports



- 11 -
submitted to the Bank of Ghana are inadequate as sources of information with
which to conduct off-site or early warning analysis. And a mechanism such
as a credit clearing house does not exist to provide for the sharing of
credit information between banks.
7.   Banking Supervision
40.       Supervision of the banking system is the responsibility of the Bank
of Ghana, a functior. it provides through its Bank Examination Department. All
banks, including rural banks, commercial banks, development finance
institutions, and the discount house, come under its purview. Supervision is
carried out through on-site examinations and off-site analysis of prudential
returns. However, serious shortcomings exist in the Examination Department's
u&pability to perform these tasks.
41.       On-site examinations of each bank are required annually, yet only
three banks were examined in the last year using comprehensive examination
procedures. Furthermore, the three largest banks have never been examined in
depth. Of the approximately 110 rural banks, only about 40 were examined.
Implementation and enforcement of banking laws and regulations is ineffective
and supervision weak. The existing examination methodology focuses primarily
on a "snapshot, of the bank's condition at a given point of time rather than
on strengthening the bank's management systems which are the first line of
defense against imprudent and/or illegal banking practice. Besides,
prudential reporting is limited to a handful of reports, and notwithstanding
the lack of suitable prudential reports, no capability has been developed for
conducting offsite analysis even if the proper reporting framework was in
place.
42.       There are several seasons for the Bank Examination Department's
deficiency in meeting its responsibilities. The present staffing of 45
persons includes approximately 30 examiners; however, only five are judged by
the Head of the Department as being capable to lead examination teams. Of
the thirty individuals, only one has more than ten years experience, and only
four have experience of between five and ten years. Low civil service salary
levels make it difficult for the Bank Examination Department to attract and
retain qualified examiners. And training is inadequate given the very
specialized skills nieeded by the bank supervision staff. If the Bank
Examination Department is to meet its responsibilities, the number of staff
must be increased, salaries improved, and both skills and experience levels
strengthened.
III. AN AGENDA FOR ACTION
43.       The development of an efficient and broadly-based financial sector
is crucial for the continued adjustment effort of the Ghanaian economy. The
Government has prepared a Statement of Financial Policy which details the
policy framework for reforms to be undertaken (including an Implementation
Schedule) which the proposed credit would support (Annex 4). The main
objectives of this program are outlined below.



-  12  -
A.   Measures to Improve Deposit Mobilization and to increase the
Efficiency of Credit Allocation
1.   Deposit Mobilization
44.       A key factor in improving the deposit mobilization potential of the
financial sector is to restore public confidence in the banking system. The
Government is, therefore, considering the repeal of the Banking and Financial
Institutions (Request for Information) Decree, with a view to stipulating
that all disclosures of information from banks, including cases where
criminal cases are pending in courts of law, will be in conformity with the
Banking Act of 1970. In addition, the Government intends to amend the
Banking Act of 1970 to incorporate provisions requiring the maintenance of
secrecy in respect of customers' accounts by the banks' Directors, officers,
staff, and auditors. The banks would also mount a public relations campaign
to educate the public on the new laws and their implications for individual
or corporate depositors, and thereby lessen any lingering fears about the
maintenance of secrecy of bank accounts. Finally, measures to enhance the
soundness of banking institutions under the proposed project will contribute
towards the restoration of public confidence in the banking system.
Consideration may be given to establishing a Deposit Insurance Scheme once
the financial distress of banks has been alleviated and Government's
shareholding in banks has been substantially reduced.
45.       In recognition of the importance of improving customer services and
as a means of mobilizing deposits, the banks will be permitted under a new
regulation to vary the working hours and business days of their branches.
This will allow them to respond flexibly to customer needs in different
areas. In addition, the BOG intends to review the system for collecting and
clearing local and outstation checks, with the principal aim of determining
the reforms necessary to reduce substantially the extensive time and high
costs involved in the present system.
46.       The increased flexibility in the Government's policy towards
interest rates has led to a discernible increase in the willingness of the
public to hold deposits with the banking system. In addition, the BOG will
agree with IDA on a timetable for decontrolling banking charges prior to
February 1989.
2.   Efficiency of Credit Allocation
47.       The BOG has already taken the commendable step of liberalizing
lending rates of banks. To follow up on this step, it issued on February 29,
1988 new credit guidelines abolishing all sectoral ceilings while maintaining
the requirement that banks lend a minimum of 20? of their total lending to
agriculture. BOG interprets "agriculture lending" in the broad sense to
include, beyond primary agriculture, the processing, warehousing, and
marketing of agricultural produce as well as forestry activities. Prior to
December 1989, the BOG will review the results of the recent liberalization
of the credit policy and determine in consultation with IDA whether the floor
on agricultural lending should be maintained. To ensure that refinancing
facilities, special lines of credit, and other special credit schemes are
used only in exceptional cirWumstances, the BOG will prepare criteria and
mechanisms for their use. These criteria should ensure that such credits are
only employed when it is clearly established that there is a market failure
preventing funds from reaching disadvantaged or priority groups, and that the



-  13  -
most appropriate way of dealing with the market failure is through a special
line of credit. If and when such credit schemes are used, they will be kept
to a minimum and their costs will be budgeted and made transparent. Finally,
using similar criteria, the BOG will review the Credit Guarantee Scheme and
in consultation with IDA, determine whether the scheme should be wound up.
In the meantime, the scheme will not issue any further guarantees.
3.   Efficiency of Banking Operations
48.       To encourage banks to improve the efficiency of their operations
yet further, the BOG will uneertake a review of their operating practices
with the aim of preparing and circulating semi-annually a set of average
efficiency indicators so that banks can compare their performance vis-a-vis
other banks. In addition, to reduce the costs of banking operations that
arise from low denomination currency note, the BOG will issue notes of higher
denomination. Recently the BOG brought out the 500 cedi note, and a 1000 cedi
note has been approved by the Board and the Government. The BOG will keep
this policy under constant review and issue notes of yet higher denomination
when and as necessary. Besides, the need for introducing more modern banking
methods and technology, upgrading the skills of the existing personnel, and
recruiting and developing of new talent, would necessitate training programs,
which given their magnitude, would be better undertaken centrally to serve
the ertire banking industry.  Technical assistance to that end would be
financei under the project (Annex 3-;).
4.   Money Market
49.             The emerging money market in Ghana, the principal
institutional member of which is the newly established CDH, is laboring under
the difficulty of an inadequately defined operational and regulatory
environment (para 31). The indicative list of problem areas for the money
market, and CDH in particular, covers a wide spectrum. These problems would
be addressed through the preparation and subsequent implementation of a
priority reinforcement plan, to be implemented prior to February 1989,
including the drafting of a Statement of Operating Policy for CDH to be
endorsed by BOG and developed after careful consultation with banks, BOG and
CDH management and supported by technical assistance financed under the
proposed credit (Annex 3-1). Speed would be an important factor to avoid
loss of impetus in CDH's development. Meanwhile, pending the implementation
of the reinforcement plan, CDH's activities would be expected to be on a
modest scale and limited principally to facilitating overnight transactions
between banks and channelling of funds between the banking sector and BOG.
5.   Capital Market
50.       The concept of establishing a capital market in Accra, probably
through Accra Securities Market Ltd (ASM), has been fostered for some time by
the notion that a strong demand exists for such services from potential
investors and corporate issuers. Quantification of these factors will always
be imprecise, but it is necessary for the foundation of a capital market to
be as secure as possible. Accordingly, an assessment of the likely demand
for, and supply of, quoted securities should be made covering the primary and
secondary markets. This assessment would be undertaken in a study financed
under the proposed credit (Annex 3-2) which in addition would cover the
following areas (i) design of a package of suitable incentives to attract
both investors and potential corporate issuers; (ii) design of an adequate



- 14 -
regulatory and institutional framework to generate users confidence and
prevent financial abuse; and (iii) assessment of the suitability of
establishing a specialized financial institution providing venture and
development capital. In the meantime, and pending the review of the study's
outcome, no substantial action should be undertaken leading to major
institutional changes in capital-market related institutions (ASM, National
Trust Holding Company, the proposed Capital Issue Commission).
B.   Amending Laws and Regulations
51.       In order to strengthen the hand of banking supervisors, the
existing body of laws, rules, and regulations will be amended or revised to
address the serious shortcomings described earlier. To facilitate this, a
committee has been established at the behest of the government to review
existing legislation, draft the changes necessary to improve the regulatory
framework, and establish prudent standards to ensure the viability of the
banking system (even if this means that many banks may not immediately
conform to the new legal requirements). To assist in the revision of this
body of laws, rulings, and regulations, a technical assistance component is
included in Annex 3-3 to provide for the employment of a banking law expert
on an ad hoc basis.
52.       GOG has agreed to a number of critical changes or additions to the
legal framework. Risk exposure limits as a percentage of capital will be set
on a bank's exposure to a single customer or related group. These limits
will encompass secured as well as unsecured credit to (and investments in) a
single party or group of related parties. To the extent that credits to
existing customers exceed the new limits, the banks should establish plans to
reduce them to conforming levels within a reasonable time frame.
Modifications to existing legislation will also place stricter limits on
credit extended to directors' interests by subjecting them to similar
exposure limits based upon the bank's capital.
53.       A minimum capital-adequacy ratio will be established.  This ratio
should take into account the riskiness of the bank's assets as well as its
off-balance-sheet risk. Banking supervisors will have the ability to mandate
even greater capital when, in their opinion, conditions warrant. Banks which
do not meet the minimum guideline will not be allowed to pay dividends.
Following implementation of new minimum capital guidelines, banks should
prepare, and update on an annual basis, a capital plan for maintaining or
restoring capital to an adequate level. In addition, the amount of paid-up
capital to establish a new bank will be adjusted upwards to reflect the
effects of inflation. The BOG will be delegated authority to revise this
minimum amount as warranted. Development finance institutions which are
engaged in cornmercial banking will also meet minimum capital adequacy
requiremen-.s, although such limits may differ from commercial banks because
of the added risk of the development portfolio. Development finance
institutions will also be required to transfer a portion of their net profits
to reserves in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Banking Act for
commercial banks.
54.       Regulations will specify the format and content of audit reports
and the minimum scope of audit reviews. Uniform accounting and auditing
standards and prudential reporting requirements will also be established.
The accounting standards will include guidelines for loan portfolio review
and classification, the treatment of interest on non-performing loans, and



- 15 -
provisioning for potential loan losses. To assist in eRcablishing these
standards and reporting requirements, the project would finance the services
of an international accounting firm.
55.       The establishment of a credit clearing house is a complex
undertaking which will require a technical advisor to consult on its
establishment, operation, and legal framework. A technical asaistance
program is proposed in Annex 3-4.
56.       Lastly, monetary penalties for violations of laws and regulations
will be strengthened and periodically revised to serve as a deterrent to
illegal and imprudent acts. Initially, the penalties contained in the
existing Banking Act are to be increased by a factor of 100 and revised
thereafter as needed.
C.   Banking Supervision
57.       To enable the BOG to effectively carry out its role of monitoring
and preserving the health of the financial system, the skills, training,
staffing, and methodology of its Bank Examination Department must be
strengthened. To this end, a number of steps are being taken. First, twc
banking supervision experts are in the process of being recruited to serve as
technical advisors to the BOG. The proposed technical assistance program is
outlined in Annex 3-3 including the terms of reference of the banking
supervision experts, whose assistance is critical to the success of
strengthening the supervision function. Besides, increases in compensation
are critical to attract and retain high quality individuals in the Bank
Examination Department.   Therefore, the BOG will, in line with the overall
review of compensation for civil servants as part of the structural
adjustment program, reassess staffing and compensation in conjunction with
the possible reorganization of the department.
58.       Prudential supervision of banks is also provided in the forms of
external audits and financial disclosure. Audits of banks conducted in the
past failed to disclose the extent of problems subsequently identified in the
diagnostic studies. It is apparent that not only auditing standards must be
strengthened but training of auditors must receive high priority. In this
regard, the Institute of Chartered Accountants has an important role to play
in providing leadership to the auditing profession in Ghana. A technical
assistance program is envisaged for the training of auditors (Annex 3-5).
The program also includes a component for a consultant to assist in
developing auditing standards.
59.       Financial disclosure can help to instill discipline.  However,
given the present state of the banking system generally, full financial
disclosure is considered inappropriate at this time. Nonetheless, certain
information, such as deposit account statements and schedules of charges,
should be made available to the public. In this regard, the Banking Law
Committee will establish standard patterns of information disclosure to the
public.
D.   Bank Restructuring
60.       As stated in para 19, a large number of Ghanaian banks are facing
severe financial difficulties, which are threatening their liquidity and
solvency and thereby the stability of the financial system overall. This is



-  16  -
particularly the case of the three development banks, but to a lesser extent
also of some major commercial banks. This situation was attributable to
inappropriate sector policies and regulations affecting the operation of the
banks in the past, inadequate banking supervision by the authorities,
internal weaknesses on the part of the banks themselves (in particular
deficient management team and poor procedures and controls), as well as the
massive devaluations in recent years which have considerably increased the
corporate sector's indebtedness and reduced its capacity to service its debt
to the banks, exacerbating the latter's portfolio arrears. The Goverrnment
realizes the critical need to restore the financial health and operational
capacity of the distressed Gharsian banks. Comprehensive diagnostic studies
by international auditing firms have been carried out for the three
development banks and six major commercial banks to determine accurately
their financial and operational condition and the appropriate remedial
measures required. These audit reports constitute the first step in a review
process which would determine for each bank its prospects for future viable
operation and restructuring requirements. External audits under the aegis of
BOG will be repeated for the coming two to three years until such a time as
BOG's examination department has been satisfactorily strengthened.
61.       The basic principles that are to govern the restructuring of the
banks, have been agreed between the Government and IDA and are spelled out in
the Statement of Financial Policy (Annex 4--paras 7 to 9), along with
specific targets for restructuring plans (Implementation Schedule Section II
- 4 to 7). The systematic review of audit reports by the Ghanaian
authorities and IDA, will provide a basis for deciding on a future course of
action (recapitalization/restructuring, merger, liquidation) for each bank.
The eventual decision to recapitalize an individual bank will be based on a
realistic assessment of this bank's prospects for viable operation within a
reformed banking system more liberalized and competitive and with much
reduced reliance on GOG/BOG funding and other concessional funding. This
will entail a three-phased process of which the first step would be the
preparation of detailed business projections for at leas.. a 5-year period
based on realistic assumptions of future operations. The iterative process
by which these projections will be undertaken would involve consideration of
fundamental issues such as sectoral specialization vs universal banking, the
options of mergers and liquidations, degree of appropriate state financial
support. Once satisfactory projections are obtained for an individual bank,
a specific restructuring plan will be prepared for it, stipulating the
arrangements (operational, financial, managerial, legal) for the bank's
future operation. Monitorable steps for the implementation of the
restructuring plan will be embodied in a performance contract to be signed
between the Government/BOG and the bank setting out the respective
obligations and commitments of each party. All restructuring plans for
individual banks will be sent to IDA for review and agreement prior to their
implementation.
62.       In addition to immediate safeguard measures to be taken as
necessary so as to arrest further financial deterioration (i.e.,
discontinuation/curtailment of new lending; concentration on loan recovery,
reduction in operating costs; reconciliation of accounts), specific
modalities will be worked out to settle the accumulated deficits involving an
appropriate mix of cash injections and non-cash adjustments, in particular
(i) rescheduling/conversion of external and GOG/BOG loans to banks; (ii)
transfer to the Government of the banks' portfolio of non-performing loans to
state-owned enterprises and/or those guaranteed by the Government. Beyond



-  17  -
internal measures at the level of each individual bank, arrangements for loan
recovery might include the transfer of the banks' non-performing loan
portfolio to a separate entity (collection agency, managed fund,
restructuring fund) or its sale at a discount.
63.       Financial requirements for restructuring Ghanaian banks (both for
resorbing the aggregate deficits of the whole banking system and for
recapitalization of selected banks) can only be roughly estimated at this
stage, pending the completion/analysis of their audits and the subsequent
decision-making process leading to their recapitalization/restructuring.
Initial estimates indicate that overall needs would approximate US$280
million. Of this amount about US$40 million could be met with the conversion
into quasi-equity of loans from GOG/BOG and external lenders to the banks
(principally the development banks) and US$20 million through the repurchase
by GOG of non-performing loans to state enterprises. To monitor the proper
implementation of the bank restructuring program, the Government is in the
process of establishing a Technical Committee, reporting to the Financial
Sector Adjustment Committee (para 77). Given the magnitude and complexity of
the exercise, the project would finance a bank restructuring adviser for a
period of 18 months, acting as special adviser to the Technical Committee, to
be recruited by September 1988 (Annex 3-7).
E.   Corporate RestructurinR
64.       As evidenced by the banks' audits available to date, a number of
Ghanaian enterprises, particularly thoe with foreign debts/or depending
largely on imported inputs, are in need of both physical and financial
restructuring, in the aftermath of recent niassive devaluations, high
inflation rates, and adjustment policies (trade liberalization, reduction in
effective protection). This situation warrants the consideration of a
nationwide program for corporate restructuring, the basic objective of which
would be to offer comprehensive financial packages linking future debt
repayments to the cash-generation capacity of individual firms, using such
instruments as debt/equity swaps, reschedulings of remaining debts over
longer maturities, interest capitalization, partial write-off of accumulated
penalty charges, and injection of fresh money for increased liquidity and new
fixed assets. Significant managerial and operational restructuring would
have to be considered as well. Restructuring will be selective and confined
to those enterprises temporarily in financial distress but with clear
medium-term prospects for profitable operation. The provision of technical
assistance and expert guidance to the banks and the enterprises will be
needed for the design as well as the implementation of restructuring
proposals. Although the responsibility for enterprise restructuring should
normally rest with the banks, the magnitude and complexity of the problem
appear to require putting in place, at the country level, an institutional
framework that would (a) generally oversee the implementation by the banking
system of the nationwide enterprise restructuring program; (b) refinance a
part of the restructuring credits/investments by the banks; and (c) provide
the technical assistance required.  The Government has requested IDA's
assistance in initiating a study toward the design and establishment of a
corporate restructuring program along the foregoing lines (Annex 3-8).
F.   Rural Finance
65.       The Government places a high priority on J.mproving the efficiency
of rural .inancial mechanisms to support economic, particularl, agricultural,



- 18 -
activity in rural areas. Financial intermediation in rural areas requires,
however, special treatment because of the infoirmal nature of the financial
intermediaries that operate there, and the reluctance of formal financial
institutions to undertake high-cost high-risk intermediation activities in
rural areas. The Government is therefore conducting two studies of the rural
financial subsector with the support of IDA. The first will be a
comprehensive study of the entire range of rural financial intermediation
required for the rural population. The second will focus on a diagnosis of a
ample of ruzal banks (ten to fifteen) to provide the basis for the BOG to
formulate a program of action vis-a-vis these banks.   These two studies
together will be used to design a sector specific action program, to be
supported by a forthcoming Rural Finance project, and which will be fully
consistent with the thrust of the present financial sector adjustv.ent
program.
G. Foreign Exchanae Risk
66.       Exchange losses resulting from loans denominated in foreign
currency account for a large share of the financial sector deficit (about
US$100 million). Although exchange rate fluctuations comparable to those
observed between 1983 and 1986 are less likely in the future as long as the
Government pursues ts liberalized trade and exchange rate policies combined
with monetary and fiscal discipline, it would be advisable to consider a
mechanism by which borrowers could be adequately protected against unexpected
future variations of the exchange rate. To that end the BOG intends to study
and develop a model to forecast the foreign exchange risk and determine an
appropriate level for the fee that borrowers would have to pay to BOG in
exchange for exchange risk p.otection. This study will be financed under
the proposed project. Based on the study's findings, it is envisaged that a
fund managed by BOG would be established to cover actual losses as needed.
Seed funding would be provided by the Government.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Origin and Objectives
67.       The proposed credit has originated from the Bank's sector work
initiated in Ghana since 1985. Critical to continued progress in the
structural adjustment effort is the need to develop a well functioning and
broadly based financial sector. To that end, the Government has designed a
comprehensive and far-reaching action program with the following main
objectives: (i) to enhance the soundness of banking institutions through
reforms of the regulatory framework and the restructuring of distressed
financial institutions; (ii) to improve deposit mobilization and efficiency
in credit allocation; (iii) to develop money and capital markets.
Significant steps have already been taken towards the implementation of this
program: interest rates have been liberalized in September 1987 and February
1988, external audits undertaken for the nine major banks, two specialists in
banking supervision have been recruited by the BOG and a study on improved
standards for banks' accounting and reporting has been initiatei recently.
The credit would support the initial action program of policy and
institutional reforms as set out in the Government's Statement of Financial
Policy (Annex 4).



- 19 -
B.   The Macroeconomic Context
68.       The financial sector adjustment program is a key element of the
Government's economy-wide structural adjustment program (see paras 5-11).
The total external financing required to support the structural adjustment
program during the period 1988-90 is projected to be about US$2,200 million
(see Annex 1-3). The proposed financial sector adjustment credit of US$100
million will meet 4.5 percent of this external financing requirement. A
large part of the remainder (US$1,300 million) has been identified from
existing and expected commitments from bilateral and multilateral donors.
The residual financing gap of about US$800 million is expected to be met by
the IMP enhanced structural adjustment facility, IDA's contribution to the
African debt initiative, ard additional financing from cofinanciers.
C.   Description
69.       The IDA credit of US$100.0 million will be made to the Government
at standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity. The credit would have a sector
reform component and a technical assistance component.
1.   Sector Reform Component
70.       This component of TS$95 million equivalent would be in support of
ongoing and new policy and institutional reforms undertaken in the financial
sector over the 1987-1990 period, as outlined by the Government in the
StAtement of Financial Policy, the major objectives of which are to:
(a) enhance the soundness of banking institutions through (i) a review
of the legal framework, (ii) improved modalities for bank
supervision, (iii) strengthening the training of bankers, (iv)
strengthening the accounting and auditing professions, (v) support
to the financial restructuring of the corporate sector.
(b) restructure financially distressed banks on the basis of full
external audits, followed by a thorough review of each bank's
prospects for future viability within a liberalized and competitive
system (with much reduced reliance on GOG funding and other
financial privileges), and restructuring needs therefor. The
decision on a future course of action for each bank
(recapitalization/restructuring, merger, liquidation), on the basis
of this review, would lead to the preparation of a specific
restructuring plan, the implementation of which would be monitored
by a performance contract.
(c) improve resource mobilization and allocation through (i) measures
aimed at further restoring public confidence in banks. (ii)
liberalization of interest rates, bank charges and commissions and
sectoral credit ceilings, (iii) developrient of money and capital
markets through the rationalization and strengthening of the CDH
and the introduction of policies and institutional vehicles for
capital market development.
2.   Technical Assistance Component
71.       This component of US$5 million will finance (i) a comprehensive
program of technical assistance to the BOG (Annex 3-3 and 3-4), (ii) training



- 20 -
programs for the Institute of Chartered Accountants (Annex 3-5), (iii)
training programs aimed at improving the profession of bankers (Annex 3-6),
advisory services to the Technical Committee for Banking Restructuring (Annex
3-7), (iv) technical assistance to CDH (Annex 3-1), (v) an assessment of the
potential for capital market development and rela,ed studies (Annex 3-2),
(vi) a study to assess the need for corporate restructuring and the
initiation of a pilot program (Annex 3-8), and (vii) a study on exchange risk
protection (par& 66). Costs of technical assistance and studies are
summarized in Annex 3-9.
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
1.   Sector Reform Component
72.       Procedures for procurement and disbursement would be largely
patterned upon those applied for the recently approved SAC to Ghana. The
proceeds of the proposed sector reform component (US$95 million equivalent)
would be used exclusively for the financing of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible imports through the foreign exchange auction in the BOG.
Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of the funds
while ensuring efficiency and economy. Except for a few exclusions such as
luxury and defense items, any imports would be eligible for financing. Not
more than SDR 20 million equivalent of the proceeds of the credit would be
used for petroleum imports.  In order to speed up disbursements, imports
below US$2 million by private entities would be procured in accordance with
their normal procedures; the Government and SOE procedures for imports below
US$2 million equivalent would be acceptable to the Association. Imports
worth US$2 million or more would be subject to international competit ve
bidding according to Bank Guidelines, using current standard bidding
documents, which are acceptable to IDA. International suppliers are well
represented in Ghana; this, together with the ongoing auction s'stem and
trade liberalization, should ensure an internationally competitive market in
which importers can be relied on to procure their goods and services fiom the
least costly and most reliable sources. 100 percent of the costs of
technical assistance and studies would be financed under the project.
73.       To facilitate procurement and disbursement, multiple special
accounts (up to six), would be established in U.S. dollars at commercial
banks, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Initially,
US$18 million of the IDA credit will be deposited in these special accounts.
Applications for replenishment of the special accounts will be submitted
monthly, or when withdrawals equal one-sixth of the amount advanced.
Applications will be fully documented with respect to payments against
contracts of more than US$500,000 equivalernt. Reimbursements for payments
against smaller contracts will be mcde on the basis of statements of
expenditure certified by the BOG with supporting documents retained for
review by visiting missions. Annual audit reports will include a separate
audit of amounts withdrawn on the basis of statements of expenditure and on
special accounts.
74.       The proceeds of the proposed sector reform component would be
disbursed in three tranches as follows:
(a) a first tranche of US$45 million equivalent (SDR 32.5 million)
would becL'me available immediately upon e&fectiveness (by August
1988);



- 21 -
(b) a second tranche of US$30 million (SDR 21.6 million) would be made
available following a review of performance, six months after
effectiveness, that would determine that the reform program is
being satisfactorily implemented and in particular that the
conditions stipulated in para 77.2 have been fulfilled.
(c)  a third tranche of US$20 million (SDR 18.0 million) would be made
available following a review of performance, nine months after
second tranche release that would determine that the conditions
stipulated in para 77.3 have been fulfilled.
Conditions for tranche release are detailed below under section E
"Monitorable Actions'.
75.       Cofinancing of US$140 million is being sought under this project.
The Swiss Government has indicated at negotiations its intention to
contribute to the cofinancing of this project in an amount of Swiss Francs 15
million while AfDB and the Japanese Government (OECF) are expected to
contribute in amounts of US$50 million and US$55 to 70 million equivalent,
respectively. The British and Canadian Governments have also been
approached. On the basis of the reactions received so far from these
sources, it is expected that the target amount for cofinancing will be
achieved. It is intended, to the extent possible, that these cofinancing
funds be tranched in such a way as to ensure balanced tranche disbursements.
2.   Technical Assistance Component
76.       Consultancy services for the various technical assistance
subcomponents will be obtained as per the Bank's Guidelines for Recruitment
of Consultants. Procurement of other items such as vehicle and office
equipment will be as per the procurement procedure described in para 71
above. Disbursement under the technical assistance component will not be
subject to the tranche release conditions. Statement of expenditures would
be used for expenditures not exceeding US$50,000. A special account of
US$1,000,000 representing about four month's expenditures would be
established at a commercial bank to expedite disbursements. Audit
requirements would be similar to those of the sector reform component (paras
72-73).
E.   Monitorable Actions
77.       The Statement of Financial Policy (Annex 4) describes the specific
reform measures that have been or will be taken during this phase of the
adjustment program. These measures are summarized in the Implementation
Schedule attached to this Statement. A high level Financial Sector
Adjustment Committee chaireA by the Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning, with the Governor of the BOG as Vice-Chairman, and reporting to the
Chairman, Committee of Secretaries will oversee the implementation of the
program. Conditions for tranche releases are listed below.
1.   Conditions for Effectiveness
(i)  agreement with IDA on amendments to the Banking Act and other
relevant regulations covering prudential rules relating in
particular to capital adequacy of banks, reserve requirements,
exposure limits, penalties and reporting requirements to the BOG.



- 22 -
(ii) Agreement with IDA on a proposal setting out uniform auditing and
accounting standards for banks.
2.   Conditions for Second Tranche Release
(i)  Satisfactory implementation of amendments to the Banking Act and
other regulations referred to under para 77.. (i).
(ii)  Satisfactory monitoring by BOG of compliance by banks with
uniform accourting and auditing standards.
(iii)  Agreement with IDA on a timetable for a phased decontrol of
banking charges.
(iv)  Enactment of the amended Social Security Decree.
(v)  Receipt of a Government Statement satisfactory to IDA
specifying the modalities for the restructuring of banks and in
particular (i) the restructuring/conversion of loans and deposits
extended to banks by GOG/BOG and external lenders; (ii) measures
for dealing with banks' portfolio of non-performing loans; and
(iii) additional measures for dealing with non-performing loans to
State Enterprises.
(vi)  Agreement with IDA and implementation of a specific proposal for
the reduction by at least 50 of doubtful loans and off-balance
sheet items in the aggregate portfolio of banks.
(vii) Agreement with IDA on restructuring plans for banks accounting for
at least 50 of commercial banks' assets and 50X of development
banks' assets.
(viii)  Preparation and implementation of an action program for the
strengthening of CDH.
(ix)  Completion of a study on the potential for capital market
development and related requirements.
(x)  Completion of a study on exchange risk protection.
3.   Conditions for Third Tranche Release
(i)  Review of the sectoral credit floor for agriculture in
consultation with IDA and implementation of the resulting
agreement.
(ii)  Satisfactory implementation of the plan for the reduction of
non-performing loans and off balance-sheet items in the portfolio
of banks and of the banking restructuring plans agreed upon under
paras 77.2 (vi) and (vii).
(iii) Agreement on a program for the residual portfolio of
non-performing loans and off-balance sheet items and on
restructuring plans for the remaining commercial and development
banks.



- 23 -
(iv)   Satisfactory implementation of the recommendations of the study
on the capital market (para 77.2 (ix)).
(v)   Establishment of the Credit Clearing House.
F.   Justification and Risks
1.   Justification
78.       An efficient, broadly based financial sector, with an effective
banking system at its core, is necessary to provide the support for the
continued structural adjustment effort. Ghana does not yet have this. The
formal financial system is at an early stage of development and has been
handicapped by significant institutional weaknesses, limited mobilization of
financial resources and deficiencies in credit al'location, all of which have
constrained the supply of credit to the productive sectors. The initial
action program seeks to address these handicaps. It aims to strengthen the
financial institutions, expand the scope of the formal financial system and
improve the efficiency of financial intermediation in Ghana. Emphasis is
placed on priority policy and institutional reforms necessary to overcome the
key constraints or imperfections in the financial system which are hindering
the flow of funds to the efficient productive sectors, thus limiting
investment and production responses to the ongoing adjustments of trade and
incentive policies. Increased efficiency of the financial sector will thus
enhance growth, both by increasing savings and by channelling them to higher
yielding investments. The enhanced soundness of the banking institutions,
which will be pursued through their restructuring, and training programs for
banLks' employees, together with the proposed amendments to the Banking law
and other relevant regulations, and the improvement in the supervision and
surveillance of the banking system by the BOG will increase confidence in the
banking system, thus inducing its further growth. The credit will also
address the development of the money market and capital market, which
together with an initial program aiming at restructuring the corporate sector
should contribute both to a broadening of the financial system and stimulate
private investment. In addition, the development of the profession of
accounting and auditing, and improved accounting systems will in the long-run
improve the Government's budgetary control, improve monitoring of state
enterprises performance and tax collection. In the private sector, efforts
at productivity improvement and restructuring will be facilitated.
2.   Risks
79.       The main risk relates to the inherent complexity of undertaking a
sector-wide restructuring of the banking system which requires not only the
strong commitment of the Ghanaian authorities but also the full cooperation
of the banks' management. Other risks include the timely and adequate
availability of resources, and the strain the project will place on the
country's implementation capabilities. These risks are, however, mitigated
by (a) the Government's commitment to undertake banking restructuring on a
sound basis, in accordance with principles formulated in consultation with
IDA, and to seek IDA's agreement on individual restructuring plans prior tn
their implementation; (b) the tranching of the credit, which would further
ensure satisfactory progress in the implementation of the sector reform
program overall, and of banking restructuring in particular; and (c) finally,
the sector reforms contained in the Action Program, in particular the recent
liberalization of interest rates and the proposed improvement of the



- 24 -
regulatory framework and strengthening of Central Bank supervisory functions,
are expected to go a long way in ensuring the competitiveness, efficiency,
and soundness of the banking system in the future.
V.   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
80.       Until March 1983, when lending was resumed after an 18-month
hiatus, the Bank Group's assistance to Ghana was oriented towards projects
with a strong emphasis on export promotion and rehabilitation of basic
infrastructure. But the acuteness of the economic crisis of the past several
years and the magnitude of structural distortions led the Government to
develop a program of far-reaching economic reform which it announced in April
1983. This resulted in a major shift in the Bank's strategy. The main
elements of this strategy are:
(a)  to assist the Government, through the Bank's economic and sector
work, supported where appropriate through technical assistance and
program lending, to improve incentives for production, to increase
the efficiency of economic management, and to restore in the medium
term a sound financial basis for growth;
(b) to promote the long-term growth and development of the economy by
underpinning structural adjustment lending with infrastructure
rehabilitation and sector adjustment operations within a framework
of apprapriate sectoral policies, the latter encompassing industry
and education; and
(c) to contribute to improved aid effectiveness in Ghana by acting as
the focal point or aid coordination between donors and Ghana as
the Government strengthens its own planning and aid coordination
ability.
81.       Based on the strategy outlined above, the Bank is supporting
changes in incentive policies and improvements in economic management through
a series of program credits designed to provide critically needed imports,
particularly to export sectors and supporting economic infrastructure such as
transportation. The latest in this series of credits is the Structural
Adjustment Credit approved in April 1987. The Bank supplemented this with a
Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Project to support and strengtnen
the implementation agencies involved in the structural adjustment program.
All program credits taken together amount to 57.1 of total commitments. To
prepare for these credits, the Bank carried out a public expenditure review,
an agricultural sector review, an industrial sector study and an assessment
of issues and options in the energy sector, supervised cocoa sector studies
under an ongoing project, and acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed
study of the public enterprise sector. In addition, an economic memorandum
(Report No. 6635-GH, dated March 30, 1987) was prepared and used as a
background document at the last Consultative Group meeting in May 1987.
82.       Over the medium term, IDA lending will include a second structural
adjustment operation, sector operations, and complementary project lending.
Future project lending will concentrate on infrastructural rehabilitation,
and focus on sectoral strategies, a sound policy framework, investment
programs, public sector reforms, and institutional improvements.



-  25  -
VI. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
1.   Fund Relations w_th Ghana
83.        Since the inception of the ERP, the Fund's Executive Board has
approved three successive stand-by arrangements and two Compensatory
Financing Facility purchases by Ghana resulting in a total use of Fund credit
by end December 1986 of SDR 611 million or 299 percent of quota. The third
stand-by arrangement equivalent to SDR 81.8 million (40 percent of quota) was
approved on October 15, 1986. On November 6, 1987, the IMF Board approved
the request by GOG for a three-year extended arrangement (SDR 245.5 million)
and a three-year structural adjustment arrangement (SDR 129.9 million).
2.   Bank-Fund Collaboration
84.       Collaboration between the Bank and Fund staff has been good, both
in the field, where there have been parallel and joint missions, and where
the Bank's Resident Mission is in close touch with the Fund Resident
Representative, and at headquarters, where there are frequent consultations.
The staff of the two institutions have worked extremely closely with the
authorities in designing the structural adjustment program. The Fund staff
have focused in particular on exchange and trade policy, fiscal and domestic
resource mobilization issues, and external debt management, while the Bank
staff have focused on incentive policies including cocoa policy and trade
liberalization, and puElic sector reform, including public expenditure
policy, state enterprise reform, and public sector management. A Policy
Framework Paper prepared jointly by the Government, the Bank, and the Fund,
provided the framework for Ghana's recourse to the Extended Arrangement and
the Structural Adjustment Facility approved by the Fund Board in November
1987.
VII. RECOHMENDATION
85.        I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with tne Articles of Agreement of the Association.
86.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
May 9, 1988



- 26 -
ANNEX 1-1
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual          Prelim.              Projected
1984    1985    1986    1987       1988    1989    1990
------------------------(in Z)----------------------
GDP Growth Rate                      8.6     5.1      5.3     4.5       5.5      5.0     5.0
GDY Growth Rate a/                   5.6     4.2      6.1     4.5       5.5      5.0     5.0
GDY/Capita Growth Rate a/            2.3     0.9      2.8     1.2       2.2      1.7     1.7
Total Consump./Capita Growth Rate  -         0.0      1.1    -0.6       0.4      1.0     1.0
Debt Service, MLT (in US$ M) b/    403       415      386     567       561      464     376
Debt Service/XGS   c/               59.7    59.2    44.6    60.5       56.1    41.8    30.1
Debt Service/GDP                     5.4     6.1      8.0    12.3      11.3      8.8     6.4
Gross Investment/GDP                 6.9     8.0    10.7    13.0       15.0    16.9    18.0
Domestic Savings/GDP                 4.1     5.2      7.2     9.9      11.5    11.7    11.8
National Savings/GDP                 4.0      4.1     6.5     8.2      10.3    11.2    12.0
Marginal National Savings Rate       -       40.0    32.8    45.8      39.3    23.0    22.5
Public Investment/GDP                2.5     3.8      5.9     7.9       7.8      8.2     8.4
Public Savings/GDP                  -0.6     0.1      1.7     3.2       2.8      3.4     3.6
Private Investment/GDP               4.4     4.2      4.8     5.1       7.2     8.7      9.6
Private Savings/GDP                  4.6     4.1      4.7     5.0       7.5      7.8     8.3
Ratio of Public/Private Invest.    0.56    0.92    1.21    1.57         1.09    0.94    0.87
Government Revenues/GDP              8.0    10.4    13.6    14.0       13.5    14.0    14.0
Government Expenditures/GDP         10.9    14.1    17.8    19.1       18.9    19.1    18.9
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)/GDP    -2.9    -3.7    -4.2    -5.1         -5.4    -5.1    -4.9
Export Growth Rate                   -      22.4    12.3      8.7       9.1      4.6     5.4
Export/GDP                           8.0     9.8    16.6    19.3       19.1    19.0    18.4
Import Growth Rate                   -       8.8    13.0      2.4       5.6    12.0      9.3
Imports/GDP                         10.7    12.5    20.1    22.4       22.5    24.2    24.5
Current Account (in US$M)           -214    -263    -203    -220       -231    -299    -356
Current Account/GDP                 -2.8    -3.8    -4.2    -4.8       -4.6    -5.6    -6.0
Source:  World Bank Estimates.
a/ GDY per capita = GDP per capita adjusted for changes in the terms of trade.
b/ Includes IMP and payments of arrears but excludes repayments of short-term oil
facility borrowings.
c/ Includes private unrequited transfers.



-27 -                               ANNEX 1-2
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)
1986      1987       1988       1989       1990
Exports of Goods (fob)            749       787        840        897         973
Cocoa bean and products         503       465        448        459        480
Other exports                   245       322        392        439         493
Imports of Goods (cif)           -791      -836       -915    -1,069    -1,223
Oil                            -125      -144       -162       -166       -176
Non-oil                        -666      -692       -754       -903    -1,047
Trade Balance                     -42       -50        -75       -172        -250
Non-factor Services              -127       -92        -98       -107        -107
Receipts                         48       102        109        115        114
Payments                       -175      -194       -208       -222       -221
Resource Balance                 -169      -141       -173       -279       -357
Net Factor Payments              -106      -132       -113       -100         -87
Interest Payments              -102      -127       -110        -98        -90
Public                        -45       -73        -55        -56        -57
Private                        -1        -2         -6         -8         -8
Banking                       -55       -52        -48        -35        -25
Factor Payments & Other          -4        -5         -3         -2           3
Net Private Transfers & sul        72        53         56          80         88
Current Account Balance
- Foreign Savings              -203      -220       -231       -299       -356
As 1 of GNP                    -4.3      -4.9       -4.7       -5.7       -6.1
External Capital Inflow           183       380        290        277         284
Grants                          118       123        149        143        141
Public Foreign Borrowings    113          210        123        111        135
MLT net                       124       223        137        122        138
Gross Inflows               372       405        286        267        282
Concessional (LT)        257       290        250         230        249
of which:  SA"s          0        58         88         56          43
Non-concessional (HT)  115         115          36         37         33
of which:  oil          59        64          0          0           0
Amortization               -248      -182       -149       -145       -144
Trust Fund                    -11       -12        -13        -12         -4
Private Foreign Borrowiung
(Net)                18        -3         9          2         -0
Direct Foreign Investment         4         5          6           7          8
Short term borrowing            -71       -45          2         16           0
Errors & Omissions                -38       -21           0          0          0
Overall Balance                   -58       139         59        -22         -72
Source: World Bank Estimates.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1-3
GHANA
EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIRCEMNTS
(millions of USS)
1988        1969        1990
I.  Reouirements                                           761.0        743.0       696.7
Current Account Deficit                                    231.0        299.0       356.0
(excl. official transfers)
-cf which Interest payments on official debt e/    104.0               90.0        62.0
Amortization b/                                            162.0        157.0       148.0
Repayments to the IMF (Repurchases)                        265.0        182.0       112.0
Increase in Reserves                                        35.0         39.0        38.0
Reductions in debt arrears                                   30.0        35.0        33.7
Other c/                                                     38.0        31.0         9.0
Ia.  Disbursements:  Existir.g Comuitments d/              204.0        143.0        88.0
Off-cial Grants                                              71.0        43.0        24.0
Public MLT Loans                                           118.0         92.0        64.0
Bilateral                                                 22.0         25.0        25.0
Multilateral                                              96.0         67.0        39.0
Project-related                                         96.0        67.0         39.0
SAL and cofinancing                                      -            -           -
Other
SAP
IMF disbursements                                             -           -           -
Private Creditors                                           15.0          8.0         0.0
Direct Foreign Investments                                    -           -           -
IIb.  Disbursements:  Expected New Commitments             346.9        276.2       343.2
Official Grants                                              78.0       100.0       117.0
Public MLT Loans                                           131.6        138.2       185.2
Bilateral                                                 25.0         24.0        58.0
Multilateral                                             106.6        114.2       127.2
Project-related                                         18.5        58.0         84.0
SAL and cofinancing                                     88.1        56.2         43.2
Other                                                      -            -
IMr disbursements                                          101.3          0.0         0.0
Private Creditors e/                                        30.0         31.0        33.0
Direct Foreign Investments                                    6.0         7.0         8.0
II.  Total Identified Financing                            550.9        419.2       431.2
III.  Residual Financing Gaps before Rescheduling    210.1              323.8       265.5
IV.  Debt Relief (expected rescheduling)                      0.0         0.0         C.0
V.  Residual Financing Gaps after Rescheduling             210.1        323.8       265.5
(III - IV)
VI.  Possible Sources                                      210.1        323.8       265.5
ESAF                                                       113.7        131.7       154.4
IDA                                                          8.4         30.3        23.3
Cofinanciers                                                88.0        161.8        87.9
Note: Possible sources of additional funds to fill the tinancig gap shown in the
above table have been identified in the context of the Africa Debt initiative.
a/ Includes IMF charges.
b/  Includes IHF Trust Fund bLt excludes outflows for Governments purchases of
petroleum.
c/ Includes outward official unrequited transfers.
41 As of December 31. 1966.
!/  Excludes commercial financing of Government's purchases of petroleum.
AF41E
March 1988



FDWCIAI SETVt ADQAOjSNT afDIT
ASSESMQ  IOLT6 
(in miies mdi. ateed peried)
19t5 im                 iiz                          Lz 131                        a           am          am                       jm U
Ce.h an Mond                                39.6        51.1        1816.7      312.1      196.0      469.4       461.6        760.7     1,401 1     2,294.2      6,481.S      3,1.4      7 _..
mlene .- * it6 MGnd Oth0., ftnt.           3S7.&       504 1       613.6      1,36.6    1.762.8    1,965.0       1,901.9     3.421.7     4,424.8     5.514.2    1,7. 1        24,864.6     a.mo.$
Tr...ury Sill. Stoclk end Bond.            216.3       341.5       576.5       76s.e    1.111.5    1,609.0      2,300.0      4,283.7     6357.6      6600. 5       6 ."4.2    1181i.1    10,704.0
Casercial Oill-                            118.2       156.6        189.4       302.3      364.6       86.0        41.1        420.2       402.1        46.2      3,071.7      1,064.8       441.8
Lon. and Ad--na.                           604.1       776.9      1,097.9     1.543.5    1,746.8    2.32.6     3.163.4      3,676.5     6,423.4    12,266.0    22.4a.6       40,.J         ., 5
Oth- Ac& t/                                248,        2W.9        4N.7         M        1 0W6      142.        2.3J5        5-9.        ^4,47.2    IL1D.        min          2  0.a1.     7
Totr I Aeste                             1.2         2,1         3 15.1 9     5L1tiL.9    L91.0     7.974.1     102A1       I-072.4    dOAMA        41.h         "-71t.      ija&         i
D-_n4 Dose it-. L/                        56.9         1133.9     1,867.7     2,393.1    2,614.5    3,019.0     3.2"635      5,746.0     6712.9   Uis., 2Ma       1.712       2,260.4    86960.6
S.ing Do eito                              294.0       406.6       606.6      1,029.5    1,367.9    2,134-0     2,711.3      4,369.8     4,992.1     S,6. ,0      ,686.2      14,140.     16,016.2 
Ti_ O"posito                               1".6       166.        169.9       242.9       263.2      315.0      3J6.7         460.7       570.3     1,1 0.       2,062.6      6,60.6      U,S6.
Oslone. cith we0 *d 0..a lth. rI. . S/      91.4       102.5       117.0       la.3       196.2      273.4       291.S        507.3     1,772.9     1,072.6      0,26.1      11,86.4    2s,210.7
Pa;4-uP Cepietl and It..r's                113.1       147.4       188.5       275.7       302.2      460.0       440.3       6M2.9      2,611.5     4,3661 a,n6.6            7.s         6,460.4
0O1.h. Liabilities  i- 2                               440.4        U6.0      1.051.4    1.9ff.Q    1.77I       S.1  0      L02.r ..9112             U,U14.0     MAM          -.5O         U.4.14
Tot l Lilit i                            1,8e 42      211.1U3 L    if.1        LE.9    L21.0    7L974.1         102L.1      1LD24    27iM4          41.70t       1.1.4 2      12.mi0   1M.in
Sore:   S6.5 of U..., World _11.
ad   belde  m
hiInclud  el cI Ow..smmt d.Ieo.i.
/   nlud. external borrirn  of benk..
j/6*.  seo ineclde fi..d  omteS.. othr rl soots. special deit with    .              il    ,* etc.. .4*., liabilities include mrgin, *wie% metleglIea. liaieities. beige, in traspit. _
borreowing  free locl bos, nd mioc.1 sln, e     etc.
1bte. The proprtion of pul ic eector deposit, plus goernemet depoit. o,er total deposit. is wbout 2011 for 1966. US f  1"0. *ed 15.86 a of S1 eteor 168.
_.



FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
GDP/MONEY SUPPLY
1979      1975      198       1961      1962      1968      1964       19o        1 i6      1-9 
(estimate)
In oillIon cedis or percentoges
Total CMP at current market price4   2,259     6,268    42,S61    72,626    06,451   1C4,928   279,561    878,66    511,26    72,17
Banking systm net assets  (1)        572.7   1,745.8  9,C52.2    16,893    19,89t  29,146.7  88,129.2  43,591.4        67,807     * .129
Assets/GOP                            9.25      *.3s      S.28      8.21      *.28      0.15      *.12       E.18        .1S        9.14
Total Sank Credits                                     2,067.6  2,692.7   2,966.1   6,732.1  11,996.7   21,481.1  48,82860        7J,945
Credits/GCOP                                              8.65      9.4       S."       6.6* 0    864        *8.6        G."         . 018
Total Narrow Money Supply (1l)       896.4  1,166.6   6,224.6  10,147.8  12,297.1  16,770.1 26,648.8  48,471.1  64,619.6    106,689
Ml/CDP                                8.14      8.19      6.15       .14      9.14      8.16 1.18             6.12       N.1i U.14
Total Broad Money Supply (N2)        426.6   1,86.8  6,696.2    18,684  17,129.6  24,828.5  88,SA6.9  55,686.1   64,694          113,762
M2/CDP                                8.19      0.26      0.20      *.19      0.29      6.18      *.18       *.1C        6.17       9.19
Source:  OC and World Bank Eatimtas
(1)  includes Bank of Chase.
MONEY SUPPLY                                                                w
1976        1971 190              1961      1962     196       1904      1906       1900    1067 (Sept.)
Million C-dis Currency
Notes A coins in circulation       167.1       524.4       8,697     8,662   7,466.8  11,484.6  16,284.4  25,826.5  84,784.7   40,857.6
Hsld by commercial banks            16.4 a     6.$ S       4609.4    66.9      766.7  1,899.2  2,291.2    8,429.6    8,4946.    7,91.6
Total held outside banks           159.7       465.6    8,427.6   5,946.1  6,727.6  16,986.6  18,948.2  21,696.9  81,244.2   U,S916.
Demand deposits
With Primry Banks                  154.7       628.2       2,89P   3,8U90.     4,946     6,477   6,776.1   18,240.1   17,718.1   19,62.2C
With Secondary Banks                  NA          NA       661.8    664.4   1,419.1  2,717.2   8,766 1    7,549.6   18,04.8         16,267
With Bank of Ghana                    NA          NA        66.7      26.8    182.4    6159.       185.9       764.5    2,684.5    7,276.2
Total d-end deposits               154.7       528.2       2,797   4,292.5   6,569.5   6,783.5  12,706.1   21,514.2   8,79. 4   48,861.6
Total narrow money supply (Ml)       895.4    1.M.6    6.224.6  15 147.6  12.297.1 18.776.1  26.648.3   48.471.1  64.619.6   76S T    7.6
Tis A Savings Deposits:
With Primary Banks                 121.2       877.5    1,661.6   2,613.6   8,682.6  4, 4. 2   6,197.8    6,48t.2   1J,6C1.5  19,62 .6
With Secondary Banks                  NA          NA         619     672.9     1,26    1,489.2  2,664.6    5,159.6   6,982.9   11,229.5
Total Quasi Monoy                  121.2       877.5    2,471.6  3,466.4   4,682.6  6,655.4   7,192.6         11,U6   19,904.4   51,128.1
Total Broad Money Supply (12)        426.6     1.396      6.6C9S2    138634  17.129.6  24.82856  U3. S69   SC9816.1        4.041 197.911.7
*Primary BSnic only.
Source: Sank of Ghana



GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CPEDIT
DEPOSITS AND THEIR STRUCTURE
(Sept.)
1976      1977      1976      1979     1969     1961      1982     1968      1964      19 C      1900      1967
(In million cedin)
Demand Deposits       786.2  1,294.7   2,299      2,384.5  2,777.3  2,966.8   6,476.1  8,166.4  12,685.6  2,U1.3  81,619.4  84,419.6
Savinga Deposits      499.6 e    66.8   1,920.5   1,867.9  2,134    2,711.8  4,869.8  4,992.1  6,990        6,632.2  14,149.6  17,616.2
Time Deposits         *ss.6     169.9    242.9    268.2   316         386.7    486.7    676.8  1,186.8  2,642.6   6,96.6  18,669.5
Total               ,36s9.3  29.91.4   a.4s9.4   3,966.6  6,226.3  6,068.8  10,939.6  13,722.8  19,815.4  3.566.6  61,731.3  866184.2
(In percontng-e)
Dma nd Deposits       56         62        68        59       58       49        58        69        64        64        6l        C2
Savings Deosite        Ss        29        so        84       41       46        42        U6        so        27        27        27
Tie Dpesite           14         9         7         7        6        6         4         4         6         9        12        21
Total                1N        1N       1N      1N       1SO     1i0  199  1"                       199  1N       IN        la
Source: Rek of Ghana
Ntes: Include  prie_y and second ry beaks; eod for both private and public sector.
I|



GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TOTAL BANK CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISES BY SECTOR
(in million cedis)
(Sept.)
1980      1981       1982      1983        1984        1985        1986       1987
Agriculture, forestry, fishing            412.4      655.0      688.6   2,012.9    3,779.1    5,207.6    7,476.3   9,447.1
Export trade                               69.4      172.9       67.2       92.0       187.4       490.0    1,451.2   2,255.6
Manufacturing                             472.0      508.3      635.2      866.6    3,288.4    6,046.4   10,800.4  15,952.5
Transport, storage, communications        1,3.5      215.2      201.8      331.3       653.7    1,154.3    2,021.5   3,451.2
Mining, quarrying                          55.0      137.1      243.0      416.3       497.5       960.2    1,437.3   2,430.5
Import trade                               34.4       47.6       42.4      107.4       307.7       990.7    2,931.4   4,476.4
Construction                              289.1      411.9      511.2      796.6    1,273.9    2,017.8    3,899.4   5,052.9
Commerce and finance                      246.0      321.1      293.5      683.2    1,175.0    2,820.3    5,042.0   5,265.7
Electricity, gas, water                   116.0       44.2       42.2       49.6        21.4        37.8        46.1       83.8
Services                                  108.5      157.1      175.0      250.8       533.7    1,224.8    2,611.5   3,449.3
Miscellaneous                              71.5      13'.3       86.u      125.4       277.9       451.2    2,611.5   1,144.1
TOTAL                             2,067.8   2,802.7   2,986.1   5,732.1   11,995.7   21,401.1   40,328.6  53,009.1
----     ----     --_ ---  -S--=--- -_---
Source: Bank of Ghana



- 33 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STUDY OF MEASURES NEEDED TO ENHANCE THE MONEY MARKET
1.        An expert should be engaged to carry out an urgent assessment of
the measures necessary to establish a proper operational and regulatory
framework for the newly-opened Ghanaian money market. The expert should
be, or have been until recently, a senior practitioner in a discount house
or similar money market institution, preferably in a market similar to that
in the UK. He will be fully familiar with the operations of a discount
house, and will understand well the range of potential instruments in which
it can deal. He should be accustomed to being involved in the formal and
informal relationships which bind together the various participants in a
money market, and particularly those between a discount house and the
Central Bank. His standing and seniority should be such that his advice
delivered in Accra, after e short visit, should be authoritative and
self-evidently neutral and objective. For ti,is reason, he should,
desirably, be fully committed elsewhere, and unavailable for any longer
term engagement in connection with the Ghanaian money market.
Terms of Reference
2.        The expert will review all the available papers concerning the
background of the Ghanaian money market, and the formation and operation of
Consolidated Discount House Ltd. (CDH), including any money market
regulations by then promulgated by the Bank of Ghana (BOG).
3.        During a field visit to Accra of no more thar. two weeks, the
expert will visit all institutions involved in the money market, for
discussions on their expectations, and the degree to which these have been
met since the opening of the money market on 30 November, 1987.
4.        The expert will hold detailed meetings with officials involved at
BOG, and have a dialogue on BOG's concerns in connections with the
prudential regulation of CDH and the money market generally. This may or
may not be in the context of extant regulations, but should also take
cognizance of BOG's monetary control responsibilities.
5.        Through extensive discussions with management and staff of CDH,
the expert will form a view of the operational scope for a discount house
in the Ghanaian environment, and the degree to which it is prospectively
able to provide a vseful and reasonably profitable service to its clients
in the money market. This must include an in-depth assessment of the
adequacy of the financial support and regulatory arrangements between CDH
and BOG.
6.        The expert will tender advice to CDH on the ambit and content of
its Statement of Operational Policies, noting the extent of any differences
existing on it between CDH and BOG.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 2
7.        Having performde the task. described in 1-6. above, the expert
will prepare a pre*entation which identifies all the significant issues
requiring attentlon, to establish and maintain a soundly-based money
mnrket. It wili go on to present unequivocal recommendations, with
justification where appropriate, as to how each of these issues should be
resolved.
S.        The presentation referred to in 7. above will first be made to
DOM officials, who will be invited to make observations. These will be
coasidered by the expert, who, in his discretion, may modify the contents
of the presentatLon, before subsequently delivering it to the management of
CDR. This latter audience may be widened, if considered appropriate by the
ezpert, to include representatives of other financial institutions.
9.        On return to base, the expert will write a confidential report,
outlining the presentation as originally prepared, the BOG observations,
the resultant changes, if any, and the germane comments by CDH or other
recipients.
A     41 9
April 1965



ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STUDY OF POTENTIAL FOR A STOCK MARKET
1.        An expert on stockmarkets in developing countries should be
engaged, to perform a study of certain aspects applicable to the
introduction of a Stockmarket in Ghana, as detailed in the TOR's below.
The expert should be particularly familiar with assessing the demand for
the services to be offered through such a Stockmarket, from private
investors, institutional investors and corporate iseuers. The expert
should be able to comment on the need for, and likely encouraging effect
of, a variety of investment and issuing incentives. Knowledge of the
workings of an exchange, and the influences on its profitability, are more
important than expertise on legal frameworks or regulatory arrangements,
which have been dealt with by others.
Terms of Reference
2.        The expert should review the available reports on the background
to, and implementation programme for the establishment of a Stockmarket in
Ghana.
3.        During a field visit to Accra of at least two weeks, the expert
should meet the Government and Bank of Ghana officials responsible for the
Stockmarket implementation plan, to understand more clearly their
viewpoints, and expectations.
4.        The expert should interview members of the Technical
Sub-committee of the Committee on the Establishment of a Stock Exchange,
and fully brief himself on the status of its draft plan.
5.        A comprehensive study should be made of the prospective demand by
investment institutions to purchase equity investments, and the likely use
such institutions would make of the proposed Stockmarket in the initial
purchase of such instruments, and subsequent trading. The study should
cover, inter alia, commarcial, merchant, development and specialized banks,
insurance companies, pension and provident funds, the Social Security
National Investment Trust and the National TLust Holding Company.
6.        As much data as possible should be assembled on the use likely to
be made of the proposed Stockmarket by individual and corporate investors,
in both initial purchases and secondary trading.
7.        An assessment should be made, based on management and shareholder
interviews with a meaningful sample of private companies, of the likely use
of the proposed Stockmarket by such enterprises in raising capital.
8.        The expert should consider what types, if any, of incentive
measures might enhance significantly the flow of investment funds and
potential corporate issuers to the Stockmarket. He should determine the



- 36 -                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 2
likely and indirect effects of the proposed incentives, and provide a
condensed statement of recommendation for transmission to the Ghanaian
Authorities.
9.        The expert should familiarize himself with the Government's
latest privatization plans, and make appropriate enquiries about the
suitability of using the facilities of the proposed Stockmarket for such
divestitures.
10.       Based on the results of his investigations, the expert should
ascertain the likely profitability of the Stockmarket institutions, and
form an opinion on the adequacy of the proposed institutional and
administrative arrangements.
11.       In the course of his work, the expert may well discover facts, or
draw conclusions, which may be of relevance to the establishment of the
Ghanaian Stockmarket, even though being peripheral to the main body of
these TORs. These should be recorded separately, in an Annex to the report
required under 12. below.
12.       The results of the expert's work should be embodied in a full but
concise report, covering all of his investigations and conclusions, for
which two weeks preparation time should be sufficient. For the avoidance
of doubt, it is required that the report contains his clear opinion on the
prospects of an adequate quantum of business becoming available to the
proposed Stockmarket, within a stated timeframe.
AF4IE
April 1988



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
FOR
THE BANK OF GHANA
1.        Background
A strong system of bank supervision and a sound legal framework
are necessary for the BOG to effectively carry out its role of monitoring
and preserving the health of the financial system. Shortcomings in the
existing legal framework and weak banking supervision have led to serious
problems in the banking sector. Both prudential regulation and banking
supervision must be improved if the BOG is to ensure the safety and
soundness of a restructured banking system. This technical assistance
program seeks to meet many of the needs for specialized expertise and
technology necessary to strengthen prudential regulation and supervision
including the:
(i)   establishment of uniform accounting and auditing
standards;
(ii)  improvement in skill levels ard examination methodologies
of supervision staff;
(iii) strengthening of prudential reporting and development of
an offsite analysis/early warning capability; and
(iv)  revision of banking laws, rules, and regulations.
2.         Concept for Technical Assistance
There should be several components to assist the BOG in
strengthening prudential supervision and the legal framework. The
components are:
(i)   appointment of two bank supervision experts as long-term
technical advisors;
(ii)  training for bank supervision staff;
(iii) provision to employ a major international accounting firm
for short-term assignments;
(iv)  provision to employ a banking law expert for short-term
technical assistance;



- 38 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 6
(v)   provision to employ a technology consultant for
short-term technical assistance; and
(vi) microcomputers and peripherals.
2.1       Bank SuDervision Advisors
To strengthen bank supervision, specialized expertise is needed
ftm abroad. Two advisors should be appointed for two year assignments to
work closely with the BOG's Bank Examination Department. These advisors
ehb4d be experts in bank supervision as demonstrated by their experience
and standing in their home countries. At least one of the advisors should
have experience at a senior level. Since they will be heavily involved in
training, prior training experience and excellent communication skills are
also desirable. It is anticipated that the advisors will have direct
access and report to the Governor of the BOG. The primary functions of
these adviscro will be to:
Ci)   coordinate and conduct training of bank supervision staff
and develop a permanent program for continuing examiner
education;
1ii)  develop and implement new concepts of bank supervision
which focus on assessing the quality of management, asset
quality, capital adequacy, earnings and efficiency, and
liquidity/asset and liability management. The methodology
should also be prospective in scope and should attemnpt to
upgrade the quality of each bank's management systems as
the first line of defense against imprudent and/or
illegal practices. The new concepts of bank supervision
should be formalized in written form in a manual of
examination procedure;
(iii) improve prudential reporting and develop an offsite
analysis/early warning capability;
tiv)  establish uniform accounting and auditing standards;
(v)   review organization, staffing, and compensation of the
supervision unit and make appropriate recommendations;
(vij  develop mechanisms for handling distressed or failed
banks and assist in the restructuring of banks; and
(vii) assist in such other matters as relate to banking
supervision and the framework of banking laws, rules, and
regulations.
These advisors should be selected and brought on-board as soon
as po,eble. However, given the criLical role they will play in the
succuW0tul strengthening of the bank supervision function, considerable
ceae ebould be taken in their selection.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 6
2.2       Bank Supervision Training
In most countries, it takes four to five years, at a minimum,
for an examiner to acquire the skills necessary to lead an examination
team into a bank as the examiner-in-charge. To acquire these skills, a
combination of on-the-job training, classroom instruction, seminars, and
reference materials is needed. Therefore, a program is recommended which
combines these features:
(i)   a program of continuous education for examiners. The most
critical skills in need of improvement are the following:
(a) credit assessment and classification; (b) financial
analysis; (c) asset and liability management; and (d)
foreign exchange management;
(ii) fellowships for three senior examiners to travel abroad
each year to participate in courses or seminars conducted
by other bank regulatory agencies;
(iii) provision for two foreign experts to participate as
instructors in two seminars to be held locally each year;
and
(iv) provision for the purchase of books, instructional aids,
and other materials necessary for training or reference.
2.3       International Auditing Firm
Uniform accounting and auditing standards should be introduced
to eliminate existing accounting practices which understate problem
assets, inflate income, and present a distorted picture of a bank's true
condition. Uniform standards will also enable banking supervisors,
investors, depositors, and creditors to compare the performance of
institutions with a more reasonable degree of accuracy and comfort. To
assist and expedite this process, it may be necessary to contract the
services of a major international accounting firm. This firm will also be
expected to assist in developing the prudential reporting formats
necessary for bank supervisors to conduct offsite and early warning
analysis. Therefore, a technical assistance component is included for two
persons for three months during 1988.
2.4       BankinR Law Expert
The BOG, together with the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, is proposing revisions to the existing body of laws, rules, and
regulations which govern the conduct of banking. The proposed revisions
seek to strengthen the hand of banking supervisors and correct omissions in
the current law. For this reason, it may be necessary to ;eview the legal
framework as it exists in other countries and to consult the advice of an
expert in the field. Therefore, a technical assistance component of has
been allocated to support a one week visit during 1988 by an expert in the
field of banking law and regulation.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 6
2.5       Technoloas Consultant
The BOG will be establishing an offsite analysis/early warning
function in its Bank Examination Department. This requires a short-term
consultant to help select the appropriate hardware, program the application
software, and train bank supervision staff in the basics of using and
maintaining the system. The consultant will be required to work closely
with the technical advisors for bank supervision to establish standard
output reports. However, the system should remain flexible enough to
manipulate data, prepare ad hoc reports, perform financial modeling, and
permit revisions to the standard reports. The estimated need is for one
consultant for approximately three months in 1988.
2.6       Microcomputer Component
The Bank Examination Department of the BOG requires three
microcomputers, peripheral equipment, and software for its offsite analysis
function.
3.        Technical Assistance Program Cost Estimates
3.1       Capital Expenditures
(i)   The cost for microcomputers, peripheral equipment, and
software for the offsite analysis/early warning function
is estimated at $30,000.
(ii)  The cost of books, reference materials, instructional
aids, and other materials for training during 1988 and
1989 is estimated at $10,000.
3.2       Recurrent Expenditures
(i)   The cost of salaries and benefits, relocation and
settling in expenses, housing, and amenities for two bank
supervision advisors for a period of two years is
estimated at $400,000 and 12,000,000 cedis.
(ii)  Travel, subsistence, and enrollment expenses for three
senior examiners to attend seminars abroad each year
during 1988 and 1989 is estimated at $50,000.
(iii) Salary, travel, and subsistence expenses for two foreign
experts to instruct at two seminars in Ghana each year
are estimated at $70,000 and 320,000 cedis.
(iv)  The cost of contracting two individuals from a major
international accounting firm for a period of three
months in 1988 is estimated at $250,000.
(v)   Salary, travel, and subsistence expenses for a banking



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 6
law expert to visit Ghana for one week during 1988 is
estimated at US$7,000 and 120,000 cedis.
(vi)  Salary, travel, and subsistence expenses for a technology
consultant for three months during 1988 is estimated at
US$35,000 and 1,800,000 cedis.
BUDGET FOR BANK OF GHANA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
lose                               1989                               Tal I
'4Sn bnth-   Fore; an   Lac I         an Months  For,ian  Local        Man Months  Forsicn  I,aja.
6      COdC                        S      Cedi                        I      Cede-
A.  Capital Ex*enditur
M4icrocomputers                                 15,000                                                                15,000
Per;pheral Equipment                             6,000                                                                 6,000
Software                                         6,000                                                                 6, 000
Oths,                                            3,000                                                                 J,000
Book., reference materials,
instructional side, etc.                                 ____                       5a0S.._                           10. 000 
TOTAL CAPITAL EPEVITLRES                        35,000                               5,000                            40,000
S.  Recurrent Expenditures
Bank Supervision Advi6 or-           24                                   24                                46
Slar;i*                                       120,000                            120,000                            240,000
BenefitO 30,000                                                                    30,000                             30,000
Relocation/Settling In                          50,000                             50,000                            100,000
lousine and Aenitie                                      600000 0        _                  6 000                    - -    12-000 000
2L       j200 000   6 000 000      1i4       200 00d OO,OOO044                  400 000  12^,00QO
IminUrL  Abroad                       2                                   2                                   4
Fees                                             3,000                              3.000                              6,000
Travel                                          12,000                              12,000                            24,000
Subeistence                                     10-  0                   _          1020_ 0                  _        i2Q000
2   25 00                               25 000            0                50 000
Foreirn Instructore                   2
S*laries                                        20,000                             20,000                             40,000
Travel                                          15.000                              15,000                            30,000
Sul i stance                         _                      160000 -                          160 O          _                   J200
_2         3iO         160o 0       2         35 000    160.SL          A        70Z0r    t



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 6
BJD9 FOR AW( OF GiAN TEOXICAL ASSISTANCE PROM
11w                             I,'_                          Tota 
Man Month   Fo_aian   L20.       Man Fonth  For ion  Local      Mfn Month  FZOEMiN  WaJI
8     codi                      I    Codi.                     I    Cud;.
Int.rn.tional Accounientc
Contrect                         -        2'O.                      -                         -         250_000
_ 250.                           0     0      0          0   Q          _ 250. 0
ankina Low Expeat              0.25                                                            0.25
Salary                                      3,000                                                           3,000
Travel                                      4,000                                                           4,000
Sub.iatencea                                          _          __ -                           -        -            120
025         7.000   _  ).000       Q            O          0   _Q            7.000    120.000
Tchnolosn Consulmnt               3                                                                3
Salary                                     21,000                                                          21,000
Travel                                     14,000                                                          14,000
SQ.ba;atnc3                                         1.800.000     -             O    _          -        -          I.800.000
3       35 J00    1 .800 .                                      30              35i. 0    1 .800-.000
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENITURES   37.25       552,000   8,080,000     28      260,000  6,168,000   65.25      812,000  14,240,000
A  ES       87s0    nua-se   *--            250 6100    5.               __
TOTAL ECPSCITUlES             37.25       587.000   8,080,000     28      265.000  6,160,000   65.25      652,158  14,248,000
-            --          -.         ..     _a        . _          _



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-4
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF A CREDIT CLEARING HOUSE
A.   BACKGROUND
1.        one of the major problems in the Ghanaian banking system is
unduly large exposure and loan concentration, largely as a result of State
majority ownership in a number of banks and enterprises, inadequate banksng
legislation, and defective management practices. Improving the
transparency of risk concentration among banks and from banks to tho SW0
would lead to more prudent lending by janks and to better supervision by
BOG. This could be achieved through t.s establishment a "Centrals do
Risques' or 'Credit Clearing House' (CCH) along the lines of similar
institutions that exist in other countries.
2.        The CCH to be established would make it mandatory for banks to
regularly report on any risk (working capital, term loans or guarantees)
above a certain limit on any single company or group of companies. Afto.
proper computerization by the CCH, each bank would be allowed to receive
information on the aggregated risk of each company or group with the whole
banking system (the risky position with any single bank would, of course,
not be disclosed.) The system should include all banks, whether co_ ercial
or development banks, privately or publicly owned.
3.        The system could be implemented gradually, starting with risks
above the cedi equivalent of US$100,000. Once the system has been tested,
the minimum level could be gradually lowered to US$50,000 and possibly to
USS25,000. Rural banks could use different standards.
4.        The CCH should be operated by the BOG.  However, if reasons of
public confidence warrant it, it could be established by the Bankers'
Association, provided BOG has the possibility to monitor and inspect its
operations and to have regular access to the information necessary for
supervisory purposes.
B.   SCOPE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
5.        The program for assisting in the setting up of the CCH would
include: (i) Appointment of a technical advisor; (ii) Training for N0o's
staff; and (iii) Computer equipment.
6.        Owing to the complexity of the proposed mechanism, specialized
foreign expertise would be needed. Twelve man-months of advisory aervices
would be required--to be provided consecutively or in successive periods.
The technical advisor would have to design the system, train staff, assist
in the selection of computer equipment and supervise the initial stage of
implementation until smooth operation is achieved. Purchase of the
necessary computer equipment would also be financed.
7.        A preliminary survey to be carried out by an expert for about
three weeks would lead to the preparation of a more de%ailed action progrm
project.
AF4IE
March 1988



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE INSTITUTE
OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
A. Background
1.        The Institute of Chartered Accountants (Ghana) was established
under an Act of Parliament in 1963. It is the sole body charged with the
development and regulation of the accountancy profession in Ghana. Its
statutory functions include:
(a) the conduct of qualifying examinations for membership of the
Institute;
(b)  the supervision of professional standard  and ethics among
members of the Institute; and,
(c) the duty to maintain a library of books and other literature on
accountancy and related subjects and to encourage publication of
such literature.
2.        The governing body of the Institute is the Council consisting of
eleven members all of whom must be members of the Institute and who render
voluntary service to the Institute for no remuneration. The Institute has
a Secretariat of fifteen members of staff headed by an Executive Secretary.
Presently, the membership of the Institute stands at 400, with 3,500
reg-atered students at various stages of the qualifying professional
examinations of the Institute. The Institute is a member of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). It is also a founding
member of the Association of Accountancy Bodies in West Africa (ABWA), a
sub-regional body of the IFAC, whose objectives include the development and
enhancement of the accountancy profession and the promotion and development
of professional ethics and accountancy standards and practices in West
Africa.
3.        In order to strengthen the framework within which financial
institutions operate, a strong accounting profession is needed to enhance
the reliability of financial information, to strengthen audits of banks to
provide a true and accurate picture of each bank's financial condition, and
to assist in upgrading the quality of operations and systems employed by
these institutions. However, in Ghana, weaknesses in the accounting
profession have failed to disclose the enormity of problems present in the
financial institutions. Accounting standards need to be strengthened to
prevent the capitalization of interest, to preclude the accrual of interest
into income on non-performing assets, to mandate provisions for problem
assets, and to force the recognition of losses on bad assets. Further, the
training and skills level of accountants need to be strengthened through



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 6
modernization of the qualifying examination process, continuing education,
and provision of research and advisory facilities.
4.        Continuing efforts to train accountants locally, to keep pace
with current events in accountancy, and to develop the profession in Ghana
have met with numerous problems including:
(a)  inadequate financing to support the Institute's activities;
(b) an insufficient supply of qualified teaching personnel;
(c) an inappropriate structure for the training and education of
accountants;
(d)  a lack of adequate teaching materials, books, and other teaching
aids; ard,
(e) a lack of current accounting literature necessary to keep pace
with worldwide developments in the profession.
B.   Concept for Technical Assistance
5.        There should be several components to assist the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in strengthening the accounting profession in Ghana.
The components are:
(a) appointment of two technical advisors;
(b) training, teaching aids, and equipment;
(c) reference library; and
(d) motor vehicles.
Technical Advisors
6.        To strengthen the accounting profession, specialized expertise is
needed from abroad. Two advisors should be appointed for an initial
two-year assignment to work within the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
These advisors should be qualified certified or chartered accountants,
preferably from the UK Chartered Association of Certified Accountants or
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Their
functions should be as follows:
(a) One advisor will be responsible for setting up a Practice
Advisory Service to give professional counselling or a second
opinion to practitioners on technical matters relating to auditing,
accounting, and allied areas. This service will be of particular
use to sole practitioners and smaller firms who do not have the
resources for such services in-house.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 6
(b) The other advisor will be responsible for setting up and
developing a Technical Department. The Department will be
responsible for initiating and organizing:
(i) the technical and research programs of the Institute;
(ii) the continuing professional education program for the
professional development of the members of the Institute;
(iii) the development of teaching aids and other material to
incorporate material and examples related to t;v local
environment;
(iv) the review and update of the examination syllabus of the
Institute; and,
(v) workshops for examiners and moderators who administer the
Institute's professional examinations.
7.        The Institute has advertised for the appointment locally of a
professionally qualified accountant who will be developed into a competent
and effective Technical Director. The Technical Advisor will contribute to
his professional development.
Trainini, Teaching Aids, and Equipment
8.        Training is an integral part of the process to upgrade the
accountancy profession in Ghana. Therefore, a program is recommended
combining the following features:
(a) a program of continuing professional education for members of the
Institute to be organized and conducted by one of the technical
advisors. This program is to be supplemented by experts from the
United Kingdom to conduct seminars on specialized areas such as
computers, international accounting standards and international
auditing practices. It is envisaged that two foreign experts
will participate in two-week seminars to be conducted twice a
year in Ghana;
(b) provision for the Technical Director to attend up to four
two-week training seminars abroad during a two-year period;
(c) a program of training for examiners and moderators of the
Institute's qualifying professional examinations to be organized
by one of the technical advisors. It is envisaged that two
foreign experts will participate in one two-week seminar to be
held in Ghana each year;
(d) fellowships for three members of the Institute to travel abroad
each year and participate in professional development courses
conducted by a recognized accounting body; and
(e) provision for teaching aids and equipment.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 6
Reference LibrarX
9.        Current literature concerning accountancy, auditing, and allied
subjects is lacking and, therefore, serves to constrain the development and
modernization of the accountancy profession in Ghana. There is an urgent
need for textbooks, reference materials, technical bulletins, and
periodicals, as well as microfilm readers and other library equipment, to
assist members of the Institute and students in their professional
development.
Motor Vehicles
10.       The technical advisors will require vehicles for transportation
during their assignments. In addition, a vehicle is necessary for
upcountry visits to universities and other institutions for work related to
the Institute.
C.   Technical Assistance ProRram Cost Estimates
Capital Expenditures
11.  (a)  The cost of teachings aids to be used in continuing
professional education courses is estimated at US$15,000. This
includes monies for two video recorders, four TV monitors, twelve
videotapes, two personal computers, software, and peripherals,
and two overhead projectors and accessories.
(b) The cost of books, reference materials, photocopies, and other
classroom aids to be used in continuing professional education
courses is estimated at US$5,000 per year.
(c) The cost of procuring textbooks, reference books, technical
bulletins, periodicals, and other reference materials for the
Institute's library is estimated at US$50,000 per year for two
years. This estimate represents the initial capital costs
necessary to bring the library up to standard. At present, .ess
than 25Z cf available shelf space is filled.
(d) The cost of three motor vehicles is estimated at US$40,000. Two
vehicles are to be used by the technical advisors. The third
vehicle, a four-wheel drive, is to be used for upcountry visits
to universities and other institutions.
Recurrent Expenditures
12.  (a)  The cost of salaries and benefits, relocation and settling in
expenses, housing and amenities for two accountancy advisors
for a period of two years is estimated ac US$360,000 and
12,000,000 cedis.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 6
(b) Travel, subsistence, and enrollment fees for (1) two foreign
experts to instruct in two two-week continuing professional
education courses each year and for (2) two foreign experts to
conduct a two-week course for examiners and moderators each year
are estimated at US$50,000 and 240,000 cedis each year for two
years.
(c) Salary, travel, and subsistence expenses for (1) two foreign
experts to instruct in two two-week continuing professional
education courses each year and for (2) two foreign experts to
conduct a two-week course for examiners and moderators each year
are estimated at US$50,000 and 240,000 cedis each year for two
years.
13.       A budget for technical assistance program cost estimates follows
on subsequent pages.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 6 of 6
BUDGET FOR INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
19M                               1989                              Tot l
n    Hs   Foroim    LKnl           Mn Months  Foreion  LIL           Mn    nth     rsn  La
6      cedia                      I     Cadie a                           Cedie
A   Capital Expenditure.
Teaching Aide                                 15,000                                                              15,000
Books. refemnce _terlale,
classreoo  aide, ete.                        5,000                            5,000                             10,000
Reference Library                             50,000                           50.000                            100,000
motor Vehicles                                40L        -                        -                               40,000
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPSdTURES                     110.000       0                   5S,000        0                   1S,O000        0
B. Recurrent Exp.nditurca
Accountencv Advisor&              24                                   24                               48
Salaries                                     100,000                           100,000                           200,000
SInafits                                      30,000                            30,000                            60,000
Relocation/Sattl in In                        50,000                            50,000                           100,000
housing and Asen,ties                                  600 000         __                6000000         _                12 000 000
2A        180O00    6 000000        24       180 00   6 000 000       48      360 000  12 000 000
Sigmn.rj Abroad                    3                                    3                                 6
F*6.                                           9,000                             9,000                            1R.000
Travel                                        12,000                            12,000                            24,000
Subsistence                                   is, 1!is,3 00000
30,0 3o             o                 s  oo                             72 0000
For. ion Instructors               3                                    3                                 6
Salaries                                      30,000                            30,000                            60,000
Travel                                        20,000                            20,000                            40,000
Subs stance                                              240 0         _                   240 000       -                   4O00
A        .._QQQ       240 000      J         50 000    240000                100,0        480 000
TOTAL RE TBFl   EXP9QITLU         30         266,000   6,240,000       30      266,000  6,240,000       60       5S2,000  12,480,000
TOTAL EXPENITURES                 30         576,000   6,240,000       30      321,000  6,240,000       60       597,000  12,480,000



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CR'DIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR BANBERS' TRAIIUING
A.   BackRround
1.        The Government of Ghana has embarked on a program of development
and liberalization in its financial markets. As part of this program, the
banking system, which has operated within an oligopolistic environment,
will operate within a more open and competitive environment leading to
greater efficiency and modernization. Lending policies of banks which, in
the past, sought to meet social goals will, in the future, be predicated on
more prudent banking principles. These changes in the banking system
require stronger banking skills and expertise at all levels, a more
professional approach to management of financial institutions, and greater
depth in the ranks of management. To upgrade the skills and expertise of
banking personnel, a bankers' training program is proposed.
2.        The need to upgrade the skills of new and existing personnel,
particularly at the management and professional levels, can best be
addressed by first designating an appropriate body to oruanize and
coordinate training needs for the entire banking industry. The Bank of
Ghana is the logical focal point for this body in the absence of a strong
bankers' association. Bringing management and professional level personnel
together for training would offer substantial economies of scale, reduce
training staff to a manageable level, permit specialized expertise to be
brought from abroad to participate and instruct in training courses, and
provide a sharing of experience and a discussion of problems common to the
local. environment with the hope of improving banking practices and
resolving common problems.
3.        The objectives of providing management and professional level
training would be to:
(a) Upgrade and internationalize banking skills in the core functions
of management, lending/marketing, operations/technology,
planning/financial management, and treasury/asset and liability
management.
(b)  Develop a more professional approach to management and to upgrade
the quality of management systems used by financial institutions
in Ghana.
(c) Introduce the most recent developments and techniques in banking
and the financial markets.
(d) Upgrade the quality of training materials and instruction
conducted in-house within banks in Ghana through the transfer of
skillis, technology, and knowledge from abroad.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 6
4.        In addition to training at the management and professional level,
assistance at the institutional level is needed to support training of
clerical and support staff in-house or in cooperation with the Ghana
Institute of Bankers. This assistance includes support for curses in
fundamental banking skills and the theory of banking, training materials
and teaching aids, and motor vehicles to transport instructors and
students.
B.   Concept for Training Program
5.        There should be several components to strengthen the skills and
knowledge of the banking profession in Ghana.  The components are:
(a)  Seminars and courses for managerial and professional level staff
to be conductec locally and abroad.
(b)  Teaching aids, reference materials, equipment, and motor
vehicles.
(c)  Financing to support the work of the Ghana Bankers' Institute, to
enable! it to develop and strengthen its own capabilities for
training bankers in Ghana.
Managerial and Professional Level Training
6.        Managerial and professional level training is required at all
levels of management. The most critical training needs are in the areas of
management, credit, asset and liability management, foreign exchange
management, and planning. To meet these needs, a program of continuous
professional education is recommended which features seminars conducted
both locally and abroad. (The decision of whether to hold a seminar
locally or abroad will largely depend upon the number of personnel to be
trained in a particular skill and the degree of specialization required).
7.        The core courses recommended are:
(a)  Entry and Junior-Level Managers and Professionals
(1)  Financial Statement Analysis
(2)  Introductory Foreign Exchange Management
(3)  Microcomputers
(4)  Bank Accounting
(5)  Money and Banking
(6)  Cash Management Services and Operations
(7)  Introduction to Asset and Liability Management
(8)  Introductory Credit Analysis
(9)  Marketing
(10)  Managing People
(11)  Introductory International Banking
(12)  Project Management and Appraisal
(13)  Banking Laws and Regulations
(14)  Audit and Compliance Systems



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 6
(b)  Mid-Level Managers and Professionals
(1)  Intermediate Foreign Exchange Management
(2)  Intermediate Credit Analysis
(3)  Intermediate Asset and Liability Management/Treasury
(4)  Intermediate International Banking
(5)  Intermediate Management Seminar
(6)  Establishing Effective Internal Controls
(7)  Problem Loan Identification, Workout, and Debt Recovery
(c)  Senior-Level Managers and Professionals
(1)  Advanced Management Skills (i.e., managing people)
(2)  Strategic Planning
(3)  Advanced Foreign Exchange Management
(4)  Developing Written Policies
(5)  Advanced Credit Analysis
(6)  Advanced Asset and Liability Management/Treasury
(7)  Advanced International Banking
(8)  Establishing an Effective Loan Review System
(9)  Establishing an Effective Audit System
(10)  Management Informatio.i Systems
(11)  Financial Planning and Budgeting
(12)  Human Resource Management
(13)  Establishing an Adequate Loan Loss Reserve
(14)  Capital Planning
(15)  Loan Portfolio Management
(d)  Directors
(1)  Duties and Responsibilities of Directors
(2)  Strategic Planning
(3)  External and Tnternal Audit
(4)  Banking Laws and Regulations
8.         In addition, specialized courses are recommended for
professionals engaged in law, research, training, and other fields. For
legal staff, courses concerning the legal aspects of debt recovery, project
procurement and contract negotiation, international financing sources and
techniquies, public and parastatal enterprises, loan negotiation and
renegotiation, foreign direct investment and joint venture negotiation,
etc. are recommended. For research staff, courses in advanced research
techniques are recommended. For instructors, train the trainer seminars
are suggested.
Teaching Aids, Reference Materials, and Equipment
9.        Teaching aids, reference materials and equipment are needed to
support training activities. These include audio visual aids, overhead
projectors, microcomputers, slide projectors, video equipment, copying
machines, stationery, textbooks, and library facilities. Motor vehicles
are needed to transport instructors and students to training facilities.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 6
Ghana Bankers' Institute
10.       The Ghana Institute of Bankers' educational program seeks to
provide the appropriate academic foundation for a professional-oriented
career and a professional qualification designed to improve job performance
and demonstrate a commitment to the banking profession.
11.       The banking qualification is in two parts.  The Stage 1
examination covers English, economics, the structure of accounts, general
principles of law, and elements of banking. The Stage 1 examination is
administered locally. The Stage 2 qualification covers banking law,
monetary economics, accountancy, investment, the nature of management, the
finance of international trade, and the practice of banking (parts 1 and
2). The Stage 2 qualification is administered from London by the British
Institute of Bankers.
12.       Part-time evening classes are held at three locations:  Accra,
K'umasi, and Tema. Self-study and correspondence courses are other options
available to students trying to acquire the knowledge to pass the
qualifying examinations. However, a lack of textbooks, student materials,
and the high-cost of correspondence courses make the last two approaches
less effective than part-time evening classes.
13.       To strengthen the work of the Institute in providing banking
education, the following technical assistance program is suggested:
(a) Revision of the course curriculum and examination syllabus to
reflect local needs, changes in the operating environment, and
recent developments and technological advances in the industry.
(b) Training of tutors and examiners as part of a program to localize
the Stage 2 qualifying examination.
(c) Financial support for the purchase of textbooks and reference
materials for students.
(d) Library facilities and associated equipment, textbooks,
periodicals, and reference materials.
(e) Instructional aids including video equipment, overhead
projectors, copying machines, microcomputers, printing equipment,
and motor vehicles to transport instructors and students.
C.   Technical Assistance Program Cost Estimates
Capital ExDenditures
14.  (a)  The cost of teaching aids, textbooks, reference materials,
overhead projectors, slide projectors, video equipment, copying
machines, microcomputers, and printing equipment is estimated at
US$90,000 for 1988 and US$45,000 for 1989. The amounts are
allocated between the Bank of Ghana (two-thirds), as coordinator



- 54-                            ANNEX 3-6
Page 5 of 6
for the managerial and professional level bankers' training
programs, and the Ghana Institute of Bankers (one-third).
(b) The cost of stocking a reference library with appropriate
reference materials, textbooks, library equipment is estimated at
US$50,000 per year for two years. The library facility will be
maintained and operated by the Ghana Institute of Bankers.
However, the facility will be available for use by all banking
professionals.
(c) The cost of motor vehicles is estimated at US$100,000. These
vehicles are to be used to transport instructors and students to
classes. The estimate provides for three buses (allocated to the
National Savings and Credit Bank, the Ghana Institute of Bankers,
and the Bank of Ghana) and one automobile (allocated to the Ghana
Institute of Bankers).
Recurrent Expenditures
15.  (a)  Foreign instructors are expected to expend 20 man-months per year
conducting courses in banking at the professional and
managerial level.  Salaries are estimated at US$120,000 per year.
Travel is also estimated at US$120,000 per year. Annual
subsistence expenses are estimated at 8,400,000 cedis.
(b) Provision is made for eight persons from each of the nine largest
banks and the Bank of Ghana to attend seminars abroad each year.
Fees are estimated at US$120,000, travel at US$160,000, and
subsistence at US$170,000 per year.
(c) Provision is made for three persons from the Ghana Institute of
Bankers to attend seminars abroad each year for the purposes of
acquiring the skills necessary to upgrade the course syllabus,
becoming acquainted with recent developments in the banking
industry, and training tutors and examiners in order to localize
the Stage 2 qualifying examination. Costs are estimated at
US$4,500 for fees, US$6,000 for travel, and US$6,300 for
subsistence.
16.       A budget for technical assistance program cost estimates follows
on the subsequent page.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 6 of 6
BUDGET FOR BANKERS' TRAINING
1088                            1989                           Tota I
Man  nths  Foro ion L LI         M  Mons  orin  Local           Man  Month  Fraion  Leal
6     cedia                     O    Cedie                     O    Cedia
A. Capi 1l Expenditures
Teaching Aide,                             30,000                         30,000                           60,000
Books, reference  ateriale,
clfa room aioe, etc.                     60,000                         15,000                          76,000
Reference Library                          50,000                         50,000                          100,000
Motor Vehicles                            100                                                             100 -000
TOTAL CAPITAL  tP8lQrT1RES                240,000       0                 95,000       0                  335,000      0
B. Recurrent Expenditures
eiminars Hold                 41.5                              41.5                            63.0
Fees                                      124,500                         124,500                        249,000
Tra,el                                    166,000                         166.000                         332,000
Subaistance                   -           17        __ _        -         176Z.3                 _       362.600
41.6       466.600C         O      1.       466.800        90,0 8300J 
Forpian Inatructorm           20.0                              20.0                            40.0
Salaries                                   120,000                        120,000                        240.000
Trawet                                     120,000                        120,000                        240,000
Subsistnce                     _                    8.400. O       _               8.400.000 4an0                  1,80_ -  0-0
m0          240.000 8.400.        20.       240.000 8L400.       40        480.OCO  16,800.000
TOTAL RECUET EXP8IMTURES   61.5            706,600  8,400,000    61.5     706,B00  8,400,000   123.0   1,415,600  16,500.000
TOTAL SCPEIrTLRES             61.5         946,600  6,400,000    61.5     801.800  6.400,000   123.0   1,748,600  16,900,OOO



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-7
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A BANK RESTRUCTURING ADVISER
1.        The adviser will be stationed in Accra, Ghana, for a period of 18
months (consecutively, or in 3 separatt semesters) to work as a resource
person with the Technical Committee in charge of monitoring the proper
implementation of the bank restructuring program. The latter is a
Government entity in the process of being established, the core of which
would comprise senior officials from the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, and which will be charge of directing, coordinating and
overseeing the implementation of an ongoing program for restructuring the
Ghanaian banking sector. He will:
help the Technical Committee design mechanisms to
systematically deal with insolvent bar,ks in terms of both
financial and managerial restructuring;
assist in establishing the regulatory and institutional
framework to that effect;
develop a package of policies and procedures to restructure
insolvent institutions through remedial management measures,
removal of existing losses, liquidation of bad assets and
access of new shareholders to ownership;
help the Technical Committee and/or the management of
individual banks prepare, review and refine specific action
programs and/or restructuring proposals; and advise the
management of the banks undergoing restructuring in their
initial implementation stage; and
assist the authorities in generally overseeing the
implementation of the bank restructuring program and
monitoring its progress.
AF4IE
April 1988



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
Background
1.        As evidence appears in the partial results already available on
banks' audits, a large number of Ghanaian enterprises, particularly those
in the industrial sector, have greatly suffered from the adverse effect of
massive devaluations, high inflation rates, trade liberalization, reduction
in effective protection rates, and other reforms of the adjustment program,
which are expected to result in the medium-term in the development of a
stronger, more efficient and more competitive corporate sector. The sharp
deterioration in the financial situation of enterprises, however, and its
strong bearing on the health of the financial system, justifies the
consideration in the proposed project of the initialization of a program
for restructuring Ghanaian enterprises in financial distress. The basic
objective of such a component will be to offer a comprehensive package to
financially-distressed enterprises with clear medium-term prospects for
profitable operations. Although the responsibility for rehabilitation/
restructuring should rest in principle with the banks, the magnitude and
intricacy of the problem and the current weak status of most financial
institutions will require both impdortant financial resource and high-level
technical expertise, and might justify the establishment of a specialized
financial corporation through which corporate restructuring proposals would
be prepared, negotiated and implemented. An assessment of the need for a
corporate restructuring program and proposals on its composition, covering
in particular the conceptualization and design of the required regulatory
and institutional support, would be undertaken under this project. A
preliminary study is expected to be initiated during project preparation
under PPF financing (Annex 3-8). if the conditions are felt propitious,
this assessment would lead to the undertaking of a pilot program with a
modest initial-funding in the vicinity of US$15 million (funded by the
Government and by the banks).
Some Elements of Enterprise Restructuring
2.        Objectives and Investments.  The basic objective of enterprise
restructuring is to offer comprehensive financial packages linking future
debt repayments to the cash-generation capacity of each individual firm.
Typically, a financial package could include: (a) debt swapping with
equity or quasi-equity instruments such as convertible debentures or
non-voting preferred shares; (b) rescheduling of the remaining debt over
longer maturities; (c) capitalization of interests; (d) write-off of part
of accumulated penalties and other charges; (e) injection of fresh money
for working capital; and (f) investments in new fixed assets. There would
be as well a need to provide tech-nical -assstance b^th tc ba.ks and to
enterprises for preparing and implementing restructuring proposals.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 3
3.        Conditions for RestructurinR.  Restructuring should be selective
and confined to firms temporarily experiencing financial distress (usuelly
on account of over indebtedness) but with clear medium-term prospects for
profitable operation, a- demonstrated by a thorough appraisal and supported
by a specific, restructuring proposal.  The latter would contain four basic
elements: (a) a management plan, including any organizational arrangements
as deemed necessary; (b) a marketing plan, including any product redesign;
(c) a production plan linked to the marketing plan, including either
curtailment or fuller utilization of capacity; and (d) a financial workout
plan that would reflect the elements listed in paragraph 3, as well as
internal measures to reduce financial burden such as (i) streamlining of
administrative expenses and (ii) sale of non-essential assets.
Involvement of Ghanaian Banks
4.        The responsibility for rehabilitation/restructuring of
enterprises should rest partially with the Ghanaian commercial/development
banks, who will have to take the lead, because of their knowledge of client
companies and their interest in seeking to improve their own loan
portfolios. The financial strengthening of the banks will ultimately
critically depend on the financial condition of borrowing enterprises.
However, if left to their own devices and to act individually, the Ghanaian
banks may not be able to do much in relation to the magnitude of the
problem, the resolution of which requires both financial resources and
technical expertise.
Institutional and Financial Arrangements
5.        Ir light of the foregoing, there appears to be a need for
exploring appropriate support measures at the country level, both
institutional and financial, to supplement and coordinate the efforts to be
undertaken by individual banks.
6.        Consideration would have to be given to some institutional
framework through which corporate restructuring proposals would be
designed, appraised, reviewed, negotiated, financed and implemented. One
alternative would be to set up a new specialized financial corporation, or
some trust fund, to be funded by GOG/BOG (through possible external
resources as well as domestic), with some participation by the Ghanaian
banking system. The new entity, acting as an apex institution, would
oversee the overall program as well as refinance (including the acquisition
of the equity in the enterprises to be restructured held by the banks as a
result of debt/equity swap arrangements) up to a fixed percentage
individual of restructuring proposals submitted by the banks;
7.        The financial requirements for restructuring Ghanaian enterprises
are not presently known, and will be difficult to determine with any degree
of accuracy. The completion of the banks' audits will give an assessment
of their loan portfolios, and therefrom some idea of the (maximum) extent
of rsruorain rcshl  be sr_r t, a    athndgh, as nl ted  earlie   entps   wIt
restructuring should be selected and limited to those enterprises with



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 3
clearly demonstrated prospects. The initial funding for the pilot program
should therefore be relatively modest to be replenished in due course
assuming successful implementation of the program.
8.        Technical assistance would be needed to help set up and operate
the Apex institution including provision for consultancy services to assist
in the preparation/appraisal/review of enterprise workout proposals.
Initially, expert assistance would be needed to help conceptualize the
program (which is touched upon here only in a preliminary way) and to draw
up operating guidelines and procedures. Consideration would also be given
to whether there is a need to proceed first with a preliminary study to
assess the impact of recent adjustment policies (including devaluations and
trade liberalization) on enterprises, and the extent of rehabilitation
investments and financial restructuring needed. The preliminary study is
expected to be initiated during project preparation under PPF financing.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-9
GHANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
Summary of Costs
UsV            Cedis
('000)
1.   Bank of Ghana (Annex 3-3)                  850,000          14,250
2.   Credit Clearing House (Annex 3-4)           150,000          4,500
3.   Institute of Chartered
Accountants (Annex 3-5)                    700,000         12,500
4.   Training of Bankers (Annex 3-6)          1,750,000          16,900
5.   Consolidated Discount House and              75,000          1,500
Study on Capital Harkets (Annexes 3-1
and 3-2)
6.   Corporate Restructuring (Study)             300,000          6,000
7.   Bank Reatructuring (Adviser)               225,000           6,750
8.   Exchange Risk (Study)                        75,000          1,500
9.   Contingency and Others                      450,000         12,600
Total                                    4,575,000         76,500
(Total USS equivalent)                  (4,575,000)      (425,000)   (5,000,000)
The project would finance 100l of total expenditures.



ANNEX 4
- 61 -                              Page 1 of 13
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC  PLANNING
P.O. BOX M.40
ACCRA
...,,,^,_SEC/FP/036 
__,,,1Ith wMarchL_ ,88
r,. 5E V. _.tL _                        iLs Of Q&=
I4R. MAMIER B. CckA.iL,
Jn4hpTIONAL BP%K FMR 1zT4'iR=ICh AND DLV t'JA(I,
118B h. MlEEM N.li.,
wLsi(N  D.C.,
U.S.A.
Dear 4r. President,
PE: FINAI CIAL SK'IOf A  U61t.k   PJ31
SrAnAbI CF FINANCIAL PCLLCY
As part of its Lom=c hecovery Prograa,  ne G-verr;  Il ut.rl  iS
unertaking a prograu ot inAtituticaia arn policy reforLs of th.e fixancial
system.  Ihis statent outlines the cb)ectivws Di such an Action Program ano
the framk  within iwich the refris have b3en formulated. Ar,
imlemntaticn schedule for the main policy acti,=s is annexec. The
Government of Ghana requests from the Internaticra_ Develocment Association
ecoiceration of a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit to s4pport the
imlpementaticn of this Acticn Prcgram.
COJEMIVES AND PL OF ThE PKa,M
1.   A well functicning and broaaly based financial sector, with an
effective banking system at its oore, is nece"sary to s4pport the structural
adjustment effort.  Yet Ghana's financial system ib ftragile.  It is still at
an early stage of its develcpzent ana is handicapped by significant
ustituticnal weaknesses, limited mobilizaticn of financial resources, and
deficiencies in credit allocaticn, all of which have constrained the supply of
credit to the proauctive sectors. Rural areas in particular have suffered
fro inadequate creo.it and financial services. Formal financial
intermadiaticn is low, with the troad mmey to (UP ratio averaging around 17
per cent in l986 (after tailing to a lcw of 13 par cent in 1984 fram a level
of well over 20 per cent during the 1970s). Zbyriacs of mmey lenders, thrift
grcups, trusts and other unregulated financial agencies with cnly limited
interacticns with the forma.l system, exist all over the country and it is to
these that a large part of the pcpulation turn to fcr financial intermediaticn.
2.   The Govexrnamnt of Ghana has oeciced to address these hamdicaps. The
Governrwt's acticn program aims to strengthen financial institut ons, expand
the soe ot the formal financial system, and iprcove the efficiency of
financial inte.rm iatian in Ghana. Eq*haasis is plAzed cn priorLty policy and
institutional retcrms necessary to coeroome the key constraints or
imperfections in the financial systom which aue hirceriny the flcw of funds to
the eficient prcductive sect3rs, thus limiting :.nvetment and proouction
responses to the angoing adjustzents ot trade and incentive policies. The
restorea health of financial instituticrs is of Nvetiridir"  cactYn.  The
retrms requirea to met these ains are grouped wreAtr iozr pra iziyl lhaacm&
(i)  enhanced scunaness of bankinX institutior,s 1kuoxuh an izproved regulatory
tramwork, strengthenec banking supervisicn by thie Bank of Ghana, and the



- 62 -                           ANN EX 4
Page 2 of 13
2.
restructuring of financially distressed bankss (ii) improvec mobilizaticn and
allocation of financial resources including develcpment of money ana security
wukets: and (iii) improved mechanisms for rural finance.
3. The necessity to ensure that the coverage of the initial acticn
jprogra is of manageable dimensions has meant that important mecium and
long-term issues related to, for example, integration of the regulated and
unregulated financial markets, and the basic structure of the financial
systems have conly received partial attention; these issues will form an
iportant part of the on-going reviews of the financial sector.  however, the
overall framework within which the priority reforms have been have been
formulated envisages a move towards a considerably less regulated and more
coapetitive and efficient financial system, with the Bank of Ghana's principal
role being to effectively manage key monetary aggregates, ensure ccupliance
uith banking regulations, and mmitor the health of the financial  X
instituticns. Banking prudence, institutional viability, and reasonable
cperating autcnoKy must be raintained by banks, while at the same time they
^uit be responsive to market forces and sensitive to national develcpment
priorities. Reliance would be placed cn a relatively free functioning market
for the channelling of credit, althcugh limited Government intervention may be
necessary where market failures prevent funds from reaching disadvantaged
grou)s.
4.   The action program covers a two year period and will be oontinually
revised to reflect the progress in implementation, assessments of the impact
of the reforms and the results of the various daigno6tic studies ana related
follow-up being unaertaken. It will also be revised, where apprcpriate, to
incorporate the findings of the on-going reviews of issues which have not yet
been adequately addressed. It will thus be a 'rolling,' program, extending
over a nimber of years. A high level Financial Sector Adjustment Committee
chairec by the Secretary tor Finance and Eomnoic Planning, with the Governor
of the Bank of Ghana as Vice-Chairman, and reporting to the Chairman,
Ccmuittee of Secretaries, will oversee the izplementation of the program.
Enhanced Soundness of Banking Institutions .
5.   The supervisory functions ot the Bank of Ghana will be substantially
strengthened so that it can carry out effectively its role of monitoring and
preserving the health of the financial system., However, the Bank of Ghana
will ensure that a careful balance is maintained between sound and effpctive
banking supervision, and without undue interference in the day-to-day
cperations of the respective banks. The supervisory functions of the Bank of
Ghana will apply equally to all banks and ncn-bank financial institutioins.
In the case of rural and specialized banks, aspects of the supervision -
though not comprcaised - may take on slightly different forms (e.g. reporting
formats).
6.   The effectiveness of banking supervision is largely dependent ypon the
strengthening of staff capabilities within the, relevant departments of the
Bank of Ghana, updating of and adherence to procedures, enforcement of
existing laws and regulations, logistical rupport, and encouragement and
assistance given to individual banks to imp ove their own internal controls.
Although the Banking Act and its regulations kjrovides a generally acceptable
framework ana legal basis for regulating and supe.cvising the banking system,
.../3



- 63 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 13
3.
amwndmfts relating to prudential aspects, inclucing capital aceauac'y,
portfolio classification, exposure limits, and auciiting ai reporting
standards amd requirements for bancks will be undertaken.
Banking Restructuring
7.   A large nmber of Ghanaiani banks are facing severe financial
difficulties, which threaten their liquidity and solvency ana thereby the
stability of the whole financial system. Althcugh this is particularly true
of the three develcpment banks, most camiercial banks are also affected.
Several tactors omtributed to this situation, inclL4ing inadequate banking
auspervision by the authorities, inapprcpriate sevtcz policies and regulations
affecting the operation of the banks, as well as the rapid depreciation of the
cedi in recent years, which increased the indebtedness of the corporate
sector, reduced its capacity to service its debts tc the banks, and
consequently weakened the asset portfclio ot the 1wnking system. Pcxr
management has also played a major role in this respect.
8.    The Government realizes the need to restructure the distlessec
Ghanaian banks with a view to restoring their finisnc:.al Ejvd operationa.i
viability.  As a first step, special diagnostic stuc;.es (aucits) bv
international cansulting firms have been carried out for -he three aewelopment
banks and most of the oomnercial D3nks, to determ:.-ne the..::
financial/cperational Londition and the apprc.x iate r.easu_e. rELu1ire  tc
remedy their situation.  These audits will be subject to :ystematic review by
the Ghanaian authorities in consultaticn with lDk. The first ca;.n cb-jective
of such reviews will be to ascertain the mEignitLude c,t the financial deficits
of the individual banks (and by extension, of the banking system overall) ano
to decide on an appropriate future oourse of action (e.g. merger,
recapitalization, restructuring) for each bank tc be agreed with IDA, based on
a realistic assessment of its prosVects for future %-:.able financial operation
as well as of the role it can be expected to play within the reformed Ghanaian
banking system. The seccnd main cbjective of this review process will be to
decide cn the apprcpriate modalities (such as in-ect.ion of fresh money;
=nversion/rescheduling of debts cwea to Government/HCG and external lenders
by the banks: transfer to the Government of ncrk-performin; loarns to state
enterprises and/or guaranteed by Government) for :-he ccmplete resolution of
these deticits, so as to restore the solvency of baxnking institutions. Any
decision to reacapitalize/restructure a distressei bank for future ceratic-
(beyond the mere settlement of its accumulated de.licits) -ould Le also subject
to busir*ss projections cvver_ ..g not less than a 5 year period, based on
explicit and realistic assLiWtions, indicating the banUk'' prospective capacity
to cperate profitably on c<-Ax-titive terms.  The dlec.ision to restructure a
bank wculd then be reflected in a comprehensive restz:ucturing plan specifying
all necessary arrangements (financial, organizational, managerial) to ensure
the bank:s successful rehabilitation.  This restruclaring plan, wihen
available, will be jointly reviewed and agreed wi'th IDA, and subisquently
embodied in performance ontracts between the Govern.nent of Ghana and each of
the banks setting out the respective commitments a.l cbligations of the
Government and of the bank concerneo.



- 64 -                            ANNEX  4
Page 4 of 13
4.
9.    It is the Government's intenticn to carry out the restructuing of the
banking system in aooardance with the overall thrust of the Acticn Program and
bound banking principles, scme of which are listed below. First, financial
restructuring (that is, the injection of fresh money into a bIan to clean up
its balacoe sheet and to recapitalize it for future operation) will not be
attempted in isolaticn frxm a simultaneous or prior managerial/organizatical
restructuring that would ensure the proper use of the new resources and mare
generally the rno-recurrence of past mistakes. Second, all restructured banks
will have independent, professional management with autornoy in day-to-day
affairs and investment decisicrs. To this end, qualified managers will be
vought as necessary. The managezent of the banks will be accountable for
their perfcrmance. Even fcr thYose banks with predoinant state ownership, the
Board of Directors would islude apprcpriate members frc. the private sector
so as to broaoen its range of expertise and enhance its business outlook.
Third, the Govenment would be prepared if warranted to consider gra&ally
reducing its share cwnersLip (anm hence, its managerial responsibility) in
banking instituti(xns, by seeking significant private Ghanaian participation
alcng with foreigy. participaticn in the restructured banks.  This would
include, in partic.lar, the participaticn of develcpent-oriented
m.ltilaterial anrder bilaterial organizations. SubDect to proper safeguards,
the entry into the banking system of new banks with private conership ana
managemet, both dcxrestic ana foreign, will be encouraged. Fourth, pending
the outccme of the cngoing banking restructuring process, appropriate
safeguard meaures will be taken where necessary to arrest the further
financial deterioratSoin of banks, includipg the discotinuation/curtailment
of new lending (whick is to be oone only on a stringent basis), utmost
onncentration on loan recoveries, reduction in operating costs, reconciliation
of acc=its where inoonsistencies/d-screpancies were identified by the
audita. Fifth and lastly, the basic objective of banking restructuring,
sistent witah the Action Program, is to foster the emergence and growth of a
sound, dynamic banking system irn which all banks, irrespective of ownership,
develcpment or commercial, will compete frcely and operate by the rules of the
market.
Corporate Sectar fZestructurinr
10.     A large number of Ghanaians enterprises, including those in the
industrial sector, are in urgent..need of physical Eus well as financial
restructuri9g.  Several have been unable to respin  to the new incentive
policies of the Government because of their fragile financial pusition.
Crippled by large debts, in many oases denoimated in foreign currency, their
debt-service cbligations have mcEnted rapidly as the cedi has decpreciated.
The basic cbjective of enterprise restructuring is to offer a coLprehensive
program including a financial package linxing future debt repayments to the
cash generatioin capacity of individual enterprises. Significant managerial
and cperaticnal restructuring would have to be onsidered as well.
festructuring will be selective anar ocrifiner to those enterprises te    arily
in financial distress but with clear medium-term prospects for profitable
cperaticn. Corporate restructuring will require the involvement of the
Ghanaian banks, because they know their clients well, and because they have an
interest in improving their own loan portfolios. However, given the limited
expertise in the Ghanaian banks at present, the Go,ernm^nt will give
ccnsideraticn to a program or framework at the national level that woula
provide both the requisite technical expertise and sq)plementary financial
.... /4



-65 -                              ANN EX  4
Page ; of 13
rescurces (possibly in the form ot a refinancing mechanism, or a trust fund
for equity participaticn). In light of the toregoing, the Government would
areciate IDA's assistance in unaertaking a study that would (i) provide an
up-to-date assessment of the restucturing requirements, both physical and
financial, of the Ghanaian industrial sector, covering major sub-sectors, and
Lndustrial SoEs as well as private firms, and (ii) recocmend an appropriate
jrcgram (institutional framework, methodology, mechanisms, guidelines) for
corporate reoonstructuring. This study, upon its ocmpleticn, will be reviewed
by the Government and IDA, as a basis for future action.
Izproved hobilizaticn and Allocation of Financial Resources
11.     In September 1987, the Government liberializea all interest rates on
deposita and credits, except rates for savings aeposits which were liberalized
in February 1988. l he Government will agree with IDA by February 1989 upon a
timetable for the phased decontrol of banking charges. Moreover, the
Government will undertake parallel actions to further enhace banking
cofidence.  Ihe increased sounrnness of the financial institutions emerging
fram the improved supervision of the Bank of Ghara will play a positive role
in this.
12.     hithin the Government's overall ceilings on credit expansion, ana
tollowing the full liberalization of crecit rates, further steps have ben
takien by aismantling in February 1986 sectoral targets on lenoing; targets for
lending to agriculture will be reviewed by December 1989 in the context of the
prcposed rural finance subsector project in particular, ana the overall
financial sector program, with a view to taking appropriate actions. Special
credit schemes and budgeted credit subslaies for disadvangea groups will not
be used except under exceptional circumstances where market failures are
clearly indicated arxa mLre appropriate alternatives are not available to
ccrrect them. Interest rates charged to beneficiaries unrer special credit
schemes/lines of credit will largely be basea on prevailing market rates.
13.     Ihe initiatives in the above areas rest principally with the
Government.  Haever, banks will also neeo to take  tlementary actions.  For
exa ple, they will need to diversify financial instruments aimed at custamer
services.  Banks will also need to adopt appropriate measures to improve
overall efficiency thrcugh rationalization of their branch networks (where
necessary), improvements in their slstems and procedures (in particular for
internal controls and acounting, nr-performing _oans and other cbligations),
and staff training.  The Government will provide sxpportive actions in these
areas where apprcpriate.
14.        The Government has supported the initiative to establish a discount
hcse by the banks and insurance companies as an initial step towaras the
develcpznent of a mmey market. The gradual building up of its activities will
be carefully plannea in orcer to ensure a manageable and stable development,
while ensuring that it has no undue exp;osure at the initial stages.  In
aoditicn tc uringing together into a single market those institutions with
cash surpluses or deficits and thus promotin% a mcre intensive use of cash
balances in the econmcy, the discount house will allow aemand anc supply to
determine short-term interest rates.



- 66 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 13
6.
15.    The concept of establishing a capital market in Accra, probably
through the Accra Securities Market (ASK), has ben fostered for so time by
the fact that a growing demand exists for such services from potential
investors and corporate issues. As it is necessary for the foundation of a
capital market to be as secure as possible, the BOG will assess the demand
for, and supply of quoted securities covering the primary and secondary
markets. In crder to instill confidence in both suppliers and users of long
term debt and equity finance, the Government will support the development of
both an adequate package of incentives, as well as a suitable regulatory and
instituticna1 framework to prevent financial abuse. In addition, the BCG with
the assistance of IDA will assess the suitablility of a specialized
institution providing venture and develzpment capital.
Improved Mechanisms for Rural Finance
16.    All banking institutions have a crucial role to play in rural'
finance. However, the efficient develcpment of the rural banking system will
form the backbone of the efforts to ensure appropriate support to agriculture
and other rural pursuits. Tne focus of these efforts will be on supervision,
strengthening their cperational performance, and raticnalizing and expanding
the sccpe of the system. However, the system must be allowed to evolve at its
own natural pace with the minimum of Government intervention but with the
maximum of Government support. While the ccamercial banks will be encouraged
to expand their rural branch network and local lending of deposits, this
shcuild not be at the expense of the efficiency of their overall cperations.
17.    A aetailed review of the rural financial subsector incluaing the rural
banking system will be underteken over the course of the next six months with
the assistance of the World Bank and other multilateral/bilateral agen:ies.
Detailed actions to aeal specifically with rural financing issues will emerge
from this review, particularly means of assuring the availability of finance
for long gestation viable activities.
Outcome of the Program
18.    The Government believes that the implementation of the action program
will result in a sound, efficient and diversified 'inancial system, capable of
mcbilizing both shbrt and long term resources ani allocating them
efficiently. Ihe financial system will be able to support and facilitate
investment and production responses by the private sector to the on-going
reforms under the structural adjustment process. A dynamic and responsive
financial system will also permit mcre effective maietary management of the
ac--!my. However, it is recognized that reforms in the financial system will
not in themselves lead to increased investment ana production. The ongoin%
trade and incentive policy reforms under the Structural Adjustment Program
(Being supported by an IDA Structural Aajustment Credit) are necessary to
highlight growth cpportunities, while parallel actions are required to ensure
that the cperating climate fcr enterprises does not hinder the conversion of
these opportunities to investment and productioz  dacisicns.
./7



-67-                            ANNEx 4
Page 7 of 13
7.
Finrancial Reuirements of the Program
19.     Preliminary estimates of the financial requiremi1ts to implement the
principel aspects of the acticn program are in the order of US$325 million;
this estimate will be revised as the detailed actions are firmed up and when
the findings of the specific diagnostic studies have been reviewed. The
aunmt will need to cover restructuring requirements of most of the commercial
banks and develcp0ent finance institutions, foreign exchange losses linkea to
lerning by these instituticns which have to be assumed by the Government and
BDnk of Ghana, as well as technical assistance, logistical support, instituicn
building and seed funding fcr venture capital. lhe Government will
substantially contribute through apprcpriate financial means to the
restructuring of distressed institutions; it is anticipateu however, that a
significant part of the restructuring requirements will be met througb equity
cotributions by nrn-govenment parties.
20.     In view of the initiatives taken by Ghana in the formulation and
izplementaticn of the Initial Action Program of reforms of the Financial
system the Government requests your favourable oonsideraticn for the extension
of a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit in the amount of at least US$100
million.  The Government would also appreciate Iflf assistance in orgqizing
cofinancing from other multilateral and bilateral sources to suppirt the
program.
PM>      ~      EOF ithfull,
PND 3U.:MEAfiY F0E F-INANCE AND



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of la
GHANA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR POLICY ACTIONS
Party
Action                                   Responsible             Date of Implomentation
I.   MEASURES TO ENHANCE SOUNDNESS OF
BANKING INSTITUTIONS
A.   PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS
1.  (i)  Establish a minimum capital                    BOG/UFEP                1-5
adequacy ratio for prudential purposes;
(ii) increase minimum amount of paid-up                                         Agreement with IDA on draft
capital to establish o bank (to bo                                               legislation:  July 1988
revisod from time-to-time by BOG); (iii)                                        Enactment:  February 1989
apply capital adequacy provisions to                                            Implemontation:  December 1989
development finance institutions engaged
in commercial banking; (iv) limit
dividends by banks that do not met
capital adequacy guidelines; and (v)
empower BOG to mandote greater capital
for prudential purposes for individual
banks on case-by-case basis.
2.  Require dovelopment finance                         BOG/MFEP
institutions, where engaged in commercial
banking, to provide for statutory
resorves of at looet the levels required
of commercial banks.
S.  Place limits on secured as well ao                  BOG/MFEP
unsecured loans to any single borrower
(individual or enterprise). Place
strictor limits on secured as well as
unsecured loans to companios in which a
bank's director hoo an interest exceeding
a certain percentage.
4.  Review and increase penalties for                   BOG/MFEP
violation of banking regulations.
5.  Require audited reports on bank.                    BOG/MFEP
submitted to BOG to be in long form
format in accordance with other BOG
guidelinoe, basod substantially on
international standards.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 1S
Party
Action                            Fbesensible              Date of Implenmetation
6. BOo to require banks to classify                      OOiMFEP                6-7
their portfolios according to criteris                                          1l)  Appeointmet of t e
for substandard, doubtful, and lose                                             technical advisers In Bank
assets (to be reported on a periodic                                            supervision:  March 1986
basis, together with the specific
provislons established).  Thes  standards                                       (ii)  Recrultmant of
to be developed with the assistance of an                                       international accounting firm:
International accounting firm.  Implemen-                                      March 1966
tation of the full range of rmsdial
actions to *wait the appointment nf two                                         (lii)  Agre_mnt with IDA on
technical advisors in bank supervision,                                         guidelines and reporting
requirements: July 19S6
(iv) Reviorw iplemsntation
progross: February 1969
7.  Introduce lmproved reporting                        BOC
requirements from banks to the 800,
offsito analytical capabilities and
indicators, as well as logistical
aupport.
S.  Support establishment of a credit                   BOo                     Torse of reference and
cloaring houso for banks.                                                       Identifieation of consultant
satisfactory to IDA: December
94n
Establish CCH:  December 19
B. BANINO SUPERVISION
1.  Enforce, through guidelines and                     BOO                    Part of restructuring of banks.
monitoring action, internal controls and
in-housa audits of banks.
2.  (i)  Issue mandatory minimum terms of                                       Agreement with IDA on draft
reference expanding scope of externol                                           banking regulations:  July 1966
audits of banks, (ii) hold periodic
oiacussiono between BOG and the auditors.                                       Issuance:  February 199
Implementation: December 1969
S.  Strengthen examination methodology                  BOC/NFEP                Drafting of Examination manual
and skills.  Review staffing needa of                                           and preparation of training
BDG'a Examination Department, incentives                                        programs:  February 1909
and staff training, and set up a
permanent training program for examiners.
4.  Establiah computerized system for                   BOo                     Implementation prior to
prudential returns from banks and analyte                                       February 1969
the financial situotion of banka based on
a set of performance indicators. Provide
feedback to bankers.



- 70 -
AMEX I
Pase 1 of 15
Party
Action                                   Reseonsible                Date of Implementation
S.  Draw up and implemwnt an annual                     Boo                     Satisfactory roview by YDA of
inspection plan. including full and                                             implementation:  February 1969
targetted examinations (oeach bank to be
visited at lease once a year).
6.  Ropeat external audito of banks with                 oa                     Satisfactory review by IDA of
assistance of International auditors,                                           impleentation:  February 1969
C. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
1.  Institute of Chartered Accountant*                  BOG/ICA                Recruit technical assistance
(ICA) has agreed to be the focal point                                         and initiate training program
for efforts to upgrade and strengthen the                                       In agre me nt with IDA:
occounting profossion in Ghana.                                                 Fobruary 1989
II.  BANKINa RESTRUCTURING
1.  Carry out full diagnostic studies by                BOG                    Completed
international auditing firms.
2.  Implemnt safoguard measures to                      BOG                     April/May 1988
prevent further deterioration.
S.  scruitment of an adviser on bonking                BOo                     Soptember 1968
restructuring.
4.  Formulation of a framework and                      BOG                     February 19f9
timetable satisfactory to IDA specifying
tho modalities for the restructuring of
banks, in particular (i) masxures for
dealing ,ith banks portfolio of
non-performing loans, including loans to
state-owned enterprises. (ii)
roscheduling/conversion of Government's
loans to banks.
6. Agreement with IDA on specific                       GOG/BOG                Agreemnt with IDA by October
proposals and torgets for a reduction of                                        198t on a program for reduction
banks' non-performing portfolio                                                 of at loost SOX by February
(Including off-balance sheet items).                                           1989.  Satisfactory review by
IDA on progress of implementa-
tion and agreement on reduction
of remainder:  D ceber 199
S.  Firalization of specific                            OG/80/                Agreemnt with IDA on plans for
restructuring plans acceptable to IDA for               Banks                  coemercial banks accounting for
comercial banks,                                                                at least SON of coemercial
banks assets February 1999--
satisfactory rev;ew by IDA of
implementation progross:
December 1909



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Pag. 11 of 18
Party
Action                                  Responsible            Date of ImDlem_ntation
Agreement with IDA on plans for
remaining comorcial banks:
December 1989
7.  Finalization of specific plans                     GOG/BOG/               Agreement with IDA on plans for
acceptable to IDA for development banks.               Banks                  banks accounting for at loeat
SOX of DFC'o assets: February
1989. Satisfactory review by
IDA on implementation progress:
December 1989.
Agreement with IDA on plan. for
remaining development banks:
December 1989.
7.  Undertake study on needs for                       GOC/BOG/               Completion of study by February
corporate sector restructuring.                        Banks                  1989 according to terms of
reforence agreed with IDA.
S.  Carry out study on exchange risk                   BOG                    Completion:  February 1989
protection.
III. DEPOSIT MOBILIZATION AND CREDIT
ALLOCATION
A. DEPOSIT MOBILIZATION
1.  Review provisions in laws and                      PNDC
regulations relating to disclosure of
information.
2.  Allow banks to sot scale of charges;               BOG                    Agroement with IDA on timetable
undertako survey of charges on a                                              for decontrol:  February 1969
semi-annual basis and publish results.
S.  Amend regulations to permit banks to               BOG                    Circular to be issued by July
vory working days and business hour. of                                       1988
branches.
4. Review system for collecting and
clearing chequoe.
5.  Allow banks to set own interest                    BOG                    Effective
differential on demand, savings, and time
deposits.
S.  Design and introduce package of                    BOG                    Effective
measures to attract emigrants
remittances.



- 72-                                              ANNEX 4
Pogo 12 of 18
Party
Action                                  Reemonsible              Date of Implem_ntation
B. CREDIT ALLOCATION
1.  Allow banks to set thoir own interest             BOO                     Effective
rates on loans.
2.  Discontinue *ectorol credit targets.                                      Sectoral ceilings discontinued.
Floor for lending to
agriculture to be reviewed by
Docs. ber 1989 with a view to
making orepropri7to revisions.
8.  Establish mchanism  and criteria for               BOG                    Task force to be established by
determining us. of special lines of                                           May 1968.
credit and other special schemes to be
used only in special circumstances.
4. Review efficacy of Credit Guarantoe                 BOG                    Schem  to be reviewed in
Scheme.                                                                       connection with forthcoming SME
project. In the meantime
C.  EFFICIENCY OF BANKING OPERATIONS                                          schem  to romnin dormant.
1.  Preparo and circulate standard s*t of             BOO                     December 1988
avorag* efficiency measures for banks.
IV. MONEY AND CAPITAL MARKETS
A. MONEY MARKET
1.  Determine modus operandi for                       CDH/BOG/GOG            Identification of consultants
Consolidated Discount House (CDH).                                            April/May 1988
Establith nature and extent of liquidity
support by BOG.  Identify prudential                                          Implemntation of an action
reporting and monitoring roquirement of                                       program agreed upon with IDA
BOG.  Define operational limits through                                       February 1969.
acceptance by CDH and BOG of a CDH
Statment of Operational Policies, to be
developed with Technical Assistance.
B. CAPITAL MARKET
1.  Conduct study of (a) investors (b)                COG/B00                 1-2
corporate issuers and (c) secondary                                           Study to be comploted on the
trading to dotermine demand.                                                  basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA prior to
2.  Review experienco in other countries,              COG/BOG/GIC            February 1969.  No major
possibly with IFC aosistance, and make                                        Governmnt initiAtive in
decision on applicability in Ghana.                                           capital market until results of
study are availablo.
S.  Dlcuss avallable lncontive., review               GOG/BOG/GIC            S-4
likoly effects, and implemnt.                                                 Implentation prior to
Docember 1969



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 18 of 18
Party
Action                                   Roesonsible             Date of Implementation
4. Develop with technical assistance, a                  C00/B04
suitable regulatory framework depending
upon outcome of study (IV.B.1)
S.  lvo financial and logistical support              WCO/80C                Recrultment of TA:  February
to Institute of Chartered Accountants                                         1969 (see I.C.1)
(ICA) to review and upgrade auditing
standards for corporato sector.
6.  Amend Social Socurity Decree                       GOG/SSNIT              Impl mentation on basis of
Regulation to allow some of social funds                                      draft roviewod by IDA February
gdnerated to be invested in long-term                                         1989
securities of credity-worthy finance
institutions and companies.



- 74 -
ANEX 6C
Pae I of 3
FIANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
THE STATUS OF SAW( GROUP OPERATIONS IN GiANA
STATEMENT OF BAW LOANS AND IDA CtEDITS (as of March 86. 1989)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                                         Amount Lees
Number        Year         Borrower              Purpose                   Conceollation       Undlaburefd !/
-------(USS million)--------
26 loans/credits fully disbursed                                               377.32
Cradits
I1f9-GH       1963     Ropublic of Ghana       Volta Region Ag. Dew.            29.6U              7.23
1176-GH       191      Republic of Ghana       Railway Rehabilitation           29.96              1.74
1342-GH       1963     Republic of Ghana       Water Supply T.A.                13.96              2.61
1373-OH       19N3     Republic of Ghana       Energy Project                   11.63              6.16
1436-GH       1994     Republic of Ghana       Export Rehabilitation            40.12              1.40
F019-0H       1994     Ropublic of Ghana       Export Rohabilitation            35.06              7.73
1436-CH       1934     Republic of Ghana       Export Rehabilitation            17.10              2.60
Technical Assistance
1446-OH       1964     Republic of Ghana       Petroleum Refinery Rehab.
and Technical Assistance       6.96              1.40
149N-GH       1N4      Republic of Ghana       Second Oil Palm                  26.99             14.09
16S4-GH       1996     Ropublic of Ghana       Accra District Rehab.            22.99             11.27
1573-GH       196     Republic of Ghana       Second Reconstruction
Imports Credit                6o.oe             161.1
1601-OH       196      Republic of Ghana       Road Rehabilitation and
Maintonance                   409.9             21.72
1626-GH       1966     Republic of Ghana       Power System Rehabilitation    26.00               11.77
1653-GH       196      Republic of Ghana       Health and Education
R-habilitation                1S.9             11.19
1672-OH       1986     Republic of Ghana       Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit             26                 3 8.46
A913-GH       1966     Republic of Ghana       Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit                        24.96              6.42
1674-OH       19U      Ropublic of Ghana       Ports Rehabilitation             24.50             16.32
1744-OH       1967     Republic of Ghana       Education Sector Adjustment   34.50                23.29
1769-OH       1967     Republic of Chono       Northern Grid Extension           6.30              4.40
1777-GH       1"7      Republic of Ghana       Structural Adjustment Credit  34.09                2.560
A#26-GH       1967     Republic of Ghana       Structural Adjustment Credit 869.9                 36.44
A0261-0H      1967     Republic of Ghana       Structural Adjustent Credit  14.66                 14."
1778-OH       1997     Republic of Ghana       Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support         19.6e              9.09
!/ Calculated at the exchange rote applicable on March 30, 19N8.
AF4IE62/ANNEX6



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of a
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                                       Amount Loe
Number       Yeor          orrower              PurDOO                   Cancellotion      Undisbureed d/
----------(Uss million)--------
U 61-OH      1967     Republic of Ghana      Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation               17.12             16.S8
1819-OH      1907     Republic of Ghana      PetroluOm Ref Inery
and Distribution             15.60             15.60
1347-OH      198      Republic of Ghana      Public Enterpris  tA            10.6U              90.5
186U4-H  I   198      Republic of Ghana      Cocoa Rehabilitation            46. 6            40. 6
18C8-OH /   1698      Republic of Ghana      Transport Rehabilitation        6.887            68.67
1874-GH      I 10#S   Republic of Ghana      Priority Works                  10.60            16.69
Total number of crodits  u  29                                              783.69           4e8.64
Total (not approved)        1,166.91
of which has been repaid    1865.4
Total outstanding           1,626.67
Total undisburoed                              408.64
^/ Calculated at the exchange rate applicable on March J , 1906.
ki Not yet effective as of March JJ, 19J0.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
a ATEMSNIT OF IFC INVESTUENTS
(as of March U, 1999)
Investmnt
Ho.              FY           Obligor                 Sualngoe             Loan      Equity       Total
----U s million--------
777-OF               95      Ashanti Cold Field
Corporation, Ghana Ltd.    Mining                27.5           -         27.5
914-GN               87      geta Basin Oil               Oil Exploration        -           4.C        4.5
978-CH               Be      Bogoru                       Cold Mining            -           e.5        6.5
Total Comitaents                                27.6          s.e        52.5
Total Undisburood                                 7.5          2.9        10.4



IBRD 18112R1
, 'B U R K I N A         FASO                          J
(       -     .   t-n  
Ut^ P P\ E Ft                E A S T   
') '0  RE    G  I                         '
i    PE )'  ;    __I~..P                                 A -              -
,WEST                                        ,~Q
0*  )                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEMA
S.                                                             SabaCb D rC e-  tY ^ C.   ' '   >   - . O
R   T   H   E                            R/              \R  E  G  N  r.      W.d \
1 @ ~~~~~~~~~~~m ft  M..  M  d_  
\N    f  (   (    \ V                    1 t X   W    - Wf
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   \        d  Vc       0
o   sr A_             of/---\    )%^ 
CAPECOAIl                      a a  a. aa age
,o  vei *w                                                                         - -  4  t s  Yf* lr  DeOoz
(  K vocsc~S  aOND                                          r '  I  \
TA ACRA EI                                a.                      MA1H 198c  A
SP   Self  Z S ~ ~ ^   <      C                                          C  *0  "  Si  ^2  R  G  0r
r  ;                     At.                IIVC                                                  18



