Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 1911 GH
             (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
                            between
                       REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                              and
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated June 14, 1988
<BH=1
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1911 GH
<EH=1>
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  14,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
March 11, 1988 from the  Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed  to achieve structural adjustment
of  the  Borrower's  financial   sector  (hereinafter  called  the
Program), declaring the Borrower's  commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed  imports and services required during
such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
the   Swiss   Confederation   (Switzerland)   a   non-reimbursable
contribution  in  an  amount   of  fifteen  million  Swiss  Francs
Page  2
(SwF  15,000,000)  (the  Swiss  Contribution)  to  assist  in  the
financing of the Program on the  terms and conditions set forth in
a bilateral agreement  (the  Swiss  Contribution  Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
     (C)  Switzerland  intends  to   appoint  the  Association  to
administer  the  Swiss   Contribution   in   accordance  with  the
provisions of the Procedural Arrangements dated April 9, 1987 (the
Arrangement) between Switzerland and the Association; and
     (D)  on the basis, inter  alia,  of  the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided, in  support  of  the Program, to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by  making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
                               - 2 -
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agree-
     ment.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Association,  the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Association  a  report,  of  such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means  the  Standard  International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.  3),  published  by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "Cedi" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Swiss   Contribution   Account"   means   the   account
established  by  Switzerland   for   the   purpose  of  the  Swiss
Contribution;
                               - 3 -
Page  3
     (e)  "Procedural Arrangements"  means  the  agreement between
the Government of Switzerland  and the Association for cooperation
in the cofinancing  of  specific  projects  or programs within the
framework of the Eighth Replenishment, dated April 9, 1987; and
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  January 11, 1988 and February 5,
1988 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent  to  seventy-two   million   one   hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 72,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of  the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and the Swiss  Contribution  Account,  respectively, in accordance
with  the  provisions  of   Schedule   1  to  this  Agreement  for
expenditures made (or, if  the  Association  shall so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
     (b)  Except  as   the   Association   and  Switzerland  shall
otherwise  agree,  the  allocation  and  withdrawal  of  the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed  mutatis mutandis by the provisions
of the General Conditions.
     (c)  The Borrower shall: (i) for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain  in  dollars  up  to  six  special accounts (IDA
Special  Accounts)  and  an  additional  special  account  for the
proceeds of  the  Swiss  Contribution  (Swiss  Special Account) in
commercial banks  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association; and (ii) for the  purposes identified in Section 3.03
of this Agreement, open and  maintain in dollars a special account
in a commercial bank on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Accounts shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                               - 4 -
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1990,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
Page  4
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
                               - 5 -
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing July  15,  1998,  and  ending  January  15,  2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
January 15, 2008  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a) The Bank  of  Ghana is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                               - 6 -
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Ghana with responsibility for
Page  5
the preparation of  withdrawal  applications  under the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution  for  the  collection  of the documents and
other evidence to be  furnished  to  the Association in support of
such applications; such  withdrawal  applications, with respect to
Category (1) of the table set  forth  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, shall to the extent practicable be consolidated
so as to apply  for  withdrawal  of  aggregate amounts of not less
than SDR 350,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss  Contribution shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a)  In  order  to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of  the  agencies  and  organizations  engaged in the
carrying out of  the  Program  and  referred  to herein below, the
Borrower shall, in accordance with  a plan acceptable to the Asso-
ciation:
          (i)  implement a  technical  assistance  program for the
               Bank of Ghana  designed  to  improve its regulatory
               and supervisory functions;
         (ii)  initiate a training  program  for  the Institute of
               Chartered Accountants;
        (iii)  provide training  to  banking  personnel  in, inter
               alia,  technical  skills  required  in  the banking
                               - 7 -
               sector, recently developed  techniques in financial
               markets and management skills;
         (iv)  provide technical  assistance  to  the Consolidated
               Discount House Ltd.;
          (v)  examine the potential  for  capital market develop-
               ment; and
         (vi)  assess the need  for restructuring financially dis-
               tressed enterprises and prepare a pilot program for
               corporate restructurings.
     (b)  In carrying out  the  activities  set forth in paragraph
(a) of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall, in accordance with the
plan referred to in  paragraph  (a)  above: (i) provide equipment,
vehicles, training and  fellowships  to  the relevant agencies and
organizations; and (ii)  employ  consultants whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected  in  accordance   with   the  principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
Page  6
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall,  in  addition  to  the consultants
referred  to  in  paragraph  (b)  above,  employ,  not  later than
September 30, 1988, an adviser on bank restructuring in accordance
with the procedures referred to in paragraph (b) above.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
expenditures financed out of  the  proceeds  of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Accounts for  each  fiscal year, audited in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
                               - 8 -
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account or the Swiss Contribution Account was made,
               all records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices, bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                               - 9 -
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
Page  7
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions,  namely,  that  the  Borrower  has  taken  the actions
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  5.03.  In   the   event   that  Switzerland  or  the
Association terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the  Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall
notify the Borrower  promptly  of  the  date  on which Switzerland
shall assume the rights  and  obligations of the Association under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Provisional National  Defense Council Secretary for
Finance and Economic  Planning  of  the  Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
                              - 10 -
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          PNDC Secretary for Finance
            and Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ECONOMICON                       2205 MIFAEP GH
                Accra
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
                              - 11 -
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                   REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                   By /s/ Kwesi Botchwey
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                              - 12 -
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                    and the Swiss Contribution
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  and  the  Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of  the  amounts  of such proceeds to
each Category and the percentage  of  expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
                                            Amount of
                              Amount        the Swiss
                              of the      Contribution
                              Credit        Allocated          % of
                             Allocated     (Expressed        Expendi-
                            (Expressed      in Swiss           tures
                              in SDR         Francs            to be
Category                    Equivalent)    Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  Goods (other          68,480,000      15,000,000        100% of
     than goods to                                           foreign
     be utilized for                                         expendi-
     the purposes                                            tures
     identified in
     Section 3.03 of
     this Agreement)
(2)  Goods to be              370,000                        100%
     utilized for
     the purposes
     identified in
     Section 3.03 of
     this Agreement
(3)  Training and             720,000                        100%
     fellowships
                              - 13 -
                                            Amount of
                              Amount        the Swiss
                              of the      Contribution
                              Credit        Allocated          % of
                             Allocated     (Expressed        Expendi-
                            (Expressed      in Swiss           tures
                              in SDR         Francs            to be
Category                    Equivalent)    Equivalent)       Financed
(4)  Consultants'           1,980,000                        100%
Page  9
     services
(5)  Refunding of             550,000                        Amount due
     Project Prepara-                                        pursant to
     tion Advance                                            Section 2.02(d)
of this
                                                             Agreement
                           __________      _________
          TOTAL           72,100,000      15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Borrower for  goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
                              - 14 -
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      525           -                   Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667           -                   Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
      897        897.3                  Jewelry  of  gold,  silver
                                        or  platinum  group metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases)   and   goldsmiths'
                                        or   silversmiths'   wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971           -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding    gold    ores
                                        gold concentrates)
     (b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (c)  expenditures  in  respect  of  Category  (1)  and  to be
financed  from  the  Swiss   Contribution  unless  all  conditions
precedent to the  initial  disbursement  of the Swiss Contribution
have been met;
     (d)  expenditures  in  respect  of  Category  (1)  for  goods
Page  10
procured under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures  for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
                              - 15 -
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 20,000,000 for petroleum  products from the Credit Account;
and
     (h)  expenditures for  foodstuffs,  crude  fertilizers, crude
minerals  and  petroleum  products  from  the  Swiss  Contribution
Account.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawal shall be made and  no  commitment  shall be entered into to
pay amounts to or  on  the  order  of  the  Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution allocated to  Category (1) in the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule:
     (a)  after the aggregate of  the  proceeds  of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution withdrawn from  that Category and the total
amount of such commitments  shall  have reached the equivalent of:
(i) SDR 32,500,000 from  the  Credit;  and (ii) SwF 5,000,000 from
the Swiss Contribution, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views  as  described  in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement  based  on  evidence  satisfactory  to  the Association:
(A) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program, and (B) that  the actions described in paragraph 2
of Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement  have  been taken and are satis-
factory to the Association; and
     (b)  after the aggregate of  the  proceeds  of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution withdrawn from  that Category and the total
amount of such commitments  shall  have reached the equivalent of:
(i) SDR 54,100,000 from the  Credit;  and (ii) SwF 12,000,000 from
the Swiss Contribution, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views  as  described  in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement  based  on  evidence  satisfactory  to  the Association:
(A) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program; and (B) that  the actions described in paragraph 3
of Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement  have  been taken and are satis-
factory to the Association.
5.   If, after any  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 4
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken  actions  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower, cancel
                              - 16 -
the unwithdrawn amount of  the  Credit  and the Swiss Contribution
allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule or any part thereof.
                              - 17 -
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Except as provided in  paragraph  2 hereof, contracts for the
procurement  of  goods  shall  be  awarded  through  international
Page  11
competitive bidding in accordance  with procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in  May  1985  (the  Guidelines),  subject  to  the following
modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
                              - 18 -
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$2,000,000 each may  be  awarded:  (a)  in  case of procurement of
goods by the Borrower,  its  political subdivisions or state-owned
enterprises, on the  basis  of  the  Borrower's or the state-owned
enterprise's  procedures  which  have   been  reviewed  and  found
acceptable to the Association; and  (b)  in case of procurement by
private  entities,  on  the  basis  of  their  normal  procurement
procedures.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in  respect  of  such contract, two conformed
copies  of  such  contract,  together  with  the  analysis  of the
respective bids and  recommendations  for  award, a description of
the advertising and tendering  procedures  followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in  respect  thereof,  such documentation and
information as the Association  may  reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Accounts, the copies of such contract
Page  12
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Credit  Account  and  the Swiss
Contribution Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                              - 19 -
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Section 5.01 and
                     Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1
                         to this Agreement
1.   Actions referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
     The Borrower has submitted  to  the  Association, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  proposals for amendments  of  the  Banking Act and other
          relevant regulations  covering,  inter  alia, prudential
          rules relating to the capital adequacy of banks, reserve
          requirements, limits on  loans,  penalties and reporting
          requirements to the Bank of Ghana; and
     (b)  proposals   for   establishing   uniform   auditing  and
          accounting standards for banks.
2.   Actions referred to in paragraph 4  (a) of Schedule 1 to this
     Agreement
     (a)  The amendments to the  Banking Law and other regulations
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) above have been enacted.
     (b)  The monitoring of compliance  of  banks with the uniform
auditing and accounting standards  has  been commenced by the Bank
of Ghana.
     (c)  A timetable for the  phased decontrol of banking charges
has been submitted to the Association.
     (d)  The amendment to  the  Social  Security Decree expanding
the investment opportunities for  the Social Security and National
Insurance Trust has been enacted.
     (e)  A  statement  has  been  submitted  to  the  Association
detailing the modalities  for  the  restructuring  of banks and in
particular: (i)  the  restructuring  or  conversion  of  loans and
deposits extended to banks by the  Borrower, the Bank of Ghana and
external lenders;  (ii)  dealing  with  banks'  portfolios of non-
performing loans; and (iii)  additional  measures for dealing with
non-performing loans to state-owned enterprises.
                              - 20 -
     (f)  Plans for the  reduction  by  at  least  50% of doubtful
loans and off-balance sheet  items  in  the aggregate portfolio of
the banks have been submitted to the Association.
     (g)  Restructuring plans for  banks  accounting  for at least
50% of commercial  banks'  assets  and  50%  of development banks'
assets have been submitted to the Association.
     (h)  An  action  program   for   the   strengthening  of  the
Consolidated Discount House Ltd.  has  been  prepared and is being
implemented.
Page  13
     (i)  A study on the  potential for capital market development
and related requirements has been completed.
     (j)  A study on exchange risk protection has been completed.
3.   Actions referred to in paragraph 4  (b) of Schedule 1 to this
     Agreement
     (a)  The lending floor for the agricultural sector imposed on
banks has been reviewed  in  consultation with the Association and
the agreed-upon changes, if any, have been implemented.
     (b)  The plans for the  reduction of non-performing loans and
off-balance sheet items in the  portfolio  of banks referred to in
paragraph 2 (f) above and the banking restructuring plans referred
to in paragraph 2 (g) above have been implemented.
     (c)  A program for  the  residual portfolio of non-performing
loans and off-balance sheet items  and restructuring plans for the
remaining commercial and development  banks have been submitted to
the Association.
     (d)  The recommendations of the  study  on the capital market
referred to in paragraph 2 (i) have been implemented.
     (e)  The Credit Clearing House has been established.
                              - 21 -
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
the Special Accounts referred to  in Section 2.02 (c)(i), Category
(1) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) in the case of the Special Account referred to
in Section 2.02 (c)(ii), Categories (2),  (3) and (4) set forth in
said table;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services required
during the execution of the Program  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit  and  the Swiss Contribution allocated from
time to time to  the  eligible  Categories  in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount, to be
withdrawn from the Credit  Account  and deposited into the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph  3  (a)  of  this Schedule: (i) not
exceeding an aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  $18,000,000 in the
case  of  the   IDA   Special   Accounts   referred   to  in  Sec-
tion  2.02  (c)(i)  of  this  Agreement;  (ii)  equivalent  to SwF
3,000,000 in the case of the  Swiss Special Account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c)(i)  of  this  Agreement;  and (iii) equivalent to
$1,000,000 in the case of the  Special Account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation,  the  Association  shall,  on behalf of
Page  14
the Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account  and the Swiss
                              - 22 -
Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the  appropriate Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of a  Special  Account  at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from  the  Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the  appropriate Special
Account such  amounts  as  shall  be  required  to  replenish said
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the  Special  Account  for eligible expenditures. Each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account and  the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  in  the respective
equivalent amounts as shall  have  been  justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Swiss
               Contribution  Account   in   accordance   with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit or the
               Swiss  Contribution,  minus   the   amount  of  any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Program, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
                              - 23 -
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account of  the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or the Swiss  Contribution shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in  a  Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment  out  of  a  Special  Account:  (i)  was  made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the  Association,  deposit  into  said Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
Page  15
by the Association into  the  Special  Account shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account.
