Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 1911 GH
                                           (Amendment)
             (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
                            between
                       REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                              and
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Date March 29, 1989
                               DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 1911 GH
                                                     (Amendment)
                      AGREEMENT AMENDING
                 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
   AGREEMENT, dated March  29,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower  and  the  Association have entered
into a Development  Credit  Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit), dated June 14,  1988,  (the Development Credit Agreement)
for the purpose  of  assisting  in  the  financing  of the program
referred to in  Recital  (A)  of  the  Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement (the Program);
     (B)  the Borrower has  requested  the  Association to provide
additional assistance  towards  the  financing  of  the Program by
increasing the amount made  available under the Development Credit
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
Page  2
of the foregoing,  to  provide  such  additional assistance to the
Borrower  upon  the  terms  and   conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
     Section 1.01. Section 1.02  of  the Development Credit Agree-
ment is amended by  deleting  the  "and"  at the end of Subsection
(e), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection (f) and
adding a new Subsection (g) as follows:
          "(g) 'Amending Agreement'  means  the Agreement Amending
     the Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment
     Credit)  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Association, dated
     June 14, 1988, as amended."
     Section 1.02. Section 2.01  of  the Development Credit Agree-
ment is amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The  Association  agrees  to  lend to the
     Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
     to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various
     currencies equivalent  to  seventy-seven  million two hundred
     thousand  Special  Drawing   Rights   (SDR  77,200,000)  (the
     Credit),  which  includes  an   original  amount  in  various
     currencies  equivalent  to  seventy-two  million  one hundred
     thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDR  72,100,000)  and an
     additional amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to five
     million  one   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing  Rights
     (SDR 5,100,000) (the Additional Financing)."
     Section 1.03. A proviso is  added  at the end of Section 2.04
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
          "; provided, however, that  any commitment charge on the
     Additional Financing  shall  accrue  from  a  date sixty days
     after the date of the Amending Agreement."
     Section  1.04.  The  amount   of   the  Credit  allocated  to
Category (1) in the table set  forth  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  shall  be  increased from
SDR 68,480,000 to  SDR  73,580,000  and  the  total  amount of the
Credit referred to at the end  of said table shall be changed from
SDR 72,100,000 to SDR 77,200,000.
     Section 1.05. The amount set forth  in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of
Schedule 1 to the  Development  Credit  Agreement shall be changed
from SDR 32,500,000 to SDR 37,600,000  and the amount set forth in
paragraph 4  (b)  (i)  of  said  Schedule  from  SDR 54,100,000 to
SDR 59,200,000.
     Section 1.06. The following paragraph  is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
          "6.  After a date  twelve  months  from the date of this
     Amending Agreement,  no  withdrawals  shall  be  made  and no
     commitment shall be entered into to  pay amounts to or on the
     order of  the  Borrower  in  respect  of  expenditures  to be
     financed out of the proceeds  of the Additional Financing. At
     any time after such date,  the  Association may, by notice to
     the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional
     Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  3
     Section  2.01.  This  Amending  Agreement  shall  not  become
effective until  evidence  satisfactory  to  the Association shall
have been furnished  to  the  Association  that  the execution and
delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have
been duly authorized  or  ratified  by  all necessary governmental
action.
     Section 2.02. As part  of  the  evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.01 of  this  Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association  an  opinion or opinions satisfactory
to  the  Association  of  counsel  acceptable  to  the Association
showing, on behalf of  the  Borrower, that this Amending Agreement
has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and
delivered on behalf of, the  Borrower  and is legally binding upon
the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.03. This Amending  Agreement  shall come into force
and effect on the  date  upon  which the Association dispatches to
the Borrower notice of its  acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
     Section 2.04. If this Amending  Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this  Amending  Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties  hereunder  shall terminate, unless the Asso-
ciation establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of
this Section, the Development  Credit  Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect, as if  this Amending Agreement had not been
executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Amending Agree-
ment to be signed  in  their  respective  names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America,  as  of the day and year first
above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                         By /s/ Eric K. Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
