DOC_MIt of
The World Bank
FOR 0 CUL USE ONLY
MI CROFI CHE COPY                                       Rop  No. 10240
Rteport No. 10240-GE   Type: (PCR)
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9 073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PETROLEUM REFINERY REABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTACE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1446-GH)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
Tis document has a resnicted distribution sad may be @sed by recipieots ondy in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclhsed without World Bank autborization.



FISCAL YEAR
January . - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEICIP      Bureau d'Etudes Industrielles et de
Cooperation de L'Institut Francais du Petrole
EIB         European Investment Bank
ENI         Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
ERR         Economic rate of return
FCC         Fluid catalytic cracker
GRAIP       Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Company Limited
GNPC        Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
GOG         Government of Ghana
GOIL        Ghana Oil Company
MFP         Ministry of Fuel and Power
KIP         Management Improvement Program
NPV         Net present value
PCR         Project Completion Report
SBM         Single buoy mooring
TC          Thermal cracker



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ONse of Dkfectt-eneraI
Opratios EvaWtion
December 27, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ghana
Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1446-GH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Ghana - Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1446-OH)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with
Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this pro.iect has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
2
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1446-GH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .............................. . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .i
PART I - REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
Project Identity  .1...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Background  .1...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Energy Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Petroleum Sector   .1...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Petroleum Sector Organization  ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Petroleum Refining.                                                            2
Project Objectives and Description.                                                3
Project Design and organization .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Implementation  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
Project Cost   .5...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  S
Procurement and Audit  . .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
Disbursement   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Project Results   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Refinery Rehabilitation ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Technical Studies  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Project Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Bank Performance  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Borrower Performance  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Project Relationships   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . .   10
Project Documentation and Data  .....  .              .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    .    10
PART II - REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .    11
Introduction ................ . 11
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Project Design and organization   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    11
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Project Results   .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                    .   .    12
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits in the Petroleum Subsector                  14
2. Project Timetable .................. . . .   15
3. Credit Disbursements    ..16
4. Project Implementation .17
5. Project Cost and Financing    ..18
6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
7. Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
8. Use of IDA Resources   ..........                     ...     ...    ...     .    22
ATTACHMENT r.  Comments from the Cofinancier .  . . . . . . . . . . .  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CO PLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHBILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1446-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project in Ghana, for
which Credit 1446-GH in the amount of SDR 6.6 million was approved on
March 13, 1984. The credit was closed on December 31, 1988, three years
behind schedule. SDR 288,383 was cancelled and the last disbursement
was in June 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division,
Country Department IV of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). The cofinancier
provided comments on the PCR (Attachment I).
Preparation of this PCR is based on the President's Report, the
Development Credit and Pro.ject Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT CO*?LETION R13POR.
RE,puBLI 01 GHANA                   PRJC
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROECT
(CREDIT 1446--GE)1
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Project had its genesis in the heavy burden Ghana's petroleum
imports placed on its balance of payments. While, at appraisal in 1983,
its petroleum consumption was less than that of other African countries
with similar per capita incomes, petroleum import claims on the
country's total export earnings increased from about 19 percent in 1979
to 47 percent in 1982. This was expected to continue to increase
despite Government controls on consumption because of rising
international oil prices and declining export revenues. At appraisal,
it appeared that opportunities to further reduce petroleum consumption
without seriously hurting economic activity was very limited. Petroleum
was being used mainly to meet basic needs and reducing consumption even
through substitution of other energy forms such as electricity appeared
infeasible. It was felt that the best method to reduce petroleum
importation was through refinery optimization and an improved
distribution system.
2.    Ghana's petroleum refinery, the Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Company
Limited (GRAIP), faced many serious problems: high fuel consumption and
loss due to design limitations and inadequate maintenance and repairs, a
product yield pattern that was not in balance with Ghana's demand
profile resulting in deficits of middle distillates and surplus of fuel
oil (which had to be exported at depressed prices), and significant
losses in the shipment of crude to the refinery and in the distribution
of final products to the consumers.
3.    The Bank's involvement in the petroleum sector in Ghana began with
an IDA credit of SDRl0.2 million in May 1983 (closed as of December 31,
1990) for an Energy Project and an IDA credit for SDR6.6 million for
this Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project
in 1984. Through these two projects, IDA focussed and assisted in
strengthening the capabilities and operations of the sectoral
institutions; addressed key policy issues on energy pricing and
investment programming; accelerated the exploration and development of
indigenous hydrocarbon resources through the revis.L. i of petroleum laws
and acquisition of seismic data and basin studies for promotion to
foreign oil companies.
Proiect Objectives
4.    The Project was designed to provide technical assistance to (i)
conduct studies and prepare plans to rationalize the petroleum refinery
to match its production to domestic demand, improve the refinery's
energy and operating efficiency, reduce losses of crude oil in ocean
transport, at the harbor and in the refinery itself, and improve the
product distribution system in the country; and (ii) finance equipment
and materials already identified and immediately required for
rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement. The Project also
provided technical assistance for a management improvement program (MIP)
and for training for GHAIP refinery staff.



- iii -
Proiect ImDlemetnt_tgf
5.    The Project was implemented by GHAIP three years longer than
originally planned mainly because of delays in appointing and finalizing
contracts with consultants. The Project closed on December 31, 1988. A
total of SDR 6.3 million was disbursed and about SDR 0.3 million was
cancelled.
6.    The main objectives of the Project were substantially met.  Though
delayed, the implementation of the refinery rehabilitation and energy
efficiency improvement component of the Project was successful. Studies
and inspections were completed and recommendations were reviewed with
the Bank, GRAIP, and GOIL, as required, on the following: refinery and
crude handling facilities; crude oil loading, transportation and
unloading system; rehabilitation, revamping, and maintenance
improvement; energy conservation, marketing and distribution facilities;
bitumen manufacturing facilities; Volta Lake transportation of petroleum
products; single buoy mooring facility; and the lube blending plant.
7.    The component addressing institutional development for GHAIP and
GOIL took considerably more time than was originally expected mainly due
to the delay ;.. appoInting the consultants and large scale reduction in
staffing. However, as a result both organizations have achieved
considerable reduction in staff (around 350 against 681 in 1988 for
GHAIP and 394 against 497 in 1968 in GOIL).   The study on the
management improvement program (MIP) was seriously delayed and
implementation of the recommendations of the consultants had to be
carried out under the succeeding project, Petroleum Refining and
Distribution Project (Cr. 1819-GH). The training for the refinery staff
received throligh this Project was only partially successful in
increasing the efficiency of GHAIP's operations since the major
reduction in staffing took place after the training. Additional
training will be required to improve the quality of the staff in the
reorganized GHAIP.
8.    The Bank's guidelines for the procurement of equipment and hiring
consultants were followed by the Borrower except where prior agreement
had been reached with IDA that the technical consultants, Bureau
d'Etudes Industrielles et de Cooperation de L'Institut Francais du
Petrole (BEICIP), with whom GHAIP had a long working relationship, would
be retained to carry out the inspection work and the technical studies.
The quality of BEICIP's work on the feasibility studies was satisfactory
but their detailed engineering, procurement and construction supervision
services were less than satisfactory. This put pressure on the Bank
staff who had to provide intensive supervision efforts so that the
Project could be successfully implemented within the estimated costs.
Proiect Results
9.    The principal objectives of the Project were successfully met.
The Project also served as a vehicle for dialogue with the Government on
policy issues such as the rationalization of the investment program in
public and private petroleum refining and distribution and the role of
private sector investment in the marketing subsector.
10.   In addition, groundwork had been laid so that the benefits
received under this Project would be further enhanced by the
implementation of Credit 1819-GH. These benefits include: improved
reliability of the refinery; reduction in the cost of supply of
petroleum products; further reduction of oil pollution from the
refinery; and a stronger operating and earning capacity for GRAIP.
11.   The economic life of the refinery was extended by 12 years and the
petroleum import bill could be reduced, through decreased fuel



- iv -
consumption and hydrocarbon losses by about US$3 million in 1990 and
could docrease further by US$1.2 million per year at the present average
international prices for products and assuming that the refinery
operation in maintained at 1 million tons per year of Bonny light crude
oil.
Findincs and Lessons
12.   The long delay in completing the Project components was attributed
mainly to problems related to lack of familiarization with IDA
procurement guidelines and disbursement procedures and delays in hiring
consultants and finalizing contracts with them. A salient lesson of the
project experience points to the need for ensuring that all tasks,
whether performed by the implementing agency, consultants or contractors
are coordinated and strictly monitored if unexpected delays are to be
minimized and covenants adhered to.



P*OJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF G
PEOLEUM  EFINERY REHILITATION-AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(C0DIT 1446-GE)
PART I - REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiiect Identity
Project Name:      Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and
Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.  :      1446-GH
RVP Unit    :      Africa Region
Country            Republic of Ghana
Sector      :      Energy
Subsector   :      Petroleum
B. Backaround
Enercv Sector
1.    At appraisal in 1983, Ghana's per capita energy consumption of
around 177 kg of oil equivalent (kgoe) was relatively low compared to
the world average of 1,455 kgoe. Their consumption was about 12% of the
world average but twice that of the average for Sub-Saharan Africa of 88
kgoe. Principal sources of energy were wood and hydroelectricity
derived from domestic resources and petroleum products obtained from
imported crude oil and refined in the country's sole refinery at Tema,
near Accra. of the total energy consumed, wood and charcoal accounted
for 71%; hydroelectricity, 9%; thermal electricity, 1%; and petroleum
products, 19%.
Petroleugm.. sector
2.    By international standards Ghana is not a petroleum intensive
economy. At appraisal, per capita petroleum consumption was at a modest
35 kgoe, less than that of other African countries with similar per
capita incomes such as Angola, Kenya and Sudan. However, its claims on
Ghana's declining export earnings continued to increase. Petroleum
import claims on the country's total export earnings increased from
about 19 percent in 1979 to about 47 percent in 1982. Despite
Government controls on consumption, petroleum consumption claims on the
country's export earnings continued to increase because of rising
international oil prices and declining export revenues.
3.    Ghana's petroleum consumption profile was dominated by middle
distillates (kerosene and diesel oil). Kerosene was used primarily in
rural areas for lighting while diesel was used for mass and freight
transportation and fishing boats. Middle distillate consumption was
around 55 percent of total domestic petroleum product consumption
(excluding bunker). Light and middle distillate consumption increased
from about 86 percent of the domestic market (excluding bunker) in 1979,
to over 91 percent by 1982 and could have been even more if it were not
for Government rationing restrictions after 1982. The trend toward
increased distillate demand and decreased fuel oil demand was expected
to continue until thermal electricity generation becomes necessary.
4.    Government rationing brought about a decline in consumption of
kerosene and diesel oil. At appraisal, opportunities to reduce future
petroleum consumption without seriously hurting economic activity
appeared limited. Petroleum was being used mainly to meet basic needs
and there was little scope for reducing consumption other than through
substitution of other energy forms. This did not appear immediately



- 2 -
feasible. Only limited reduction in consumption was possible through
conservation. Thus, it was felt that future reduction in total
petroleum imports would best be achieved through refinery optimization
and an improved distribution system.
Petroleum Sector Organization
5.    The petroleum sector in Ghana continues to be managed by the
Government through the Ministry of Fuel and Power (MFP), which was
recently renamed the Ministry of Energy. Crude oil exploration,
production and importation was the responsibility of the Petroleum
Department of MFP, which was later transferred to the Ghana National
Petroleum Corporation (GNPC), established in 1983. Crude oil was
processed at Ghana's sole refinery located at Tema, and owned by the
Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Company Limited (GHAIP), a 100-percent
Government-owned company. GNPC paid a processing fee to the refinery
for processing crude oil and maintained ownership of the crude and the
products. Refined products were then distributed by five petroleum
marketing companies operating in the country: Shell, Texaco, British
Petroleum, Mobil and the Ghana Oil Company (GOIL), also a Government-
owned company.
Petroleum Refininq
6.    The GHAIP refinery is a 28,000 barrels per stream day (bpsd) or
1.25 million tpy simple hydroskimming refinery. The facilities consist
of crude oil distillation, catalytic reforming, and treating units for
light naphtha and kerosene/jet fuel. There are no secondary conversion
facilities to convert the residual fuel oil into distillate products.
The refinery has the necessary offsite facilities and an oil jetty (32
feet draft) connected to the refinery crude tank-farm through an 8-
kilometer pipeline (24/16 inch pipeline). The refinery facilities were
commissioned in 1963 by Snamprogetti for GHAIP, then owned by Ente
Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI) of Italy. In November 1976 the ownership of
the refinery was transferred to GOG. COMERINT, a consultancy service
company under the ENI group provided technical assistance to GHAIP until
1983 when GHAIP management fully assumed responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the refinery.
7.    The refinery was originally designed to process Iraqi Kirkuk crude
oil. However, in order to maximize distillate products to meet the
market requirements and minimize fuel oil production, the refinery has
been processing light crude oils from Nigeria during the past several
years. In spite of processing lighter crude, the refinery continued to
face significant surpluses of fuel oil which had to be exported at
depressed prices.
8.    The refinery's equipment and processing configuration resulted in
a product yield pattern that was not in balance with Ghana's demand
profile. The yield pattern resulted in substantial deficits of middle
distillates and surplus of fuel oil. In addition to the problem of
excess fuel oil, the refinery incurred an unusually high fuel
consumption and loss due to the design limitations and inadequate
maintenance and repairs. Energy efficiency of the distillation unit was
low. Consequently, total fuel consumption and loss in the refinery was
about 8.5 percent of the crude processed compared to a norm of about 4.5
to 5.0 percent for a well-maintained refinery of similar size and
configuration. In addition, there were significant losses in the
shipment of crude to the refinery and in the distribution of final
products to the consumers. Ocean losses and port handling losses were
estimated at about 2.0 percent of crude transported compared to the
industry upper limit of 0.5 percent.



C. Prodect Obiectives and Descri2tion
9.    The Project was expected to assist OHAIP to:  (i) prepare detailed
plans to rehabilitate the refinery; (ii) conduct studies to revamp and
rationalize the refinery to match its production to domestic demand;
(iii) improve the energy and ooerating efficiency of the refinery; (iv)
conduct studies to reduce ocear 'reight losses and improve the crude
handling system at the Tema k       as well as in the refinery; and (v)
carry out studies to improve      product distribution system in the
country.
10.   The following components were included in the Project
i.    Technical assistance for the inspection of the refinery and
crude handling facilities; surveyor's inspection of the
crude oil loading, transportation and unloading system;
studies related to demand forecast, rehabilitation,
revamping, maintenance improvement, energy conservation,
marketing and distribution facilities;
2.i  Technical assistance for feasibility studies on secondary
conversion options and bitumen manufacturing facilities,
Volta Lake transportation of petroleum products, single buoy
mooring (SBM) facility at the Tema port, and lube blending
plant;
iii.  Technical assistance for the management improvement program
(MIP) and training for GHAIP staff;
iv.   Equipment and materials required immediately for
rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement.
11.   According to the covenants of the Development Credit Agreement
(Sections 3.02-3.03), the Government of Ghana (GOG) was to employ
consultants by April 1, 1984 to assist them in carrying out the studies
and training components of the Project. GOG was also required to review
with the Bank, GHAIP and GOI' (when both institutions were involved) and
prepare a plan of action to implement recommendations emanating from the
inspection of the refinery and crude handling facilities and the
preliminary evaluation of the secondary conversion options. In
additicn, by July 1, 1984 GOG was to complete the study on the
development of MIP, including accounting and management information
systems for GHAIP, GOIL and the Petroleum Department and by December 31,
l9P4, review with the Bank, GHAIP, and GOIL the recommendations from
tF .,study and prepare a plan of action.
D. Proiect Desion and Organization
12.   At the time of the appraisal measures were taken to ensure there
was a clear conceptual foundation for the Project. Following the
completion of an energy assessment report prepared by the Bank in 1980
and a project preparation mission to Ghana in 1982, it was agreed with
the Government that the rationalization of the refinery sector would be
carried out in two phases: the first phase (financed under this
Project) focussing on the rehabilitation, revamping and energy
conservation of the refinery and product distribution system, a thorough
inspection of the existing refinery and the preparation of feasibility
studies for the optimum secondary conversion option suited to the
requirements of Ghana; and the second phase focussing on the
implementation of the secondary conversion facilities.
13.   To ensure the Project appropriately met the needs of the refinery,
the exact scope and scale of the Project was defined only after a
thorough inspection of the refinery was completed by a specialized



-4-
engineering firm. The inspection was funded uider the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The PPF, amounting to US$1 million, also
covered the preliminary *valuation of alternative secondary conversion
options to convert fuel oil into premium distillates, costs for the
maintenance shutdown, and the purchase of equipment and materials
required to recommission the refinery after the shutdown.
14.   Measures were also taken to ensure roles and responsibilities of
the Project team and the consultants responaible for the Project were
clearly defined and understood. During project preparation, the
Government expressed their decision to retain the Bureau d'Etudes
Industrielles et de Cooperation de L'Institut Francais du Petrole
(BEICIP) of France as the consultants to carry out the inspection and
other studies under the Project in view of their good and long-
established relationship with the consultants. However, because the
Bank felt the consultants, though competent for conducting feasibility
studies, lacked adequate in-house expertise to carry out the engineering
inspection work and prepare detailed bid documents, the Bank insisted
that BEICIP subcontract the services of engineering consulting firms to
strengthen their capabilities. Despite this understanding being reached
prior to Board presentation, the delay in selecting an engineering
subcontractor satisfactory to IDA was one of the major reasons for the
delay (by about 8 months) in project implementation.
E. Proiect Implementation
15.   The Project was to be implemented in over i8 month's time (1984-
1985) but required over four years before it was finally closed on
December 31, 1988. Project execution was the responsibility of GHAIP,
assisted by consultants.
16.   The delays in Project closing were due in part to the following
reasons: (i) Even though the IDA Credit became effective in July 1984,
withdrawals could not be made until conditions for disbursement of the
EIB loan were fulfilled (EIB loan became effective on December 21,
1984); (ii) delays in the execution of the engineering agreement brought
about by delays in the selection of an experienced engineering
subcontractor acceptable to IDA; (iii) the delays in the selection of a
construction contractor (who had to be selected on the basis of work
output from the engineering subcontractor); and (iv) delays in the
implementation of the training component and the MIP.
17.   The implementation of the refinery rehabilitation and energy
efficiency improvement component of the Project, though delayed, was
successful. GOG reviewed with the Bank, GHAIP and GOIL, as required,
recommendations and plans of action emanating from the inspection of the
refinery and crude handling facilities, studies on the demand forecast,
rehabilitation, revamping, maintenance improvement, energy conservation,
marketing and distribution facilities, the preliminary evaluation of the
secondary conversion options, and feasibility studies on the bitumen
manufacturing facilities, the Volta Lake transportation of petroleum
products, single buoy mooring facility, and the lube blending plant. By
contracting tankers for ocean transport through competitive bidding, the
excessive loss of crude oil was brought down. On this basis, the
Government requested that the inspection of the crude oil loading,
transportation and unloading system be deleted from the project scope.
18.   The implementation of the MIP was not as successful as that of the
refinery rehabilitation component of the Project. A study was to be
carried out for the improvement of the organization and management of
the petroleum refinery sector, including GHAIP, GOIL and the Petroleum
Department of the Ministry of Fuel and Power (MFP). Implementation of
the study was seriously delayed due in part to the changes in the
sectoral organization (the Petroleum Department, which was then



- 5 -
responsible for the bulk purchase of crude oil as well as bulk sales of
products to the oil marketing companies, was subsequently abolished and
partially absorbed into a newly created GNPC) and the Government's
general decision to request assistance on a grant basis from bilateral
and multilateral aid agencies to carry out this work. As a result, none
of the deadlines specified by the covenants of the Development Credit
Agreement (para. 3.03) regarding employing consultants, completing the
study and reviewing recommendations emerging from the study were met.
The delay in carrying out the study for the KIP, which was finanlly
completed in June 1989, was a major reason for the extension of the
Project's closing date by two more years. The implementation of the
plan of action and recommendations emanating from the MIP study had to
be incorporated in the succeeding project, Petroleum Refinery and
Distribution Project (Credit 1819-GH). However, since the closing date
of the project, considerable progress has been achieved by GHAIP and
GOIL in carrying out the action program recommended by the consultants
regarding management restructuring and reducing overall staffing.
Additional training of personnel is planned, to improve the quality of
personnel in both companies.
19.   The timely appointment (prior to Board presentation) of a project
team contributed to the successful implementation of the refinery
rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement component of the
Project.
Proiect Cost
20.   Total Project cost estimated at appraisal was $18.3 million.  The
final cost was also $20.1 million equivalent. IDA's financing amounted
to $7.6 million (SDR6.3 million equivalent) including the refinancing of
the PPF of $0.8 million (SDR683,763 equivalent). An undisbursed balance
amounting to $0.3 million (SDR288,383 equivalent) was canceled in part
due to GOG's inability to submit all documentation to allow disbursement
prior to the final closing date of the credit. The EIB provided $7.8
million while the GOG contributed the remaining $4.7 million.
Procurement and Audit
21.   Except for the retention of BEICIP to carry out the inspection and
technical studies as agreed between the Bank and GOG at appraisal, Bank
guidelines were observed in the procurement of equipment and materials
and in the hiring of consultants to do the engineering and construction
work and carry out the MIP study and training components.
22.  GHAIP made good progress in keeping its accounts up to date in the
early years of implementation. It met its audit reporting requirements
with delays brought about by shortage of qualified staff and machine
breakdowns. The 1984 accounts were not audited until eighteen months
after the close of the year. While there was improvement with the 1985
and 1986 accounts (audited within eleven months after year-end), the
audited 1987 accounts were not completed until 23 months after year end.
These accounts were audited by Pannell, Kerr and Forster Chartered
Accountants, a private auditing firm. The quality of these reports was
good. However, for 1988 and 1989, the Borrower did not comply with its
audit reporting requirements. From the Bank's correspondence files and
Aide Memoires left with the Government, it seemed that the Bank did not
make sufficient emphasis on supervision and monitoring efforts to ensure
that good audit reporting, characteristic of the early years of project
implementation, was maintained. At this time (1987-1989) the Bank and
the Government seemed to concentrate their efforts mainly on the
resolution of the policy issue on bulk procurement of crude and
petroleum products, a condition for credit effectiveness of Credit 1819-
GH.



23.   The requirements the Borrower had to adhere to in order to comply
with Section 3.02(g) of the Development Credit Agreement on the
completion of a PCR were set out in an Aide Memoire dated December 5,
1989. Again it seemed that the Bank was not emphasizing enough in its
supervisory role on this issue because there did not seem to be any
follow through on the subject until over a year later.
Disbursement
24.   Disbursement under the Credit was initially slow  because of
delays on the part of the Government in meeting conditions for
disbursement of the EIB loan, problems with EIB loan disbursement
procedures and problems in establishing letters of credit. After these
problems were settled, disbursement proceeded fairly smoothly. The
project was completed with an underrun of $0.3 million (SDR 288,383
equivalent).
F. Proiect Results
25.   Overall, the project was successful in meeting principal
objectives of rehabilitating the refinery and conducting detailed
techno-economic studies. The Project also served as an important
vehicle for dialogue with the Government on a number of important policy
issues, namely the rationalization of the investment program in public
petroleum refining and distribution and the role of private sector
investment in the marketing subsector.
26.   The Project laid the groundwork so that the benefits received
under this Project would be further enhanced under the Credit 1819-GH,
currently under implementation. These benefits include further
improvements on the reliability and operating efficiency of the
refinery; reduction in the cost of refining and distribution of
petroleum products throughout the country; further reduction of oil
pollution from the refinery; and a stronger operating and earning
capacity for GHAIP.
Refinery Rehabilitation
27.   Prior to IDA involvement, the facilities at the Tema refinery were
worn out and corroded primarily because the refinery was old (about 20
years) and poor maintenance practices were followed in the previous
years. Under the Project's refinery rehabilitation component the
following rehabilitation work was accomplished: replacement of reactor
effluent coolers and distillation column overhead condensers with air
cooled exchangers, air drier package, air preheaters, marine and truck
loading arms, burners for steam boilers, power plant and utility units
instrumentation, power plant switch gears and electrical distribution
boards, 6 kv cable line from refinery to harbor pump house; repair of
storage tanks, steam boilers, piping, pumps, machinery, columns,
vessels, jumpers, motors and reinsulation of crude distillation column;
reconstruction of three storage tanks; installation of antifire sys'.-.em
at the oil jetty, fourth steam boiler and crude oil desalter. The
refinery revamping work contributed to the mechanical integrity,
reliability and safety of the refinery processing system. The
construction work performed by Motherwell Bridge was satisfactory. The
facilities are commissioned and are operating satisfactorily.
28.   As a result of the refinery rehabilitation work, it is estimated
that the economic life of the refinery was extended by 12 years. The
Project represented the first stage of a major effort on the part of the
Government to improve the operating efficiency of the Tema refinery and
reduce the cost of petroleum products distributed in Ghana. As a result
its petroleum import bill could be reduced by about US$3 million in 1990
through reduced fuel consumption and hydrocarbon losses when the



refinery Li operated at a capacity level of 1 million tons per year of
Bonny light crude oil. With the refinery rehabilitation, a greater
balance between refinery production and demand was attained and the need
to import distillate products and export surplus residual fuel oil at
distress prices were reduced. Full consumption and hydrocarbon losses
at various stages of unloading, storage, processing and handling were
reduced from 8.5% at appraisal to 6%.
Technical Studies
29.   On the demand forecast study, the consultants assumed Ghana's
economic recovery by 1985 and recommended the central scenario with 4
percent per year growth from 1985 to 2000. The mission however, felt
that the economic recovery would take more time and the growth would be
somewhat lower. The mission suggested that in view of the relatively
small difference between the central and low scenarios, and the
potential ability of the refinery facilities to be expanded to 34,000
bpsd capacity at marginal costs, the refinery capacity planning could be
based on the central scenario, but the economic evaluation should be on
the basis of low growth rate scenario. It was also decided that
Nigerian Bonny light crude would be the basis for developing the
refinery material balance. The demand projected under the two scenarios
and actual consumption during 1987 to 1990 are as follows:
Petroleum Products Demand
(tons '000)
Actual Consumption  1/     Projected Growth by Conultants
Year                                  1990        1995         1996
Scenario      1987  1988 1989  1990  Law Central  Low  Central  Low Central
Products:
LPG            5   5   5   6    10   10    1 1        13   15   18
Gasoline      244  284  344  334   292  318  344   391  405  480
Kerosene      131  131  141  118  153  162  183   204  220  253
Jet Ful        18  22  27  39   37   44   47    59   58   76
Diesel        281  289  313  316  347  370  412    454  486  553
Fuel Oil      51  54  6S  60   87   94  103    116  121  141
Total         730  MS  89  873  926  998  1.100   123.7  1.305  1.521
30.   The results of the evaluation by the consultants of alternative
secondary conversion options to convert fuel oil into premium distillates
indicated that thermal cracker (TC) or fluid catalytic cracker (FCC) would
be the most suitable options. Investment requirements would range from
US585 million to US$130 million for TC and FCC, respectively. In view of
the prevailing uncertainties in crude and finished product prices in the
international market and the need to reduce the public sector investment
program, the Bank persuaded the Government to postpone the major investment
for refinery expansion and a secondary conversion project and limit
investment to improving the efficiency of existing operations through
increased energy conservation and recovery of higher priced liquified
petroleum gas which was being flared or burned in the furnace.
31.  The lube oil blending plant feasibility study revealed that a lube
blending plant with 24,000 tons per year capacity in single shift operation
1/    Source: GOIL.



-8-
at a cost of US$15.0 million would be economically justifiable (20% ERR and
$1S.69 million NPV at a 10% discount rate). In view of the attractive
return and the potential interest of the private oil companies, the Bank
recommended that the lube oil blending plant be earmarked for the private
sector. The plant is nearing completion with private oil companies'
participation in providing technology and financing.
32. The single buoy mooring (SBM) study showed that installing an SBM
facility with submarine pipeline for crude oil unloading using 100,000 DWT
tankers was uneconomical, given that the most economic crude oil sources
for the Ghana refinery are Nigeria or other neighboring countries. It
concluded that the existing shore jetty facilities with minor
rehabilitations would continue to serve the refinery during its remaining
economic life.
33. The bitumen study showed that light Nigerian crude generally
processed in the refinery is not suitable for bitumen. Importing bitumen
quality crude from the Middle East or the Carribean was found to be
uneconomical from the point of view of crude oil transportation cost and
overall products pattern.
34. The Volta Lake transportation of petroleum products study found such
system to be economically viable. This study formed the basis of the IDA-
financed Petroleum Refinery and Distribution Project (Cr. 1819-GH),
currently under implementation.
35. The study on the bunkering facilities at Tema ahowed that the present
bunkering market for Ghana was less than 20,000 tons oer year. A 1,000 DWT
self-propelled barge at a cost of $2.63 million was :ound to be technically
suitable. However, this arrangement would be uneconomical since a 5%
reduction in prices assumed for bunker fuel and diesels would give a
negative cash flow. Since it was doubtful that Ghana could attract
additional volume of sales in competition with other bunkering ports in the
West Africa region, a project for bunkering facilities at Tema could not be
economically justified.
36. The study on the rehabilitation needs of GOIL product marketing and
distribution system indicated that an investment of about US$9.5 million to
rehabilitate retail outlets of various marketing companies was reasonable.
However, it was felt that the marketing companies should rationalize their
facilities to reduce cost, especially at locations where they are clubbed
together. The Bank recommended that since marketing companies are fully
owned subsidiaries of international oil companies, they should themselves
make the investments needed to replace their existing obsolete facilities.
Rehabiliation of GOIL's marketing and distribution facilities is under
implementation under Credit 1819-GH.
37. The MIP study was included in the Project to review the
organizational structures, financial management and accounting systems of
the sectoral entities, GHAIP and GOIL. As mentioned earlier, this study
was seriously delayed due to the reorganization of the sector (creation of
GNPC) and the Government's insistence in finding grant money for the study.
Although UNDP financed the study for GNPC, no grant funds had been obtained
for the GHAIP/GOIL study. The study was finally completed in June 1989 but
implementation of the consultant's recommendations had to be carried out
under Credit 1819-GH. Both GHAIP and GOIL have made considerable progress
in management restructuring and reducing overall staffing in their
organizations. GHAIP expects to keep the overall staffing at around 300 in
the future (from 681 in 1988).
Trainina
38. GHAIP's technical staff, particularly those dealing with the refinery
operation, are competent as evidenced by their successfully assuming the
responsibility for running the refinery when ENI gradually phased out.
They benefited from various training programs over the past years and from



further training under the Project. However, to maintain the desired level
of competence and to replace some of the trained staff who left the
organization, additional training is being planned.
Proiect Manacement
39.   GHAIP personnel acquired considerable experience from this IDA-
financed project. Under Cr. 1819-GH, GHAIP agreed to maintain the project
unit established under this Project and the engineering consultants,
BEICIP, to continue on preparation and evaluation of bid documents, and
project supervision at least until the completion of the second phase of
the refinery rehabilitation under this credit.
G. Bank Performance
40.   The project was properly identified and appraised.  IDA played a
crucial role in the implementation of the work program provided under the
different components of the Project. The Bank assisted the Government to
ensure procurement procedures were followed and closely monitored the
studies intervening when necessary to improve the quality of the studies.
41.   The project was periodically supervised during its implementation
with an average of two missions per year. The frequency and timing of the
missions were necessary for the supervising staff to assess the activities
in progress and to express their views and recommendations on project
implementation. The quality of Bank supervision for this Project seemed to
decline since 1987 as the Bank concentrated its efforts on getting Credit
1819-GH effective. Aide Memoires left with the Government did not cover
Government's non-compliance with audit reporting requirements.
42.   The dialogue and rapport between the Ghanaian officials, consultants,
and Bank staff was constructive. The Bank, in consultation with Government
representatives, maintained close contact with the consultants to ensure
the work program was adhered to, that the output met quality standards, and
that Bank procurement procedures were followed. B,nk staff continuity was
good and the composition of the team working on the Project was constant
and adequate.
H. Borrower Performance
43.   GHAIP was the beneficiary and implementing agency for the Government
on this Project. They implemented their share of the Project in a
satisfactory manner and in accordance with the covenants set forth in the
Credit Agreement for the refinery rehabilitation and technical studies
components but delayed adherence to the covenants dealing with the MIP
(mainly due to Government insistence as expained earlier) and in audit
reporting in the last two years. They provided local support for the
proper implementation of the Project components.
44.   In the early years of project implementation, GHAIP had difficulties
in several aspects of Project implementation: establishing letters of
credit, procurement, withdrawal requests, and selection of consultants.
These were eventually resolved and decision making and project execution
became reasonably efficient thereafter.
45.   The Borrower did not seem to focus adequately on the MIP and training
components during project implementation; as a result the implementation of
these components was seriously delayed. Decisions to overcome these issues
were postponed at several stages of project implementation. However, the
situation was totally reversed and considerable progress has been achieved
since 1990.
46.   BEICIP's detailed engineering, procurement and construction
supervision services were less than satisfactory since sufficient
experienced engineering man-hours were not co-opted as stipulated by IDA
when the Government insisted upon the appointment of BEICIP as engineering



- 10 -
congultants..  This caused intensive supervision efforts by IDA staff to
ensure successful project implementation.
1. P2xject Relationship
47.   Relations between the Bank, GHAIP and the consultants were
constructive and satisfactory.
J. Consultina Services
48.   Overall, the performance of the consultants was satisfactory.  The
quality of the techno-economic studies carried out by BEICIP was good and
the studies were completed on time and within budget. The Bank is of the
opinion, however, that the quality of the engineering work could have been
better if more experienced engineers were selected to carry out the work.
K. Proiect Documentation and Data
49.   Bank supervision and back-to-office reports were satisfactory.
Between missions, follow-up letters and telexes on issues that needed to be
addressed, were sufficient, though sometimes delayed.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1446-GH)
PART II - REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S (MINISTRY OF ENERGY) PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
50.   Following the 1983 Budget Statement in which the Government of Ghana
announced a series of economic reforms aimed at restructuring the country's
economy, a request was made by the Government to the World Bank to provide
assistance in co-financing a number of structural/sectoral adjustment
operations as well as investment programmes in the country.
51.   In November 1983 a meeting of the Ghana Consultative Group, convened
by the Bank Group, endorsed the ERP which also included the Petroleum
Refining Sector. This project had earlier been appraised by an IDA Mission
(March 1983) and approved by the IDA (July 1983) and negotiated in
November, 1983. All of this culminated, in March 1984, in the investment
of SDR 6.6 million for the project.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Description
52.   The objective of the project is to increase substantially efficiency
in the Petroleum Downstream Operations, decrease losses, and improve in
energy conservation etc.
53.   The Project consists o.r the following:
Part A: Technical Assistance in the form of: inspection of
refinery, studies related to petroleum products demand forecast,
rehabilitation, revamping, maintenance improvement, energy conservation,
training of GHAIP Personnel.
Part B: Technical Assistance for feasibility studies for secondary
conversion options, bitumen plant, Volta Lake transportation of products,
single buoy mooring facilities at Tema port, lube oil blending plant,
options for transportation of products from Tema to Akosombo i.e. petroleum
products pipeline study.
Part C: Technical assistance for management improvement programme.
Part D: Equipment and material acquisition for rehabilitation and
energy efficiency improvement of the Refinery.
C. Proiect Desion and Organization
54.   Parts A, B and C fall under the Ministry's component of the project.
The implementation of Part C was delayed and was therefore completed under
Credit 1819 even though payment was made from Credit 1446.
55.   The project was designed in answer to a number of important policy
issues on rationalization of the investment programme in the public and
private sectors, including petroleum refining and distribution in Ghana.
The results of the studies under the Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical
Assistance Project conducted by BEICIP, a consultancy firm based in France
showed that the operation and maintenance of the refinery and off site
facilities had not been carried out satisfactorily and this became the
conceptual foundation of the project.



- 12 -
56.   All the energy sector institutions that are affected by the projects
agreed on the scope and objectives of the projects. Several discussions
were held between officials of the beneficiary institutions; namely GHAIP,
GOIL, VRA, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning and
the Project's supervisory missions from the World Bank and common ideas
were shared by the named parties on the project.
57.   The project concept was very good and innovative.  Its scope and
scale was appropriate and in line with stated objectives. The project was
well prepared and its timing appropriate.
58.   The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
involved in execution of project were clearly defined and understood.
59.   Co-ordinated efforts by the projects management team for GRAIP and
BEICIP, the consultants coupled with the role of the Ministry of Energy, as
well as the World Bank supervisory role and prompt action on honouring
disbursement applications contributed tremendously to the successful and
timely completion of the project.
D. Proiect Implementation
60.   All the projects under this component (Parts A & B), (apart from the
Training of GRAIP Refinery personnel), were completed in December, 1984.
Training for GHAIP Refinery staff was completed in November, 1988. A
report on the status of the various components under Parts A and B,
highlighting the completion dates, consultants and cost of study had
already been forwarded separately to the IDA (reference our letter No.
MFP/226/SF.15 of January 15, 1990).
61.   The most critical variances between planned and actual project
implementation were as follows:
(a) The implementation of the Management Improvement Studies
Programme was delayed far beyond the implementation period of
project and therefore carried over to Credit 1819. It became a
conditionality for effectiveness of Credit 1819. The initial
cost of carrying out the study by the Arthur D. Little (ADL) far
exceeded the amount budgeted for under Credit 1446. There was
therefore a long lead time in looking for additional funding to
cover study which proved to be futile. The scope and cost of
study was therefore modified.
(b) The "Inspection of Crude Oil Loading, Transportation, Unloading
and Storage facilities of the Ghaip Refinery to determine the
best ways and means of ensuring that future ocean losses are
within industry norms" was not carried out at the request of the
Government.
62.   Some of these variances could not have been avoided due to financial
constraints, Government policy issues, etc.
63.   There were no risks associated with this component of project.
E. Proiect Results
64.   To a large extent the project achieved its objectives.  On the macro
and/or social growth policies, the project had led to:
(a) Awareness on the part of policy makers on the future
requirements of petroleum products and especially of the
Refinery's capacity and configuration.
(b) Identification of storage capacities and pipeline options for
product distribution.



- 13 -
(C)   Implementation of Credit 1819.
(d)   Establishment of a Lube Oil Blending Plant.
(a)   Implementation of Phase II of Refinery Rehabilitation.
(f)   Improved operational performance of GHAIP and GOIL.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUANA
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1446-GH)
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Relatgd Bank Loans and/or Credits in the Petroleum Subsector
Project Title/                               Year of
Credit No.                Puroose           APProval       Status
Energy Project    To rekindle interest and   1983        Completed as of
(Cr. 1373-GH)     accelerate petroleum                  December 31, 1990.
exploration in Ghana;
project entails
collection, procissing
and evaluation of
exploration data;
project includes
technical assistance to
strengthen the technical
capabilities of the
Ghana National Petroleum
Corporation and the
National Energy Board.
Petroleum          To rationalize the          1987      Under
Refining and       investment plan in the                implementation
Distribution       petroleum refining and
Project (Cr.       distribution subsector;
1819-GH)           increase the reliability
and reduce the cost of
petroleum products
supplies in the country;
reduce oil pollution
from Tema refinery
operations; improve the
supply of agricultural
products in the remote
areas by bringing diesel
and kerosene to these
areas; counter
deforestation with the
increased availability
of LPG and kerosene; and
strengthen the
organization, management
and operating practices
of GHAIP and GOIL.



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Date           Date              Date
Item                Planned         Revised           Actual
Identification                                               07/82
Preparation                1/83                              03/83
Appraisal Mission          7/83                              03/83
Credit Negotiations        4/84          8/83                11/83
Board Approval             12/84         10/83               03/84
Credit Signature                                             03/84
Credit Effectiveness       5/84          7/84                07/84
Credit Closing             12/85         12/86,12/87         12/88
Credit Completion          6/85                              11/89
Issues Raised at Each Stage of the Proiect Cycle
,NoDraisal:
*The mission recommended that subcontractors experienced in carrying
out engineering inspection and preparation of detailed bid documents
be hired alongside the continuous appointment of the technical
consultants, BEICIP.
Credit Closing:
First Extension (to 12/30/86): Disbursed as of 12/85 - US$1.5 million
Delays in the fulfillment of conditions for disbursement of the EIB
loan; delays in the execution of the engineering agreement; delays in
the selection of an engineering subcontractor and a construction
contr2ctor; difficulties in the disbursement of the EIB loan due to
certain EIB disbursement procedures.
Second Extension (to 12/30/87): Disbursed - US$3.0 million
Delay in appointing consultants for the management improvement study
and training program for GHAIP.
Third Extension (to 12/30/88): Disbursed - US$6.24 million
Delay in appointing consultants for the management improvement study
and training program for GHAIP.



- 16 -
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements 1US9m)
June
Year End                  1984  ,195   1986 1987         1988   1989
Appraisal Estimate          2.5    6.0     6.9   -        -       -
Actual                      0.7    1.5     3.0  6.2       6.9    7.6
Actual as % of Estimate   3.0   25.0   43.5 89.9    100.0  110.1
Date of final disbursement: June 1989
Cancelled amount           :  $0.3 million
Time Line of Planned and
Actual Disbursements
Disbursed Amount (US$m)
8
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989
Year
Appraisal Estimate    1 Actual



- 17 -
4. Prolact Imolementation
Appraisal
Estimate                    actual
Indicator 1        Inspection of refinery and        Completed
crude handling facilities;
surveyor's inspection of
the crude oil loading,
transportation and
unloading system, studies
related to demand forecast,
rehabilitation, revamping,
maintenance improvement,
energy conservation,
marketing and distribution
facilities
Indicator 2        Completion and di3cussions        Studies were all
on recommendations made on        completed on time and
the following studies:            within budget
secondary conversion
options, bitumen
manufacturing facilities,
Volta Lake transportation
of petroleum products,
single buoy mooring
facility and lube blending
plant
Indicator 3        Completion of the                 Study was seriously
management improvement            delayed and
study - July 1, 1984 and          recommendations are
review with the Bank              being implemehted
recommendation emanating          under Credit 1819-GH
from the study by December
31, 1984



- 18 -
5. Prolect Cost -and inancina
A. Proteet Cost (USSmI
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total
Item             Costs   Costs   Costs    Costs  C0sts  Costs
(USS million)            (US$ million)
Inspection of refinery    0.08    1.79    1.87    0.01        0.74       0.75
and crude handling
facilities; studies on
demand forecast,
rehabilitation,
revamping, energy
conservation, marketing
and distribution
facilties and training
Feasibility studies for   0.02    0.75    0.77    0.00        0.75       0.75
secondary conversion
options and bitumen
manufacturing
facilities, Volta Lake
transportation of
petroleum products,
single buoy mooring
facility and lube
blending plant
Management improvement    0.05       0.30    0.35   0.03      0.32       0.35
program
Equipment/materials        1.20    11.65   12.85   2.39    15.86a/   18.25
required ianmediately for
rehabilitation and
energy efficiency
improvement
Base cost estimate         1.35    14.49   15.84   2.43    17.67        20.10
Physical contingency       0.14      1.45    1.59   0.00      0.00       0.00
Price contingency          0.11     0.76    0.87   0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Project Cost         1.60    16.70   18.30    2.43    17.67       20.10
a/ Estimated cost.
B. Financing Plan (USSm):
Anyraisal Estimate               Actual
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total
Item        Costs    Costs   Costs    Costs   Costs   Costs
(USS million)            (USS million)
IDA                    0.0     6.9      6.9       0.0     7.6      7.6
European Investment   1.6    4.7        6.3       0.0     7.8      7.8
Bank
Government of Ghana   0.0      5.1      5.1       2.3     2.4      4.7
1.6    16.7     18.3      2.3    17.8    20.1



- 19 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
The refinery rehabilitation work is expected to extend the economic
life of the refinery by an estimated 12 years.
The petroleum import bill could be reduced by about US$3 million in
1990 through decreased fuel consumption and hydrocarbon losses and could
decrease further by US$1.2 million per year at the present average
international prices for products and assuming the refinery operation is
maintained at 1 million tons per year of Bonny light crude oil.
A greater balance between refinery production and demand was attained
and the need to import distillate products and export surplus residual fuel
oil at distress prices were reduced as a result of the refinery
rehabilitation work.
Fuel consumption and hydrocarbon losses at various stages of
unloading, storage, processing and handling were reduced from 8.5% at
appraisal to 6% in 1990.
GHAIP and the Government conducted a major restructuring program in
order to reduce its excessive and unproductive labor force from 681 in 1988
to about 350 in 1991. GHAIP expects to maintain its work force at around
this level in the future.
B. Economic Imnact
Appraisal             Actual
Estimate       (At Final Development)
Economic
Rate of Return a/              65%                 21%
Underlying
Assumptions
1. Project costs           $14.1 m            $18.2 m
2. Reduced fuel
consumption
and hydrocarbon
losses                 SlOm/year          $ 4.2 m
a/ Relating to the rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement
component.
Comments
The lower rate of return was due mainly to the increased costs of the
rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement as well as the collapse in
oil prices subsequent to Board approval of the project.



- 20 -
C. Studies
Studies                Status        Impact of Studies
To establish the diemand          Completed   Assisted Government in
forecast and determine                        making structural/physical
requirements for the                          improvements in the
rehabilitation, revamping,                    refining and distribution
maintenance improvements,                     network
energy conservation, marketing
and distribution facilities
To prepare feasibility report    Completed   Assisted the Government on
on the secondary conversion                   a number of policy issues:
option, bitumen manufacturing                 the rationalization of the
facilities, Volta Lake                        investment program in
transportation of petroleum                   petroleum refining and
products, single buoy mooring                 distribution; and the role
facility and lube blending                    of private sector
plant                                         investment in the marketing
subsector
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant        Subiect             Comnliance         Status
Develonment Credit Agreement
Sec. 3.02(b)       Employment of      April 1, 1984       Complied but
consultants                           delayed
Section 3.02(g)    Completion          6 months after    Complied but
report             closing date       delayed
Section 3.02(i)    Audit reports       6 months after    Delayed but
end of each        complied for
fiscal year        years 1984-
1987; Bank has
not yet
received
reports for
1988-1989
Section 3.03(a)    Review of                              Complied;
recommendations                       refinery
emanating from                        inspection
inspection of                         completed
refinery and                          11/83;
crude handling                        discussions
facilities                            with Bank 1/84
Section 3.03(b)    Review of                              Discontinued at
recommendations                       the request of
emanating from                        the Government
inspection of                         since the
crude oil                             losses in ocean
loading,                              transport could
transportation,                       be reduced to
unloading and                         acceptable
storage                               levels through
competitive



- 21 -
Deadline for
Covenant        Subtect             aompliance         Status
facilities of                         tanker
GHAIP refinery                        chartering.
Section 3.03(c)    Carry out an                           Complied
action plan
based on
preliminary
evaluation and
recommendations
of alternative
secondary
conversion
options and
options for
installing a
bitumen plant
Section            Complete the       July 1, 1984        Study was
3.03(d)(i)         study on the                           completed in
management                            June 1989.
improvement
program for
GHAIP, GOIL and
the Petroleum
Department
Section            Prepare plan of   December 31,         Seriously
3.03(d)(ii)        action based on   1984                 delayed;
recommendation                        implementation
of study on the                       to be carried
management                            out under Cr.
improvement                           1819-GH
program
Proiect Agreement
Section 2.01       Acquisition of                         Complied
Section 2.06       equipment and
materials for
the
rehabilitation
and energy
efficiency
improvement of
the refinery
Section 2.04(d)    Coinpletion         6 months after    Complied but
report             closing date       delayed
Section 2.07(a)    Review of                              Complied
recommendations
emanating from
inspection of
refinery and
crude handling
facilities
Section 2.07(b)    Review of                              Cancelled at
recommendations                       the request of
emanating from                        the Government.



- 22-
Deadline for
Covenant        Subiect             ComDliance           Status
inspection of
crude oil
loading,
transportation,
unloading and
storage
facilities of
GHAIP refinery
Section 2.07(c)    Prepare plan of    December 31,         Seriously
action based on    1984                delayed;
recommendation                         implementation
of study on the                        to be carried
management                             out under Cr.
improvement                            1819-GH
program
Section 4.02(b)    Audit reports       6 months after      Complied for
end of each        years 1984-
fiscal year        1987; Bank has
not yet
received
reports for
1988-1989
S. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Input
Planned        Revised         Actual
Through Appraisal      n.a.            n.a.           2.3
Appraisal through
Board Approval       n.a.           n.a.           52.6
Supervision            n.a.            n.a.          59.8
Total                                               114.7
n.a. - Not available



- 23 -
S. Mission$
Month/     No.of    Day.-   Special-             Types of
Proiect Cycle         Year     Persons   Field   ization   aatina   Problems
Through Appraisal      7/82      n.a.    n.a.       n.a.       -
Appraisal through
Board                3/83      2        14       FA, PE      -
1/84      1        5        PE
Board through
Effectiveness        4/84      2        16       FA, PE           Engineer'g
sub-contractor
Supervision            9/84      2         8       FA, PE
4/85      2       16        FA, PE      2    Delay in
selection of
engineering
sub-contractor
10/85      3       35        FA, PE      2    EIB disburse-
LO                        ment procedure
2/86      2       11 l/    FA, PE       2    Slow disburse-
ments
11/86      2       14 1/    FA, PE       2    Appoint-
ment of
consultants
for MIP.
11/87      4      32 1/    FA, PE       2    Delay in
implementation
of training
component, ap-
pointment of
consultants
for study on
the HIP
6/88       2       6 l/    ES, PS       2    Appointment
of consultants
for MIP
10/88      1       3 l/    PS           2    - do -
GE
n.a. - Not available
1/   Exact number of days uncertain as supervision/preparation for other projects
took place at this time
Specialization:   FA-Financial Analyst, PE-Petroleum Engineer, LO-Loan Officer,
ES-Energy Specialist, PS-Petroleum Specialist, GE-Geologist
Rating             2 - Moderate problems



- 24 -                           ATTACHMENT I
B El I |ElI B   Don Europaeiske Investeringsbank
9 =;> >hi~ ~ ~ ~~~EIEI    Europaische Investitionsbank
EUPwW0oKli Tpd6Te4a Enev6#uewv
European Investment Bank
Banco Europeo de Inversiones
Banque europ6*nn* d'investissoment
Banca europee per gli investimenti
Europese Investenngsbank
Banco Europeu de Investimento
Ms Mary Oakes Smith
Chief Industry and Energy Operations
Western Africa Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
USA - WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433
Luxembourg, 27 May 1991                     PA/ACP2-CICC/met/  0 U622
Subject              Ghana  - Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical
Assistance Project (Ghaip)
Dear Ms Oakes Smith,
We acknowledge, with thanks, receipt of your letter dated 10 May .1991
enclosing your draft Project Completion Report concerning the above-
mentioned project.
We have studied this  document with great interest  since, as you know,  the
EIB has also been involved in the second phase of work on rehabilitating
Tema oil refinery.
If, by and large, the  report does not give  raise to specific comments,  we
are nevertheless surprised that on page 9, point 5, second paragraph,
sub-para (v), you mention that one of the reasons for the delay in the
project implementation was due to certain EIB procedures. This statement
seems to be inconsistent with sub-para (i) of same paragraph as the EIB loan
became effective only six months after the IDA credit.
Moreover. we think that delays in the delivery of some equipment financed by
the EIB, due to difficulties which arose in certain payments, did not affect
the construction  schedule because  the equipment  was not  on the  critical
path.
On the other hand, we are also of the opinion that the main reason for the
delay was caused by problems in finalising the contract between Ghaip and
the project engineering consultant, Beicip, and its sub-contractor Socetec.
Accordingly, we should be grateful if you would take our comments into
consideration when revising the text and we look forward to receiving one
copy of your final document.
Yours sincerely,
C. Christofidis          C. Cortese
100, boulevard Konrad Adencuer     3 L-2950 Luxembourg      Tf: 4379-1
Luxembourg-Kirchberg                                        Tx: 3530 bnkeu lu
Fax: 43 77 04



