Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3725-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 6.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 23, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
C:urrency Unit = Cedis (4)
ITS$1         = 30.0 Cedis a/
SDR1          = US$1.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEICIP    Bureau d'Etudes Industrielles et de Cooperation
de L'Institut Francais du Petrole
ECG       Electricity Corporation of Ghana
EIB       European Investment Bank
ENI       Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
GHAIP     Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Company Limited
GNPC      Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
GOG       Government of Ghana
GOIL      Ghana Oil Company
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LPG       Liquefi-ed Petroleum Gas
MFP       Ministry of Fuel and Power
NEB       National Energy Board
SBM       Single Buoy Mooring
VRA       Volta River Authority
a/   Since October 10, 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            : Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary         : Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Company Limited (GHAIP)
Amount              : SDR 6.6 million (US$6.9 million equivalent)
Terms                  Standard
Onlending Terms        The Government of Ghana (GOG) would onlend SDR 2.71
million (about US$2.9 million equivalent) of the
proceeds to GHAIP at an interest rate of not less
than 12 percent per annum, and repayable in 12 years
including three years of grace period. The
Government of Ghana would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description:  The project has two objectives.  Its main objective
is to provide technical assistance to conduct studies
and prepare plans: to rationalize the petroleum
refinery to match its production to domestic demand;
to improve the refinery's energy and operating effi-
ciency; to reduce losses of crude oil in ocean trans-
port, at the harbor and in the refinery itself; and
to improve the product distribution system in the
country. The project's second objective is to
finance equipment and materials already identified
and immediately required for rehabilitation and
energy efficiency improvement. Possible risks
include likely delay in the project implementation
due to delays in appointment of consultants and
release of payments. These risks are minimized by
steps already taken to recruit consultants and
advances approved under the Project Preparation
Facility.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Est.imated Project Cost a/
Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
(i) Technical assistance for the execution
of inspection of refinery and crude
handling facilities; surveyor's inspect-
ion of the crude oil loading, transporta-
tion and unloading system; studies
related to demand forecast, rehabilitation,
revamping, energy conservation, marketing
and distribution facilities, and
training.                                    0.08      1.79    1.87
(ii) Technical assistance for feasibility
studies for second.ary conversion options
and bitumen manufacturing facilities,
Volta Lake transportation of petroleum
products, single buoy mooring (SBM)
facility at Tema port, and lube blending
plant.                                       0.02      0.75    0.77
(iii) Technical assistance for management
improvement program.                         0.05      0.30    0.35
(iv)  Equipment and materials required
immediately for rehabilitation and
energy efficiency improvement.                1.20    11.65   12.85
Base Cost EstiLmate                     1.35    14.49   15.84
Physical Contingency                    0.14      1.45    1.59
Price Contingency                       0.11      0.76    0.87
Total Project Costs                     1.60    16.70   18.30
Financing Plan:
IDA                                          0.0       6.9      6.9
European Investment: Bank (EIB)               1.6      4.7      6.3
Government of Ghana (GOG)                    0.0       5.1      5.1
1.6     16.7    18.3
Disbursement Estimates (IDA FY)                        1984      1985      1986
Annual                                        2.5      3.5       0.9
Cumulative                                   2.5       6.0       6.9
Rate of Return:  65% for the Rehabilitation and Energy Efficiency
Improvement Component
Staff Appraisal Report: None
a7   Services and materials i.mported under this project are exempt from
taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Credit to the
Republic of Ghana for SDR 6.6 million (US$6.9 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms. The Government of Ghana (GOG) would onlend SDR 2.71
million (about US$2.9 million equivalent) to the Ghanaian Italian Petroleum
Company Limited (GHAIP) on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (see para 63). The foreign exchange risks would be borne by
the Government. The European Investment Bank would provide US$6.3 million
of cofinancing for the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana:  Policies and Program for
Adjustment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983
(4702-GH). Part I of this Report contains the principal findings of the
report. Basic economic data and selected social indicators are summarized
in Annex I.
Basic Structural Characteristics
3.        Ghana is endowed with considerable natural and human resources.
The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, but also
diamond, bauxite and manganese. The large hydropower potential has only
been partly tapped to generate electric power for the country as well as
for export to neighboring countries. Recently some oil deposits have been
discovered and offshore oil exploitation is under way. Ghana has
sufficient arable land to grow various kinds of food cereals and starchy
staples and possesses considerable fishing resources. The country is also
rich in forest resources.
4.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
about 51 percent of GDP, although only about 11 percent of the land area is
cultivated, divided equally between cocoa and food crops. Nearly 70
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Export Rehabilitation Project
(No. P-3695-GH), dated December 12, 1983.



- 2 -
percent of the population derive an income from agriculture or related
activities. The basic staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava,
and plantain but, except for cassava, yields of these crops have
stagnated. Food production in 1980 was only 88 percent of that in 1975.
Prolonged droughts in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services,
poor transport facilities and lack of fertilizers and other inputs
contributed to the decline.  In the last five years, Ghana has had to
import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal consumption (mainly rice and maize).
Most foodstuffs other than cereals and starchy staples are either
unavailable or can be purchased only on the black market.
5.         Ghana is typical of a developing country that depends on primary
products for exports.  Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest
producer) contributes about 60 percent of total export earnings; production
has been declining, however, and world cocoa prices are depressed. Timber
is also an important export. Although production has been declining for
the past two decades, mining is still Ghana's second largest foreign
exchange earner, contributing 10 to 15 percent of the total.
Div(ersification of the export base, although emphasized by every Government
over the past 25 years, has not made much headway.
6.         Industrial production and services account for 7.5 and 41 percent
of GDP, respectively. Manufacturing--including textiles, steel, tires, oil
refining and simple consumer goods--contributed 9 percent of GDP in 1980
(down from 14 percent in 1971) and provided full- or part-time employment
to about 12 percent of the labor force. Manufacturing in Ghana remains
heavily dependent on imported inputs, however. As a result, the goal of
import substitution through industrialization has met little success and
imposed a serious burden on the economy.
7.         Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source of
fuel for the transport sector. Recently, some oil deposits have been
discovered and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of crude
is now about 1,200 barrels per day, equivalent to 7 percent of Ghana's
requirements. Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport
commercial energy needs.
Recent Economic Developments
8.         Despite relatively abundant natural resources and human capital,
Ghana's economy has been ailing for many years. Prominent among the
symptoms are: declining per capita income, persistent high inflation, a
greatly overvalued exchange rate, widespread smuggling and other illegal
economic activities, large public-sector deficits, a difficult balance of
paynents situation, low productivity, low domestic saving and declining
investment, deteriorating infrastructure, severe under-utilization of
productive capacity, high unemployment, a brain drain of skilled
professionals, skewed income distribution, and much-weakened institutions.
Real GDP has declined every year since 1975, except for 1978, and real per
capita income has fallen by 25 percent since 1975. Per capita income in
current prices was estimated at US$360 in 1982.  Per capita food



- 3 -
availability is 30 percent lower than in 1975. The reasons for these
difficulties are manifold. Political instability and persistent
mismanagement of the economy by successive Governments, an over-extended
parastatal sector, sharp increases in oil prices, adverse terms of trade
for Ghana's major exports, and declining export production are among the
most important factors.
9.        Inflation has been rampant since the mid-1970s.  The consumer
price index increased by an average of 80 percent a year after 1975, and
reached the triple digit level (116 percent) in 1981, despite extensive
Government use of price controls. Large public deficits, excess liquidity,
and shortages of goods all contributed to the rise in prices. Fixed wage
earners and cocoa farmers have suffered the most, while traders, import
licensees, speculators, and farmers with marketable crops have been the
main beneficiaries.
10.       Budget deficits grew, as the Government proved unable to sustain
a program of stabilization begun in 1978, when Government expenditures were
cut by about one-third in real terms and the deficit was reduced to 5
percent of GDP (compared with 12 percent in 1977). An increase in the
minimum wage in November 1980 and a serious shortfall in revenues--due to a
dramatic fall in cocoa duties to 5 percent of total revenues (from 47
percent in 1978/79) and to a narrowing of the Government tax base--widened
the deficit to ¢4.7 billion, or 10 percent of GDP, in 1980/811/. In
1981/82, the deficit amounted to about t5 billion--i.e., 50 percent of
estimated expenditures for the year and equivalent to the entire revenue
collection.
11.       Balance of payments difficulties persist.  Capital inflows have
virtually dried up, due to political uncertainties. Commercial lending was
not feasible due to lack of creditworthiness and accumulation of large
arrears, while official aid was reduced in response to lack of action on
macroeconomic policy. Without capital inflows, imports and service
payments were perforce held to the level of export earnings, which were
also declining in quantity and value. Export earnings in 1981 were
estimated to be 33 percent lower than in 1980 (US$766 million vs US$1.1
billion). The overvalued exchange rate acted as a strong disincentive to
production for export, since the cost of production far exceeded the price
received at the official exchange rate. Overvaluation, along with
shortages of consumer goods in rural areas, also resulted in a wide variety
of illegal and unproductive economic activities. Domestically produced and
imported goods were smuggled to the Ivory Coast and Togo for sale against
the hard CFA, with tremendous losses (unofficially estimated at over US$100
million a year) to the country's external account. International recession
also contributed to the poor export performance. Because of weak demand,
world prices of cocoa plummeted and prices of other primary exports were
equally unfavorable. The international oil crisis compounded Ghana's
problems. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products preempted almost
half the country's export earnings.
12.       Ghana has held its current account deficit low (it actually
showed a small surplus in 1979), but at the cost of severely restricting
imports. The import-GDP ratio, which stood at 20 percent in 1974, declined
1/   Through 1982, the fiscal year was July-June.



-4  -
to cnly 3.6 percent by 1981 at the official exchange rate. This has
created chronic and extremely acute shortages of raw materials, spare
parts, and investment and consumer goods, resulting in stagnation in
production and consumption and sharp deterioration in the physical
infrastructure. Production in the manufacturing sector is only one-fourth
of installed capacity. An estimated 70 percent of road vehicles are
presently out of service, while more than a third of railway locomotives
are awaiting spare parts for major repairs or overhaul. The entire road
network is deteriorating rapidly and is already unusable in many places.
All this has badly affected the export mining and forestry industries as
well as the efficiency of the ports.
13.       Capital formation was quite rapid in the 1950s, but became
increasingly negative thereafter. By the 1970s, gross investment averaged
only 8.9 percent of GDP, suggesting that net investment may have been
negative. Gross investment is currently estimated at an extraordinarily
low 2 percent of GDP, compared to 21 percent for Sub-Sahara Africa as a
whole. In an inflationary environment, with very little scope for
productive investment and negative real interest rates for savers, domestic
savings are also low--about 3 percent of GDP compared to 23 percent for the
rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. The binding constraint, however, is lack of
foreign exchange rather than domestic resources for investment.
14.       State enterprises have been assigned a large role in production
and distribution of goods and services ever since independence. However,
their performance has been distressing both in terms of output and
rrofitability. They have generated serious pressures on fiscal and
monetary policies. The main problems are inefficient and frequently
changing management, Government control over prices, lack of required
inputs, machinery and spare parts, heavy overhead expenses on redundant
labor, and lack of strict accountability.
15.       Ghana originally had a large reservoir of trained manpower, but
in recent years there has been a tremendous exodus of professional workers
to countries where salaries and living conditions are better. It is
reported that one-third of alL secondary-school teachers have migrated to
Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leonte and elsewhere. The outflow of managerial
and professional personnel has further thinned the administrative talents
at senior levels of the civil service, which has been demoralized by
relatively low salaries, an economic system that penalizes them severely
compared with other segments iin the society, and uncertain and adverse
working conditions. On the other hand, unskilled manpower is in
oversupply, and redundancy and overstaffing are special problems at lower
levels of Government administration.
Economic Developments in 1982/83
16.       Soon after it came to power, the Rawlings Government took some
extraordinary measures to arrest the slide in the economy. These included
demoaetization to siphon off excess liquidity and severe restraint on
Government expenditure and monetary growth. It was rewarded with some
moderation in inflation; the consumer price index rose only 30 percent in



-5-
1982, compared to 116 percent the previous year. The budgetary deficit
during the last six months of 1982 was contained at t2.5 billion--at least
no worse than in the preceding 12 months and lower in real terms and as a
ratio of current GDP. But this improvement was achieved at a substantial
cost: the wage/non-wage ratio of recurrent expenditures became more skewed
and development expenditures as a proportion of total Government spending
declined significantly. Furthermore, export earnings continued to slide
(to US$627 million in 1982) and external capital flows, both official and
private, slowed to a trickle. New loans and grants from all bilateral and
multilateral sources amounted to only US$45 million in 1982. Net transfers
from all external sources were still lower--US$38 million, or enough to
finance only 6 percent of the country's already depressed imports.
Consequently, imports had to be held to US$694 million, down by 35 percent
over 1980. This is less than US$60 per capita, or about half the
corresponding level for Senegal and one-fourth that for Ivory Coast. In
nominal value, non-oil imports were lower in 1982 than in 1974.
17.       The foreign exchange shortage, combined with the border closing,
dried up remaining supplies of raw materials and spare parts and reduced
production levels throughout the economy still further. Inadequate
rainfall exacerbated Ghana's economic problems. Cereal production
registered a shortfall of 332,000 tons. The Volta Lake Reservoir fell to
an historic low, resulting in the shutdown of three out of five potlines of
VALCO Aluminum Smelter and further reducing foreign exchange earnings.
Furthermore, a steep fall in world cocoa prices meant that the unit export
value of cocoa in 1982 was only US$1,594/ton, 37 percent lower than in
1981. To make matters worse, some one million Ghanaian citizens--about 10
percent of the population--were expelled from Nigeria in early 1983 as a
result of Nigeria's own economic difficulties. Their requirements added
severe pressure on the economy. Food shortages became acute and market
prices shot up. Absenteeism on farms, mines and offices became more
pronounced with adverse effects on productivity that was low to begin with.
Economic Recovery and Short-Term Outlook
18.       On April 21, 1983, the Government announced the 1983 budget, a
short-term stabilization program, and a series of economic reforms,
including a long overdue reform in the exchange rate. A new system of
export bonuses and import surcharges resulted in de facto devaluation of
809 percent; subsequently, a unification of the exchange rate at cedis 30
per US dollar became effective on October 10, representing a 990 percent
devaluation since April 1983; and at the same time, the interest rates were
adjusted upwards by 35 to 40 percent.
19.       The new economic recovery program is designed to begin the
process of correcting structural imbalances and rehabilitating the
economy. If implemented successfully, the program will realign relative
prices in favor of production and export sectors, reduce budget deficits
and thereby the underlying inflationary pressures, and facilitate the flow
of imports needed to permit the growth of export production. Thus, among
other important measures announced in April were an increase in cocoa



- 6 -
producer prices to provide incentive to farmers, a doubling of gasoline
producer prices as a step toiwards more realistic pricing of petroleum
products, greater balance in Governmient budget and emphasis on productive
sectors in the allocation of foreign and domestic resources. Water, power,
railway and telecommunication tariffs were raised substantially. A price
and incomes policy was instituted whereby the minimum wage was doubled and
civil service salaries were raised by an average of 60 percent.
20.       The 1983 budget reflects the impact of adjustments in the
exchange rate and attempts to restore tax bases. Government revenues are
expected to rise from t4.6 billion in 1982 to ¢14.6 billion in 1983, an
increase of 217 percent. The Government is also committed to eliminating
subsidies to public sector enterprises and keeping a tight rein on other
expenditures. Despite the increases in wages and salaries, therefore, the
deficit is expected to fall from 44 billion in 1982 to 43.4 billion in
1983--i.e., from 50 percent of the 49.2 billion spent in 1982 to 24 percent
of a projected expenditure of ¢18.1 billion.
21.       In the export sector, the changes in exchange rates and price
incentives will have a favorable impact, but it is unlikely that export
earnings will increase much in the immediate future.  Cocoa exports, in
particular, are unlikely to respond quickly, since infrastructure
constraints, inelastic world demand, and agronomic problems related to past
negLe,ct will continue to operate in the short run, and production and
exports are likely to increase by only 5 to 10 percent a year for the next
few years. A more vigorous recovery is projected for mining and timber,
perittting total exports to rise from about US$582 million in 1983 to an
expected US$960 million in 1985, with continuing recovery thereafter.
22.       While the stabilization program will, with adequate external
assistance, provide some relief from the present economic crisis, it has
also been conceived as a first step in a longer-term process of returning
the economy to a more satisfactory growth path. Thus, a critical next step
will be preparation of a comprehensive economic rehabilitation program to
be initiated during the stabilization period and continued for three to
four years thereafter.  A program to rehabilitate the roads, ports, railway
and transport infrastructure will also be needed. Other necessary tasks
include improvement of parastatal operations, a review of the role of the
private and public sectors, and strengthening Government capacity for
planning and economic management.
23.       Ghana's growth prospects beyond the stabilization and
rehabilitation phases will depend to a considerable extent on (a) the
determination of the Government to sustain the kind of economic policies it
has now begun even though some features may not be universally popular, and
(b) an investment plan that fulfills the key requirements of the economy.
So far, the Government has resisted all pressures to rescind or modify its
economic recovery program despite serious economic and political
difficulties. But an immediate inflow of food, fuel and other imports is
essential, since shortages in these areas could set back the Government's
efforts to arrest inflationary tendencies and thus erode the success of
devaluation. A minimum imporl program of about US$1 billion f.o.b. is
needed to begin the reconstruction program with sufficient momentum, and



-7-
this will require a substantial infusion of foreign exchange, especially in
view of the need to build up reserves and reduce arrears. Also, allocation
of these imports will have to be improved in order to appreciably augment
the supply of basic consumer goods, raw materials and spare parts that are
prerequisite to increasing export production.
24.       Beyond the short term, if the Government is able to maintain a
more realistic structure of prices and costs and a viable exchange rate,
restrain growth in public consumption, improve public revenue performance,
reduce the inflationary tendencies associated with large public-sector
deficits, and make a concerted drive to expand production and exports,
particularly of cocoa and minerals, through more appropriate price
incentives, support services, and more assured supplies of necessary
inputs, it should be feasible to achieve rates of real growth in excess of
4 percent a year (or one percent per capita) after 1985/86. The attainment
of even such a modest rate of growth after two or three years would be a
major turnaround. Of course, this presupposes a more stable political
environment than exists at present. It also presupposes that Ghana's own
efforts will be supported by an augmented flow of external assistance.
Ghana's needs for external capital over the next few years are substantial
and will call for a major effort on the part of the donor community.
Unless concessional assistance is forthcoming, the possibility of
successful stabilization and economic rehabilitation will be seriously
diminished and could adversely affect the country's stability.
Relations with IMF
25.       At the request of the Government, an IMF mission visited Ghana
from May 1-25, 1983 to negotiate ad referendum, a stabilization program
which forms the basis for a one-year standby agreement. The elements of
the stabilization program have been discussed in paras 18-24 above. The
Executive Directors of the IMF discussed the program on August 3, 1983 and
approved a standby agreement amounting to SDR 238.5 million and also
approved a drawing from the compensatory financing facility in the amount
of SDR 120.5 million.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all
payments due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt
obligations, are to be paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after
a grace period of 10 years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium and
long-term external public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1982 is
estimated at US$1,163.6 million representing about 3 percent of GDP. The
debt service ratio of public and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term
debt is about 10.7 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services and
is expected to rise modestly after the grace period on the rescheduled debt
expires. Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt increased from US$245 million
in 1977 to US$489 million by end-1978. By December 1980 these arrears had
declined to US$332 million. However, 1981 saw a relapse with arrears



-8 -
increasing by US$142 million., By the end of 1982, the short-term arrears
had accumulated to US$580 mi'Llion. The economic recovery program aims to
reduce these arrears in a phased manner.
27.       Ghana is relying on official sources for most of the external
capital required to support its development program, and relatively little
of its medlium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms.
Consequently, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed together represented
about 22 percent of the country's estimated public external debt at
end-1982.  Net transfers over the last decade averaged US$25 to US$30
million per annum but were US,$7 million in 1982.  Bank Group commitments on
a per capita basis amounted to US$1.76 during 1977-82 and lending dropped
to Less than a project a year during this period.  Service payments on Bank
loans and IDA credits in 1982 accounted for 25 percent of the country's
external debt service, but they are projected to decline to 17 percent of
external debt service by 1987 as other sources of lending revive.
28.       Ghana's extremely difficult economic conditions and its
vulnierability to fluctuations: in cocoa export earnings make it desirable
that future debt service obligations be kept as low as possible.
Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for Bank Group
borrowing over the next few years.  This is also consistent with Ghana's
relatively low per capita income. At the same time, to help ensure a more
adequate flow of foreign exchange into the country, it would be appropriate
to finance some local costs cf projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
29.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 21 credits
totalling US$279.3 million. Included in the 21 credits is one project in
which Ghana is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed regional clinker project
covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana).  There are no IFC
investments. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of November 30, 1983.
30.       Power generation and distribution represents the largest share of
past: commitments (27 percent) and the sector has been assisted by three
power generation projects and three power distribution projects. Bank
Group involvement in the sector started in 1962 with the Volta River
project which included the construct-ion of the Akosombo dam, the country's
first hydro power plant (912 MW) and the transmission grid.  The project
also helped to create the Volta River Authority (VRA), the power generating
company. Subsequent Bank involvement in power generation included the
Volta River expansion project in 1968 and Kpor.g Hydroelectric project in
1977.  In power distribution three Bank Group operations (in 1968, 1971 and
1977) helped to establish and expand a low voltage distribution network and
create the Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG), the power distribution
companiy.  Cofinancing was a major operation in our lending to the power
sector and involved a number of donor agencies including the Arab Funds,
EIB, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the European
Development Fund, the Development Loan Fund (USA), US Exim Bank, and the



Export Credit Guarantee Department (UK). Agriculture has received 22.5
percent of the Bank Group's lending to Ghana. The lending program in
agriculture has covered fisheries (1969), Eastern Region cocoa (1970),
sugar rehabilitation (1973), livestock development (1974), Ashanti Region
cocoa (1975), oil palm (1975), Upper Region agricultural development (1976)
and Volta Region agricultural development (1980). The main thrust of the
Bank Group's lending operations in agriculture has been to assist the
country in achieving greater self-sufficiency in agricultural production,
particularly food and raw materials for agro-industries, and rehabilitating
the cocoa subsector. Earlier Bank Group projects in the sector were
directed towards development of specific subsectors, while starting in late
1970s, more emphasis has been given to a broad-based integrated
agricultural development. Two such projects are currently under
implementation, one in the Upper Region and the other in the Volta Region
which aim at increasing agricultural production and farm incomes and the
standard of living of a large number of smallholders by introducing
improved farming technology, providing farm support services and developing
rural infrastructure. Major donor agencies which provided cofinancing in
our agriculture sector operations were the Overseas Development
Administration (UK), the International Fund for Agricultural Development,
and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa. The Bank Group is
also executing a UNDP-financed technical assistance project designed to
strengthen the management and operation of the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board.
31.       Transportation is the third most important sector in the Bank
Group's program in Ghana (20.5 percent of commitments). Projects financed
in the sector include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and 1980) and a
railway rehabilitation project approved in 1981. The road projects
focussed initially on rehabilitation and reconstruction of part of the
country's main trunk road system but, in light of rapid deterioration in
the entire road sector principally due to acute shortages of imported
inputs, later emphasis was placed on emergency maintenance to keep roads
open for agricultural and export traffic. An ongoing railway project which
is cofinanced with the African Development Bank (ADB) seeks to remove the
present transport bottleneck to Ghana's traditional exports (cocoa, timber
and minerals), for the movement of which railways have a comparative
advantage. A telecommunications project currently under implementation
aims at improving and expanding domestic telephone services in Accra and
major urban centers. In the field of water supply two projects (in 1969
and 1974) have helped increase and improve the water supply in the
Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas.  The first project
helped expand the water supply distribution network and sewerage system in
the Accra/Tema area and the second project which was cofinanced with ADB
and CIDA included construction of a reservoir at Weija, a treatment plant
and a transmission pipeline. A third water supply project was approved by
the Executive Directors in March 1983 to help carry out emergency repairs
and maintenance on the pipeline from Kpong which presently provides two
thirds of the Accra water supply. The project also includes substantial
technical assistance to strengthen the management and operations of the
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation and to increase its capacity for
improving water supply, especially in the rural areas. In the
manufacturing sector, two DFC operations (in 1975 and 1979) have financed



- 10 -
investment projects in manufacturing and agro-industry undertaken by small
and medium enterprises.  The main emphasis of Bank Group lending in this
sector has been to encourage enterprises using local raw materials and
whi ch are capable of contributing to foreign exchange earnings and
savings. A related objective for the DFC projects was to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the National Investment Bank, Ghana's main
development finance institution.  The second DFC project which includes
cof inancing under an EEC Special Action Credit is providing foreign
exchange working capital to help increase capacity utilization of priority
enterprises, in addition to long-term capital investment. An energy
prcject aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate
petroleum exploration was approved by the Executive Directors in May 1983.
32.        The serious economic difficulties which the country has
experienced in recent years have adversely affected implementation of a
number of Bank Group-financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the
Government has constrained its ability to finance the local costs of
projects, and the lack of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe
shortage of imported materials and spare parts required for the operation
and maintenance of completed projects; the mass exodus of qualified
Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization, absenteeism and low
productivity among the remaining work force have also adversely affected
pro ject performance.  The unusually adverse conditions surrounding Bank
Group financed projects and their generally poor performance have been
described in greater detail in the Project Performance Audit Reports.
Overall, the main conclusion of the Reports was that macroeconomic and
sectoral policy constraints were the major factors responsible for poor
per:formance of the audited projects. Because of delays experienced in the
impLeMentation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana, the
disbursements performance is falling behind appraisal estimates. Annual
gross disbursements have averaged about 25 percent of outstanding
loan/credit commitments and as of November 30, 1983, US$148.8 million
remained undisbursed. The Bank Group has held periodic implementation
reviews with the Government to identify steps which could be taken by
Borrowers and the Bank Group to accel-erate disbursement on ongoing loans
and credits.
33.        The principal objectives which will guide the formulation of the
Bank Group assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of
policies designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and return
it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and improve capacity
utilization of the country's existing assets; (c) to stimulate agricultural
and industrial production, particularly for export promotion and efficient
import substitution; and (d) to improve the country 's essential
infrastructure (transport, water, petroleum, power) so as to relieve major
bottlenecks to increased production. A substantial increase in economic
and sector work is also planned to broaden and deepen our understanding of
the constraints which are likely to impede the recovery process, to provide
direztion to future lending program and the design of project components.
In both our lending and economic and sector work, attention will be given
to ways of strengthening the iLnstitutions responsible for economic
management and development spending.



- 11 -
34.       In response to Ghana's economic recovery program, the Executive
Directors approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit in June
1983 and a US$76 million Export Rehabilitation Project and a US$17.1
million Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project in January
1984. In addition to these and the proposed project, a more broadly-based
program of rehabilitation of the country's economic assets will be
required. In the near term IDA would support a program to rebuild the
network of trunk roads, including major bridge reconstruction and ports
rehabilitation components, and provide assistance to rehabilitate the power
distribution system. In agriculture, further assistance to the development
of oil palm production is envisaged as well as for cocoa given the
overwhelming importance of this crop, at least in the short term, for
foreign exchange earnings. In energy, through the proposed project,
assistance will be provided to help reduce the cost of petroleum products
required by the country. In brief, projects with major rehabilitation
components are likely to absorb tlhe bulk of Bank Group resources for the
next few years as these are likely to show the highest benefits and
quickest returns. For the outer years, the Bank will begin to examine
prospects for new productive investments including support for education,
health and other important activities in the social sectors. The extent to
which the Bank Group can provide financial and technical assistance to
support such a broad-based program will be conditioned by the performance
of the Government in carrying through its economic recovery program.
35.       The Government of Ghana has requested the Bank Group to act as a
catalyst to help muster external assistance through cofinancing and more
generally in the context of strengthened aid coordination. At the request
of the Government, the Bank Group reconvened a meeting of the Ghana
Consultative Group on November 23 and 24, 1983. The participants of the
meeting have endorsed the Government's economic recovery program, and it is
expected that the foreign exchange requirements for 1984 under the program
will be substantially met by the donors' contributions.
PART III - ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
Energy Sector
36.       Resource Overview.  Ghana is well endowed with renewable energy
resources, of which fuelwood and hydropower are the most important.
Wood-based energy supplies are abundant in the High Forest Zone of the
country which covers about 34 percent of the total land area. Despite
fuelwood demand increasing at an average annual rate of more than 5 percent
during the 1970s, the sustainable yield of Ghana's forests is sufficient to
accommodate the projected consumption through the 1990s. Hydropower
resources are also abundant particularly in the central and western regions
of the country. Three major rivers, with over twenty tributaries and
streams, drain these regions. Economically usable hydroelectric potential
is estimated at about 2,000 MW, about twice the presently installed
capacity, although the costs of tapping this unused potential are high.
Recent completion of the Bank-financed Kpong Hydroelectric Project (Loan
1380-GH) has increased installed capacity to 1,030 MW. Although the
petroleum potential is considered large, proven reserves amount to less
than 8 million barrels, but exploration work is currently being undertaken



- 12 -
witn assistance from IDA under the Energy Project (Credit 1373-GH) approved
in Kay 1983.  Ghana, due to its geographical Location, also enjoys abundant
solar energy potential. The-re are no known coal, lignite or peat deposits
and the potential for wind er,ergy is limited.
37.       Energy Consumption,  Ghana's per capita commercial energy
conSunption is about 177 kg of oil equivalenl: (oe); this is about
12 percent of the world average of 1,455 kg but twice that of the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa of 88 kg. Principal sources of energy are wood and
hydroelectricity derived from domestic resources, and petroleum products
obtained from imported crude oil and refined in the country's sole refinery
at 'emna, near Accra.  Total energy consumption in 1979 (the latest year for
which reliable statistics are available) amounted to 3.9 million tons of
oil equivalent (toe), or about 345 kg per capita. As shown in the table
below, wood and charcoal accounted for about 71 percent, hydroelectricity
for about 9 percent, thermal electricity for 1 percent and petroleum
products for 19 percent.
Ghana - Energy Consumption (1979)
(thousand toe)
Wood                           2,644           67.8
Charcoal                         115            2.9
Hydro-electricity                367            9.4
Thermal Electricity               39            1.0
Petroleum Products               740           18.9
Total       3,905          100.0
Sources:  Ministry of Fuel & Power, Accra; Ghana Energy Outlook and Options
for the 1980s, IBRD Report No. 3124-GH, October 1980.
38.       Development and Organization of the Energy Sector.  The principal
responsibility for the energy sector rests with the Ministry of Fuel and
Power (MFP) which is headed by a Secretary (equivalent of a Minister). MFP
is responsible for monitoring all aspects of the petroleum industry from
crude oil procurement and production to refining and distribution of final
products.  MFP is also responsible for matters pertaining to firewood and
charcoal. Hydroelectric power generation is the responsibility of the
Volta River Authority (VRA), which was created in 1961 as an autonomous
entity by a special Government Act. VRA distributes power directly to the
large consumers such as Volta Aluminium Company (VALCO), the mines,
Akosombo township, and for export to Togo and Benin. The remaining
consumers account for about 22 percent of VRA's generation and are serviced
through the Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG).
39.       In response to the pressures brought on by rising petroleum
import costs and by a Nigerian oil embargo in 1979, the Government set up
the %,mmittee on Energy Resources to review options available to the



- 13 -
Government for effective management of the sector. The Committee
recommended setting up of a permanent body to deal with energy matters--a
proposal subsequently endorsed by an IDA energy assessment mission. The
Government has proceeded with the recommendation and has approved the
establishment of the National Energy Board (NEB) as the single advisory
body to the MFP. NEB would be responsible for maintaining a comprehensive
statistical data base on energy resources, production, transformation and
end-use; for developing and coordinating energy policies and conducting
energy studies; and coordinating activities and preparing a work program in
the renewable energy field. NEB has already been established and will
benefit from the recently approved IDA-financed Energy Project (Credit
1373-GH) which contains a component to strengthen in-house technical
capabilities.
The Petroleum and Refining Sector
40.       The Petroleum Situation.  By international standards Ghana is not
a petroleum intensive economy.  Per capita petroleum consumption of around
65 kilograms (kg) is less than half that of other African countries with
similar per capita incomes, such as Angola, Kenya and Sudan.  In recent
years, consumption has been limited to 0.7 to 0.8 million tons of crude oil
per year through strict rationing.  In spite of such controls, petroleum
consumption claims on the country's export earnings have continued to
increase as a result of rising international oil prices and declining
export revenues. As shown below, Ghana's petroleum imports in 1982 of
about US$273 million claimed about 47 percent of the country's total export
earnings.
Ghana - Petroleum Imports
(in US$ million)
1979       1980        1981        1982
Crude Oil Imports (Million tons)         1.09        1.03        1.16       1.11
Crude Oil Imports                     201.3       304.4       346.0       305.2
Refined Product Imports                  -          -          12.3         -
Lube Oil Imports                         n.a.      22.4        22.3        12.1
Petroleum Export a/                      n.a.      36.5        44.8        44.4
Net Petroleum Import                  201.3       290.3       335.8       272.9
Total Export Earnings               1,066.1    1,159.5        766.0       623.1
Export Earnings (Net of
Petroleum Exports)                1,066.1    1,123.0        721.2       578.7
Petroleum Imports/Export
Earnings (%)                         18.9        25.9        46.6        47.2
a/   Mainly fuel oil.



- 14 -
41.       Petroleum Sector Organization.  The petroleum sector in Ghana is
managed by the Government through the Ministry of Fuel and Power. Crude
oil exploration, production aLnd importation are the responsibility of the
Petroleum Department of MEP. Crude oil is processed at Ghana's sole
refiLnery located at Tema, and! owned by the Ghanaian Italian Petroleum
Company Limited (GHAIP), a 100 percent Governrnent-owned company. The
Petroleum Department pays a processing fee to the refinery for processing
crude oil and maintains ownership of the crude and the products.  Refined
products are distributed by five petroleum marketing companies operating in
the country: Shell, Texaco, Br-ltish Petroleum, Mobil, and the Ghana Oil
Company (GOIL), a Government-owned company. Surplus fuel oil is exported
dire!Ctly by the Petroleum Department.
42.       With the assistance of the UN Center for Transnational
Corporations and Robertson Research International of the UK, the Government
has carried out studies on improving the organization of the petroleum
sector. As a result, it decided to create a new company, Ghana National
Petroleum Corporation (GNPC), to be responsible for exploration,
development and production of crude oil. It will be the instrument through
which the Government will participate with foreign firms in exploration and
development of oil fields in Ghana. The new company will be 100 percent
Government-owned and all its key positions are expected to be filled by
staff from the Petroleum Department and MFP.   The other two Government
comparties, GHAIP and GOIL will continue to be independent.  The
resp.onsibility for crude oil procurement would be with GNPC after it
becomes operational.
43.       The Petroleum Consumption P'rofile.  Ghana's petroleum consumption
profile, as in most other developing countries, is dominated by middle
distillates (kerosene and diesel oil). Kerosene is used primarily in rural
areas for lighting while diesel is used for mass and freight transportation
and fishing boats. Middle distillate consumption has been around
55 percent of total domestic petroleum product consumption (excluding
bunker). Light and middle distillate consumption increased from about
86 percent of the domestic market (excluding bunker), to over 91 percent
by 1982 and could have been even more if it were not for the strict
rationing in recent years.  This trend towards increasing distillate demand
and decreasing fuel oil demand is expected to continue into the future.
The past evolution of consumpl'ion of petroleum products is given in the
following table:



-- 15 -
Ghana - Petroleum Products Consumption
(in thousand tons)
Products             1970       1978     1979 a/   1980 a/   1981 a/   1982
LPG                   4.0        6.5        6.3       6.9        6.1       6.2
Gasoline            172.3      263.6     223.0      243.0      255.0    236.0
Kerosene/ATF         72.5      173.9      155.2     158.0      162.2    124.3c/
Diesel b/           241.7      250.5     226.3      233.8      229.7    194.7
Fuel Oil             79.4       77.5      67.8       66.4       58.1     47.7
Bitumen               n.a.       -          1.9       6.4        7.4      7.4c/
Subtotal       569.9     772.0      680.5      714.5     718.5    616.3
Bunker Diesel         n.a.      64.9      58.2       57.6       60.6     60.6c/
Bunker Fuel Oil       n.a.       n.a.      8.7        5.4        6.4      6.4C/
Subtotal         -        64.9       66.9       63.0      67.0      67.0
Total Products      570.4      836.9     747.4      777.5      785.5    683.3
a/   Figures were converted from barrels to metric tons using the follow-
ing specific gravities: LPG .56, gasoline .73, kerosene/ATF .80,
diesel .84, fuel oil .94, and bitumen 1.01.
b/   Includes industrial and marine diesel.
iz/  Estimated.
44.       During the last few years, consumption of kerosene and diesel oil
declined substantially as a result of Government rationing. In the
future, opportunities to reduce petroleum consumption without seriously
hurting economic activity appear limited. The transport sector, the
largest petroleum consumer with 65 percent of the total consumption, has
only limited energy efficiency improvement possibilities in the near
future. Industrial and commercial sectors also have limited scope for
waste reduction in their petroleum consumption since their petroleum use is
comparatively low (22 percent). Price increases and frequent shortages
have already driven some private sector industries to improve efficiency
and/or shift to wood or electricity to meet their energy needs. Petroleum
use in the residential sector (11 percent) is almost entirely kerosene used
in the rural areas, mainly for lighting. These needs are so basic that
there is little scope for reducing consumption other than through
substitution of other energy forms such as electricity. Such substitution
does not, however, appear immediately feasible and in any case would have
to be examined within a total energy context to determine its economic
attractiveness in various areas of the country.
45.       The overall petroleum consumption profile suggests that Ghana can
achieve only limited reduction in consumption through conservation at the
final consumer level. Therefore, although efforts in energy conservation
should continue to be pursued, it appears that reduction in the total
petroleum bill can best be achieved through refinery optimization and an
improved distribution system.



-  16  -
46.       Petroleum Refining.  The GHAIP refinery is a 28,000 barrels per
stream day (bpsd) or 1.25 milLion tpy simple hydroskimming refinery.  The
facilities consist of crude oil distillation, catalytic reforming, and
treating units for light naphtha and kerosene/jet fuel. There are no
secoadary conversion facilities to convert the residual fuel oil into
distillate products. The refinery has the necessary offsite facilities and
an oil Jetty connected to the refinery crude tank farm through an 8
kilometer pipeline.  The refinery facilities were commissioned in 1963 by
Snam-rogetti for GHAIP, then owned by Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI) of
Italy. In November 1976 the ownership of the refinery was transferred to
GOG. COMERINT, a consultancy service company under the ENI group,
continues to act as a technical adviser, although the management is
Ghanaian.
47.       The refinery was originally designed to process Iraqi Kirkuk
crude oil. However, in order to minimize the production of low-value fuel
oil, the refinery has been processing light crudes from Nigeria, Algeria
and libya capable of lower fuel oil yield per barrel when processed in a
hydroskimming refinery. In spite of processing lighter crudes, the
refinery continues to face significant surpluses of fuel oil which have to
be exported at depressed prices. Refinery production between 1979 and 1982
is shown below:
Ghana - GHAIP Refinery Production
(in thousand tons)
Product Mix
(%)
Products           1979      1980)    1981       1982      1979    1982
LPG                   7.3      6.8       6.8       7.1      0.7      0.7
Gasoline           227.6    246.5    255.9    245.4    23.4         23.6
Kerosene/Jet       162.0    157.9    165.1    163.7    15.9         15.7
Diesel             283.9    307.8    318.2    286.2    27.9         27.5
Fuel Oil           271.1    285.1    316.2    279.0    26.7         26.8
Total        951,9  1,004.1  1,062.2    981.4    93.6         94.3
Fuel and Loss       65.0      53.5      66.4      59.0      6.4      5.7
Crude Processed 1,016.9  1,057.6  1,128.6  1,040.4   100.0    100.0
48.       The total distillation capacity of the refinery is sufficient to
cover the needs of the country until the early 1990s. However, the product
yield pattern achievable with the refinery's present equipment and
processing configuration is not in balance with Ghana's demand profile, and
results in substantial surpluses of fuel oil. In fact, domestic consump-
tion of fuel oil in 1982 amounted to about 48,000 tons (para 43), compared
to the refinery output of 279,000 tons in that year (para 47). Secondary
conversion to convert the low-value surplus fuel oil into higher-value



-  17  -
distillate products will reduce the import cost of petroleum products to
Ghana. A detailed study to select the right type of secondary conversion
will be carried out under this Project. Furthermore, due to the design
philosophy used (which was common during the period prior to the 1973 oil
crisis), and inadequate maintenance and repairs during the past several
years, the energy efficiency of the distillation unit, especially its heat
exchange system and furnace, is low. Consequently, total fuel consumption
and loss in the refinery is about 6 percent of the crude processed compared
to about 3.5 to 4.0 percent for a well-maintained refinery of similar
configuration. In addition to the refinery processing losses, there are
significant losses in the ocean shipment of crude and its pipeline transfer
from the harbor to the refinery and in the distribution of final products
to the consumers. Ocean losses and port handling losses are estimated at
about 2.0 percent of crude transported compared to industry upper limit of
0.5 percent. Such excessive crude oil losses which amount to over US$5
million per year will be investigated by independent inspection of crude
oil loading, transportation, unloading and storage, to be financed under
the proposed Project. The Government would review the surveyor's
recommendations with GHAIP and IDA and take all action necessary and
appropriate to enable GHAIP to prepare a plan of action acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association to implement such recommendations (Section
3.03 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Projected Demand/Supply Imbalance.  When the economy recovers
over the next several years, overall demand for petroleum products is
expected to grow. The past trend towards increasing distillate demand and
decreasing fuel oil demand is expected to continue. In particular, with
recovery in the transportation sector, diesel demand will grow more rapidly
than demand for other distillate products. The demand/supply situation for
petroleum products in 1991 is expected to be as follows:
Ghana - Projected Demand/Supply Situationi in 1991
(thousand tons)
Without Project                With Project
Demand Supply Surplus (Deficit) Supply Surplus (Deficit)
LPG             10      10                              10             -
Gasoline       299     299                             299             -
Kerosene/ATF  206      206                -            206             -
Diesel         400     304               (96)          340            (60)
Fuel Oil        77     357               280           340            263
Bitumen         35       0               (35)           -             (35)
Total  1,027   1,176                           1,195
50.       Without appropriate secondary conversion facilities in the
refinery, Ghana's petroleum products demand/supply imbalances are likely to
worsen, with larger shortages in diesel and surpluses in fuel oil, making
the petroleum sector even less economic. Future investment in the sector
should therefore aim at matching refinery production to the changing
demand. Depending upon the type of secondary conversion process selected



- 18 -
(expected to cost between US$60-US$85 million) as a result of the studies,
the yearly net foreign exchange savings to the country could range from
US$10 to 20 million.
Marketing of Petroleum Products
51.       Refined petroleum products from the CHAIP refinery are
transported to various locations in the country by the five marketing
companies by barges, rail and road. At present, the overall transportation
cost of petroleum products is high and the pattern of movement
inefficient. A detailed study to optimize the pattern of petroleum product
movement is necessary to improve the efficiency of the system and reduce
costs.
52.       Refined Petroleum Product Pricing.  Refined petroleum product
prices--both ex-refinery and at the consumer level--are set by the
Government. Until the April 1983 devaluation, ex-refinery prices covered
fully the crude oil cost plus a refinery processing fee.  The refinery fee
fully met operating and administrative expenses and then allowed a 12.5
percent return on paid-in capital.  Retail prices were obtained by adding
duties, dealer's margin, marketter's margin, energy fund contribution, and
transportation charges to the ex-refinery cost. All foreign costs were
converted to local costs at the official exchange rate, and therefore, in
the past the resultant prices (shown iLn table below) were significantly
below world market prices. With the price increases of April and October
1983, this situation has significantly improved.
Ghana - Petroleum Products Retail Prices
(¢/Imperial Gallon)
1972   1975   1978  1980   1982  1983 a/  1983 b/
LPG (lb.)              0.15   n.a.   0.31  0.50   0.80   n.a.    n.a.
Regular Gasoline       0.65   1.40   3.00  7.00  11.30  21.50   30.50
Premium Gasoline       0.75   1.60   3.50  7.50  12.30  25.00   35.00
Kerosene               0.35   1.00   2.00  4.00   8.50  13.20   20.00
Gas Oil                0.42   1.00   2.00  4.00   8.50  15.90   24.00
Fuel Oil               n.a    n.a    1.46  1.95   n.a.   n.a.    n.a.
a/ April-October 1983.
b/ Since October 10, 1983.
53.       The recent devaluation has increased crude oil and other refinery
costs several times. At the o]Ld arrangement for retail prices, ex-pump
prices would also have increased accordingly. However, the political
environment in Ghana did not permit such a substantial price increase. The
Government therefore increased the old retail prices only by about 100
percent and the shortfall was being met through subsidies. The Government
has agreed with the IMF that it would further increase retail prices and
eliminate the subsidies by June 1984.  As a first stage increase, new
prices were announced in October 1983.



-  19  -
54.       Financial Position of GHAIP.  Audited financial statements of
GHAIP are available only up to 1980. Key indicators from the 1979 and 1980
financial statements are presented below:
GHAIP - Financial Summary
(million Cedis)
1979      1980
Net Income               2.1         2.1
Current Assets          28.7        31.2
Current Liabilities    18.8         21.2
Total Assets            35.6        42.2
Long-term Debt           0.0         0.0
Paid-in Capital         16.8        16.8
55.       GHAIP has no long-term debt and has maintained a reasonable
current ratio in the past. However, with an annual net income of 2.1
million Cedis, the profitability of the refinery is extremely low. In
addition, GHAIP is required to distribute 100 percent of its profits as
dividends to the Government, leaving no reserves to finance contingencies
and for necessary future investments. GHAIP's processing fee is determined
by the Petroleum Department allowing for a net income of 12.5 percent on
the paid-in capital. Since this is not adjusted with inflation, the
refinery profitability has been decreasing in real terms. The issue of
GHAIP's earning power will be addressed as a part of the Management
Improvement component of the proposed Project (see para 65). The
Government intends to allow GHAIP to retain a reasonable proportion of
its profits. Although the Government would determine the rate after review
of the recommendations of the Management Improvement consultants, the rate
is expected to be at least 20% of the profit.
Bank Group Role in Energy Sector
56.       Until recently, Bank Group lending in the energy sector focussed
exclusively on power projects. The power loans represented the largest
share (27 percent) of Bank Group commitments and consisted of three power
generation projects and three power distribution projects. In May 1983, a
US$11 million Energy Project (Cr. 1373-GH) was approved to accelerate
petroleum exploration. The project entails collection, processing and
evaluation of all past exploration data, acquisition of some new data as
well as evaluation of new seismic data to be acquired from a 7,300 km
survey financed by a private geophysical company. This work is expected to
provide the first countrywide assessment of the petroleum prospects
essential to intensifying petroleum exploration in Ghana. The project
became effective in August 1983 and is progressing in accordance with
appraisal targets.



- 20 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
57.       The Project was identified by an IDA mission that visited Ghana
in July 1982. The Project was appraised in March 1983 at which time the
Government also requested an advance under the Project Preparation
Facility. The advance was approved by IDA in July 1983. Negotiations for
the proposed Credit were held in Washington in November 1983; the Ghana
delegation was led by Mr. E. Appiah-Korang, PNDC Secretary for Fuel and
Power. Significant events and special conditions are summarized in
Annex III (Supplementary Project Data Sheet).
Prolect Objectives and Justification
58.       As discussed in para 48, the GRAIP refinery's existing processing
configuration is inconsistent with the demand profile of petroleum fuels in
Ghana, creating a product imbalance resulting in surplus low-value fuel
oil. In addition, due to lack of preventive maintenance in the past, the
refinery is in poor condition and suffers from high fuel consumption and
loss.es. The proposed Project would: (i) prepare detailed plans to
rehabilitate the refinery; (ii) provide technical assistance for studies to
revamp and rationalize the refinery to match its production to domestic
demand; (iii)improve its energy and operating efficiency; (iv) reduce ocean
freight losses and improve the crude handling system at the Tema harbour as
well. as in the refinery; and (v) improve the product distribution system in
the country, and thereby reduce the cost of petroleum consumed in the
country. The refinery rationalization studies would aim at determining
the most appropriate modification to the refinery to ensure a yield pattern
that. maximizes distillate products consistent with the country's
requirements. The energy and operating efficiency investments included in
this Project are very economic, yielding a high economic rate of return of
about 65 percent on the investment for rehabilitation and energy efficiency
improvement (para 68).
Pro'ject Scope and Description
59.       The proposed Project would include the following components:
(i)  Technical assistance for the execution of inspection of
refinery and crude handling facilities; surveyor's
inspection of the crude oil loading, transportation and
unloading system; studies related to demand forecast,
rehabilitation, revamping, maintenarnce improvements, energy
conservation, marketing and distribution facilities, and
training.
(ii) Technical assistance for feasibility studies for secondary
conversion options and bitumen manufacturing facilities,
Volta Lake transportation of petroleum products, single buoy
mooring (SBM) facility at Tema port, and lube blending
plant.



-  21  -
(iii) Technical assistance for the management improvement program.
(iv) Equipment and materials required immediately for
rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement.
60.       In view of the age of the refinery (about 20 years) and poor
maintenance practices in the past, a thorough inspection by a specialized
engineering firm was essential before the exact scope and cost of the
rehabilitation, revamping and energy efficiency improvement components of
the Project could be defined. The inspection has been completed and IDA
staff have discussed the results of the inspection with the consultants.
The consultants have outlined the general nature of immediate investments
required. These are estimated to cost about US$12.9 million (excluding
contingencies). The consultants' complete inspection report is expected to
be finalized shortly. GOG would review with GHAIP and IDA the consultants'
recommendations and take all action necessary and appropriate to enable
GHAIP to prepare a plan of action acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association (Section 3.03 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement). Any
additional investments in excess of that provided for in this project,
which the consultants may recommend, could be financed in a subsequent
project together with the secondary conversion facilities that would be
identified under this Project. There is no commitment, however, that the
Bank Group would participate in this follow-up project. The present
Project would be economic even if these additional investments and the
secondary conversion project are not implemented.
61.      Evaluation of alternative secondary conversion options would be
directed towards modifying the refinery to minimize fuel oil surpluses.
Preliminary analysis of four probable options--(i) thermal cracker; (ii)
fluid catalytic cracker; (iii) hydrocracker; and (iv) delayed coker--
carried out by Bank staff indicates that refinery modification based on any
of these options can result in substantial economic savings. A detailed
study to be carried out under the Project is, however, required to identify
and evaluate the benefits and potential risks of all the possible options
and to determine the optimum refinery configuration for Ghana. This study
would be carried out in two stages. During the first stage, consultants
would carry out preliminary evaluation of alternative secondary conversion
options to convert fuel oil into premium distillates, evaluation of
licensed know-how required for such options, and evaluation of installing a
bitumen plant to meet domestic requirements. At the completion of the
first stage of the secondary conversion study, GOG and GHAIP would review
with IDA the recommendations emanating from the study. The second stage
would include detailed analysis of, and preparation of a feasibility study
for the selected secondary conversion option including purchase of the
licensed know-how for such option. Upon completion of the first stage, the
Government would review the consultants' recommendations with GHAIP and the
Association. The Government would carry out the second stage of the study
according to a plan of action acceptable to the Association (Section
3.03(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
Project Cost and Financing
62.       Details of the Project cost and financing are presented in the
Credit and Project Summary on page (ii). The total cost including
contingencies, net of taxes (from which the Project would be exempt), is
estimated at about US$18.3 million, including US$16.7 million in foreign
exchange. The foreign exchange cost consists of US$16.7 million including
US$2.8 million for consulting services. Since GHAIP could not delay
ordering of some of the urgently required equipment and materials, the
Government provided about US$5.1 million in foreign. exchange from its own
sources.  The Government has also approached the European Investment Bank
(EIII) for financing. It is expected that EIB would provide about US$6.3
million, of which about US$1.6 million would be used to finance local
cost:s:j the remaining USS4.7 million would be used to finance foreign costs;
about US$1.9 million of this would be used to finance retroactively
equipment and materials already ordered. IDA disbursements for the
purchase of equipment and materials for rehabilitation works would not be
made before EIB financing is effective (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the
Deve!lopment Credit Agreement).
63.       The IDA Credit would be made to the Republic of Ghana on standard
terms. The Government would onlend US$2.9 million to GHAIP under a
subsidiary loan agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; the
interest rate would be consistent with terms recently agreed upon between
the Goverrnment and the IMF, but in no event less than 12 percent. The loan
would be repayable in 12 years including a three-year grace period (Section
3.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Pro-ject Execution
64.       The technical assistance component of the Project would be
executed over a 24-month period by a specially created Project
Implementation Committee set up within the Ministry of Fuel and Power with
the technical assistance of the foreign experts to be employed under the
Prolect. The refinery rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement
componient of the Project would be implemented by GHAIP through a
specially-created Project team. Three consulting firms would be engaged to
undertake different components of the Project. Consulting services for
studies on energy conservation, refinery rehabilitation and product
distrribution as well as feasibility studies for modernization of the
industry, costing about US$1.7 million, would be undertaken by a single
engineering consulting firm. The Government indicated that in view of its
good and long-established relationship with Bureau d' Etudes Industrielles
et ce Cooperation de L'Institut Francais du Petrole (BEICIP) of France, it
intEnded to retain it to carry out these studies. Given the existing
relationship with BEICIP, this arrangement is satisfactory to IDA.
Agreement between GOG and BEICIP has been executed and refinery inspection
completed. Licensed technology for secondary conversion, and process
design associated with it, costing about US$0.4 million would be selected



- 23 -
by international competitive bidding for which BEICIP would provide
necessary advice as consultant. Terms of reference for the engineering
consulting firm were reviewed by IDA staff and found satisfactory.
65.       Studies related to the Management Improvement Program and an
independent surveyor's inspection would be contracted separately to other
firms which would be selected on the basis of technical proposals from a
short list of firms in accordance with Bank guidelines. The terms of
reference for the Management Improvement Program have been discussed with
IDA and found satisfactory. The study would recommend, inter alia, a
methodology for determining the crude processing fee to be paid to the
refinery. It would also address issues related to the financial viability
of GHAIP and recommend improvements. The Government would complete the
study by July 1, 1984; and, by December 31, 1984, GOG would review with IDA
and GHAIP the recommendations for the development of the Management
Improvement Program and would prepare a plan of action, acceptable to IDA,
to implement the recommendations (Section 3.03 (d) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Bank Advance Under PPF
66.       The refinery was scheduled for maintenance shutdown in October
1983. IDA and the Ghanaian authorities agreed that the refinery inspection
be performed at that time in order to avoid any loss in production that
would be caused as a result of a separate shutdown for the inspection.
This maintenance shutdown was overdue by more than 18 months and could not
be postponed any further without compromising the safety of the refinery.
In order to recommission the refinery after the shutdown, certain essential
items (such as furnace tubes, heat exchange tubes, equipment for chemical
cleaning, etc.) were necessary and these needed to be procured prior to the
Shutdown. These items were not included in the items ordered with the funds
already provided to the refinery by the Bank of Ghana as part of the
Government's share of financing the Project. Given the country's economic
situation, it was unlikely that the Government could provide additional
foreign exchange to the refinery in a timely manner. Since procurement of
these items normally takes about five months, it was necessary that these
be procured at the earliest. The Government had requested IDA for an
advance of US$1.0 million equivalent to cover the inspection of the
refinery by the consultants and procurement of the essential items needed
to recommission the refinery after the October shutdown. Of the US$1.0
million, US$300,000 would be used to pay for equipment and materials
required to recommission the refinery after the October shutdown, and the
balance of US$700,000 used to pay for the inspection cost and continuing
work on the studies. On the basis of the urgency and necessity of the
inspection and related studies, IDA approved the PPF advance in July 1983.
This advance would be refinanced from the proposed Credit (Section 2.02 (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement). The refinery shutdown and inspection
have been successfully completed.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Equipment and materials to be financed by the IDA Credit would
include replacement parts of existing equipment, items to improve energy



-  24  -
effiLciency of the refinery, and small items whose individual cost would not
exceed US$50,000. Single source procurement would be used for the
rep]acement parts. Small items (costing up to US$50,000) would be procured
under contracts awarded after obtaining quotations from at least three
reputable suppliers. All other equipment and materials financed by IDA
Credit would be procured under ICB.  The total amount of equipment and
materials procured from propriety sources and limited quotations would be
limited to a maximum of US$1.0 million equivalent or about 28 percent of
the US$3.6 million of IDA Credit used 'or financing equipment and
materials. The total cost of IDA-financed consultants is US$3.3 million.
This is based on the requirement of 250 man-months of foreign technical
expertise at an average cost of US$13,000 per man-month including salaries,
social costs, profits, reimbtursable travel expenses and overhead. This
incLudes US$1.7 million for studies on energy conservation, refinery
rehabilitation and product distribution as well as feasibility studies for
modernization of the industry; consultants for these studies have already
been selected as specified in para 64. Consultants for the remaining
studies and supply of technology (US$1.6 million) would be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines. The IDA Credit would be disbursed against
100 percent of the foreign expenditures for services, training, equipment
and materials. Disbursements would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The proposed Project represents the first stage of a major effort
on t:he part of the Government to reduce Ghana's petroleum import bill. The
Pro`ect is expected to result in addiitional economic life for the refinery,
which, due to poor maintenance in the past, will not be able to operate
safely without the necessary investments included in the Project. The
rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvement elements included in the
Project are expected to reduce Ghana's petroleum import bill by about US$10
mill]ion per year and yield an economic return of about 65 percent and a pay
back period of about a year. This does not include foreign exchange
savings that would result from the reduction of ocean losses to be achieved
as a part of this Project. The full--scale refinery modification project
which is expected to emerge from this technical assistance project would
resull: in balancing refinery production with demand, thereby minimizing the
need to import distillate products and export surplus residual fuel oil at
dist:ress prices. The improved yield pattern will also reduce the total
crude processing requirements to meet the domestic product demand.
Preliminary analysis of the full scale modification project indicates an
economnic rate of return in the range of 19 to 25 percent.
69.       The Project is expected to contribute significantly to the
institutional development in the petroleum refining subsector. The
Management Improvement Program component of the Project will specifically
focus on improving organizational management, accounting and financial
management, and auditing of the two key companies in the refining
subsector, GHAIP and GOIL. No undue risks in implementation are foreseen.
However, delays in the appointment of consultants and release of payments
cou.d cause an overall delay in the project implementation; these risks
have been minimized by taking early steps in the recruitment of consultants
and advances through PPF.



-  25  -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Ghana and IDA, the draft Project Agreement between IDA and GHAIP, and the
Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the IDA Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
71.       The main features of the Agreement are referred to in the text of
this report and are listed in Annex III. The execution of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOG and GHAIP would be an additional condition of
Credit Effectiveness (Section 5.02 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). Furthermore, fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
first disbursement of the EIB Credit would be a condition of disbursement
against equipment and material procurement category under the refinery
rehabilitation component of the Project (Schedule 1, para 4 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington DC
February 23, 1984



- 26 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                      Page  1  of  5
GHANA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCCME
AREA (THO{lSAND SQ. KM)                   1960-1-b      1970-  ESTIMATE.-        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
TOTAL                                 238.5        238.5        238.5
AGRICJLTURAL                           65.4         61.4         62.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     190.0        260.0        400.0               254.6                      1147.9
ENERGY CONSUNFTlON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        104.0        266.0        268.0                79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AID VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    6804.0         8614.0      11830.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          23.3         29.1         36.6                19.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 24.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   85.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          28.5         36.1         48.2                29.5                        56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              104.0        140.2        184.6                94.1                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            44.5         45.8         46.8                45.0                        45.9
15-64 YRS                            52.9         51.6         50.5                52.1                        51.2
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6          2.7          2.7                 2.9                         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 4.4          2.4          2.9                 2.8                         2.8
URBAN                                 9.2          4.6          5.0                 6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           50.2         50.2         49.3                47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           20.3         16.9         13.4                19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.4          3.4                 3.2                         3.2
FAMTLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..          8.3         33.5/c
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          1.5          4.07 d-
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          93.0        101.0         72.0                87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         92.0         98.0         88.0                88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             43.0         51.0        44.0                 51.2                        56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           13.0         17.0         15.0/c              18.1                        17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            30.6         24.6         18.9                25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          44.8         49.9         54.5                47.4                        51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         142.9        121.6        101.0               126.5                       117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                             35.0         35.0/e              24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                  *-         86.0         86.07e              56.8                        70.5
RURAL                                             14.0         14.07-e             18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                             55.0         56.0/e              28.1
URBAN                                             9 92.0       95.c07e             65.7
RURAL                                             40.0         40.o77              21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            21600.0      12910.0/a    7630.0             27420.6                     12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              5430.0/f   1]070.0_{t      780.0              3456.2                      2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1290.0        760.0        660.0/c            1183.2                      1075.4
URBAN                               300.0/f      770.0        830.077             380.6                       402.3
RURAL                             47590.0/f      890.0        730.077            3177.5                      3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWlELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - - - - - _- - - - - -    - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - - - - - -



- 27 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E  3A
GHANA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb             RECENT   b           LW; INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970    ESTIM4AT/-       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     38.0        64.0         69.0                63.9                       97.2
MALE                     52.0         73.0        77.0                 73.6                      103.1
FEMALE                   25.0         54.0        60.0                 51.6                       88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      5.0        14.0         36.0                12.5                       17.2
MALE                      9.0         21.0        44.0                16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                    3.0          8.0        27.0                 8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)            12.6        23.3          3.5/d               7.3                         5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.0         30.0         27.0/d              46.4                       42.9
SECONDARY                           16.0LL       17.0         19.o7d              25.1                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               27.0/h       30.2           *                 36.5                       37.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             3.0         4.6          6.8/c               3.3                       18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          42.7         81.6        162.6                45.3                       97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               0.1/i       1.9          5.0                 2.2                       18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              30.0         48.2         30.5                 4.7                       18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         1.6         2.2          0.4                 1.0                        0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           2919.0       3421.n       4396.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    42.6         42.1         41.1                34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               64.0         58.0         53.0                76.9                       56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.0         17.0        20.0                  9.8                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.9         39.7         37.2                40.9                       37.0
MALE                                50.0         46.6         44.0                53.0                       47.1
FEMALE                              36.0         33.0         30.4                28.9                       27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1         1.2          1.3                 1.2                        1.3
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..           .
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..
LOWEST 40Z OP HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       307.0Jd             165.9                      534.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        150.07d              87.4                      255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..        156.0/d             100.8                      491.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        130.o07T             64.6                      188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ' '         ' '                            39.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1978; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g Registered, not all practicing in the country; /h Age 6 and over; /i 1964;
/-   Public Schools only.
May 1983



- 28 -                                                                                  ANNEX I
Pagae 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL iNMlCuT-S
.l.oteel ditf'oug  the  ccse   eed-t  sors  eeaLyjdgdte,otutioiano    odetcil,IncoPdas   o  oc   ta   he   a  ntb  ftratcal
desclis  ordeecof eadol-de, I,dldcen  treds, -ed-.t..tedccrti Jea.Jor diffeconce   befucoco- yie
The re:reoce  roups ae (I)  he ea  -oou prn Pnf  tihes-bj-eci tooctyhnd....a.ontr                                    hlro-p-eithsoehh..hig.anrgo--clloicouty groapo0thi
eubetocoutr  feoep  fo  'digt icie''Oilteprtrt'grAp   her  "Iidde  rcoc NrthOilouandridlefat' I  rtotn bcsctnenrngreooo-sltca
afintis.   n  herfernc   dropdsch              h  cu-rcgeI   are  popoh-tl M Idtgttd-.urNihltef  scan  fo   ah:3iuo   n  tonol0se   aoi    ftetnnisi
-' odf0fans  Pnpisinidit OPsti  ttei                                                                                              optetio  disidd   byoy     be  fprcicn
fo~~ ocope, pesturee , cerkef cod kitchen gurdene or to lie folios; 1960,          hurting octlllariet. H u
91  ad 19800 dat.                                                                                                                            _b.. o  yrHsialid-nta   rto, aniacl-Pepleo     ea
Aglil  --,.-ily                                          1, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~oba,  ndrcs1-  io fond it  titeI-- dcpcioed ubyco  hoPita P e-
ut   0  CPT    15f-Gtuerapislnese    ccrefsrktpirePciuOed   ubi   n  pitegees   ndseilie    opia   n
tacisr.    i . un .oesn.nt.daP              a           -d a'  At ias  f.117-, Osi960eoiiuioocnr ,optltaeehiiiene   etnTl   tie
duty  liPId, snd liti uco.                                                Op at deon r one chreicin    hnh itenayood                   yridnpips,,  ncrda
cue  r  nt  t .d  l ided. nuaby    yni .~i      itbc r  inlud  hes,ithad
tiNfO CP tdf0l5PO APITA (daaulupyrnoa ...oeniw   of                                                          allafob nc ics  rener  not" Peract dyeaidOspyiia   htb     e
eneryori   ouiad  loie    etntu,ntos  gseo   tdr-  cner                                           nfPtnt   oce   idfe   end.)- g--ci o-fe  i-psnlidanhannndst                   an
and1oo bcauinecrrnydn   lorud             o Amd        li:oen'   eropne                              ewiea  idte   sgeo  edol  ollte.   o    tuiis   oeee
INtO  ITYT, and 19ff lane                                                                          rc   oyrl   o  oe.C    rniajee                      hopiai ,I and.li rorsi
EnRCY CONSU~~~~PTIO~~ "I IAPITA                                                    . ~do Pi.i,oclror..piuendsdcaud..cipceee
POPOLuOlOfi NOD OITALSToTiSTICS                                                Spento --ee    hocdias  r P   t-   e   oily 1under-rorsi.
Tnri  oyleion  hd-ea  (iteoode  -Os  f  nd   i   90.   Th  ad    iludantoi  dr Ooyos  fd    Tosinoite o  ueicinetoo   dtttugd
Pli-i'Y P-9Y '-l -d  -I,    --1        -d,~         ~      ~     ~    ~    ~foe  oe otec  in deditp_t                       yaen     he.ph.j.  b    y .dla
_rta  dorlatonf c-rnn                                                                                                                         - otaf -daioff_riinnoon_i op_,fer
differnt deIndln   fois   ressyefc    opariti iy   iatdOih
anog  outne  ;   to   id,  ndHiddcc.                                      ocogetioo   oosesoifnceosor huetod)-ond.sba.an    ers
PoyUAoiJon APDoVToL TiAoIISTIooeoi  noooet  ofogopohidodul                                                                                                        lt   hr - i-ioig   urtr
~ywanlt  i yarDOO  -Cwneniyooladn   prjet fnes-~  hardon   iCcoofofr  oOnsels.0 oareror  oder  ay  r  ay-othe  enude-                          i
enipplErc   iY aean   e  an-d)  rteirf soctalin  an_ttiptehoniodfrseisio    sco
canes.  Pojeoniorpurasetee  forrorul ieyraes 9oepr 19ofnnrd                       doeogtone   oyoeoe   e                  doo -n lyiunta-d   odo-i e-agnobe
dabylti 1ai-cn   leuci., sodfecl   fecpoer                  iiiigo:7.                                dseligt  ronionoolr    alog etluew-prnnsrnread
dfears   The poron-nec  foreriii)       c          re ln   Ocetre   lneo-1ope   pars.llb
:nseinderfir -fe -ol      --awo_iygo         ..n . Pllnlooy'etaiy d-otetiocfecoooelne)scdsbn    oeri
cicen   pcoeawt    actcon-fisiTsed1e97eo0tre  in                                               wosti-d       sllnn   ld   lctii1           o  iin    oacrsO
20       Is 1,sheedoldftrfcrleieewvjsedtrfoetdoo
'eriiesonitreyinecett  Icolof   oirinceyrdoncitcec~,oitn                        rt;uryshonl-osol,calotdtesie-Crtotoai,  sitoodnced
cart 5eneranoooofoonenrepiucnitneif  wouttly.  Thesnerionay                         nooisosfiioeattri'iinlil'tetae
lipfetne  ine Ps  -ele cd on sit nad   f        rjwtditrct-                                  ren    scto_-g   pepoln s  nosip  tlde    hide   gd -Il
stit -o to  p-o1nn    Onte  er  00,ad   r  rn  o   coit  fyer I __tohb udoee   o  difeet  logt  of- -edn-ny e                                                      --ron   for
Poelara   16..9.,  o   Hid dot                - aopleoouly-f dPtll  eanCo o_;,orr.p.decI                                                                                ot,Iat
-obisnio     - Owe Structure    aeru   f- Cilde,o  f-id  yef)P     wk,gf    e   I                     oioeetde,  noifl   c  te   r  cussA  toert   need
ioy...ef, eodrrni-e(iyernc    onrafecttoofndpor-eycedcenln   ofunoiduyio                                                                                      q--o
yopiatn. 90.90,.od Ni dhe                                                                            l-ooit -cti-rdeary-             adscoan-os    idn    enidi
yen   pnslstot;INt, lOi,  rd   Oi dos.                                                  OObPTI.OdO-a~
yn0oietdn; iNNO   970, andIOu 2d 00a                                                       curosrort-g  ite-Ii-uneog-t-yrs-h--        end -odesd hnuuneldt-ane  n
Oeece.!oRosfrosAys3o(o  - do eruge hun her oi daughters aj-P0  f.,wdif neartinPedtit                                        I
esniloty  reset, oe       -cidy   fiera -orgsndn    n00   91   n                             broudcatnhogee-ul toldc  ye d         huud  fppo-in  sear      cdaiode   on-1
901.                                                                   lictnnodreceiotte~~~~~~P"  in corre    ndo   rr   t ntgsr-dtfo
lnTcnc aop                                                                p-idnfc                    ho-ohillI--l-ffn  ionocrw-
rIol  O'.: hIt ItI)h                                                                                        'I  fzzoe''co  colt'.PfinconY  ecooic2
lidn"fc00  Prdoolo,_no lodn   fd_itP<- >     nfco o   c7rf                                         1c                               ~   c'    oglr     we.d  ocroet
lonyoi  folcendomn.   ro  ccotenOoenneden                     r  c   dcc"ifdlocooeorlesti u
icdon   s  ccoeda    oo"oIs              oeoir"cIot  reny00c   t..lono_tou .                                       dnooedn....she    en-noOo
eoi acane   nnne oof saun)  rioc   cncdltlcnccottoctonretnn   e.9.dlccnnooddorlcohcmnu,iocidioiooiseOnsno eV-e-o-ineo-on
Oaf   doiiai   opltontdednei  prduton,Onntelesd                                                                    -uaon   o  ir sAt.    efn,sor  O
en fonoO   i1n. 5d0t-60, 19607, and 1 970d8t.                                                oAd      lorci  ,etn  n   a   t  erttgeo d`    lhrfrt      iO
Pe _aht sop_oarti    gascr  a)-Poenonnopedp,n9?nd10   es
ne   upld   o   nn   e                      LyiSeenPO  o   oo   s  eiedbille"fcioyninOue(etef  _f_l  si,  n  fei-PrOrptinw
tIuieenc    tn1il60 neie   ePailhdbyOi                         ---oidt fo  -dtio                      IOot   ue   rcczytdu   oe ,sl,ud _eueiio   oon
al_   acenet    rcoron                rten19ueol                nn  oednnfpnOnos  chnO   sseofiOeoooono-                                                              snreyniey
poeepntiia      f  hchhIgesnoodpe-tnO   roen.TendIh,  97,uh   f9   odC                                                                 hnrtcnoc   n  lO          eri iecnrue
ntoadatnwrianneolOatfnalpocnnlbru                                                            elconooseno19 Pf-typoaOooloonnncd 
yernsidanottotoyOl  ftononfei P0 .P-i o..-Pctinuopyo   oo                                      eno1mo    ho-c-d
datze. y    l_ __Jp  OnisrOitTif.Oi
hh5n  agnn1-1  eoittu  pr  hosud) -dwino    es-   per0 tocud I                            eooenfcon    noc(omI   orudco)-tcOe   t   ihn
ugeonnpl-Oearnnccitddre   innileeg   groo;focosodooiopio                            pcctr.7richnnllrrroc-dooren  1  f- rctl ,                 dywocue  0  p---    ne o
coconnoen dano dcrooso  Proc dlft cuhlen1  hid, 19I71 olio-dth-atf dfPa.                                                              tilo;  .. on.
es tirn ; iStI, 070 acd0991  unn.                                                       soold  hOtlnrlccbnocdot              _dnrnhlnc_oc _o
infatdniallyiaeoyenl-d-a-p-ucofdeehl,  of                    Pinf.nd.o..dcro- CnoucdsldrncdlfocerSptuitu- -itnwetoo
peseofous  ysrnroonurdiooncicnhill9id,Olydarditildoio                               fhsofoc_  ,ro hndoOc--toiinohnosionbe--hcret                                    -
OcesofSf  Oo:lct--olpplain   -coO Uorhuo, noddc-oral -                                             ocleOtiRn.  d         ..r od und lIe:  I__ctnilin-odrqicsn eo
Notitczfynpletneu,urht, odrorifoit   resonnbourrnonoafeP_fonu-i-
fceetoe    tyh  condrt   s  cn0cdii  tnoutl  soenw  ttn                                      noenn    o       iftln   coi't tono   -och    nts  iatll ( --cn
hos.-     ncd     itssceo-iacenoc-spritehho.eoornoc......cicpIilouroodrn1fhotiettot
thedayin ft ichina tIi-e feil  e-e-         eee
dcceestohcrens  SiPo.....recTt of1opotbiorlton-, orbo-en
rocl-nnerfrorc             poni-wrd-O.undnotul_ sdrned-yseccdsu
di hpso    g- percen doesf-the, re9co0in  pudseoi..  f-crdl  Iieo-s
sannloeteoticsonndiooeloldPcozhontef-oi-,ficlweIntosaeenwto
hoonccntssdneiwoscn   yoI-doonyi-u r'loe9ro                                                                                            ccolccuroeodrdrnonDeatno
yniosundsinlotietdells       PAOnnbfr-90



- 29 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
GHANA ECONOMIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1982: US$360 I/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCr 1N 1982                                                 ANNUAL RAIE OF GRCWTH
(%/, Constant Prices)
Cedis Min.              %                        1977-82
GNP at Market Prices                    85,700             100.00                        -0.86
Gross Domestic Investment                1,148               1.30                       -16.40
Gross National Savirg                    1,259               1.50                       -16.45
Current Account Balance                    --46             -0.05                         -
Export of Goods, NFS                     2,009               2.34                        -9.44
Import of Goods, NFS                     1,959               2.29                       -20.22
OUTPLJT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1982                             Labor Force, 1982
Cedis Min.           %                   Min.           %
Agriculture                             44,031              51.28                2.509          57.2
Industry                                 6,440               7.50                0.671         15.3
Services                                35,395              41.22                1.206         27.5
Total                                   85,866             100.00                4.386         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Govermnient
Cedis Min.   % of GDP in 1981   Cedis Min.   % of GDP in 1982
Total Revenue and Grants                4,855.3            6.33         5,253.2             6.12
Total Expenditure and Net Lending       9,702.9           12.66         9,220.1            10.74
Overall Deficit (-)                    -4,847.6           -6.32        -3,966.9            -4.62
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976     1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982
P4oney and QOasi-imoney                 1,903    3,044    5,131    5,942    7,949   12,029   15,072
Bank Credit to Public Sector            1,966    3,203    5,636    6,537    8,481   14,043    1,714
Bank Credit to Private Sector             385       560      739      7%        940    1,342    1,558
(Percentages of Index Numbers)
14bney and Quasi-money as % of GDP       29.2      27.3     24.4     21.1      19.4     15.7      17.6
General Price Index (1977=100)           46.2    100.0    173.1    267.3    401.2   868.6   1062.4
1/   Staff estimate
September 1983



- 30-                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
B_JICE OF PAY)ENTS                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1982)
1980    1981   1982 1                             US$ Min.   %
(US$ million)
Cocoa Beans & Products  654.5    72.9
Trade Balarnre            184.3   22.3   98.2         Tinber Logs & Products   38.2       4.3
Exports                 1208.9  766.3  627.2         Gold                     135.1    15.0
Imports                -1024.6  -788.7  -529.0       Dianxids                  10.3      1.1
Marganese                 9.6      1.1
Invi,sibles (Net)        -168.0  -140.4  -114.8       All Other Goods           50.1      5.6
Services                -247.7  -223.3  -197.2
Trarnsfers                79.7   82.9   82.4         Total                    897.8   100.0
Current Blance             16.3  -162.7  -16.6
EaRNAL DEBT, DEMB   1982 -
Capital Accounts                                                                       US$ Min.
Official Capital (Net)    187.9   57.3  149.7
Private Capital (Net)     19.8   26.3   31.7         Total Outstandirg and
Arrears Paynmnts          78.9  141.4   35.2           Disbursed M&LT                   1163.6
Total Outstandirg and
overall Balance            81.5  -262.5   56.4          Disbursed incl. Short-term       1648.6
Gross International
Reserves (End of Period)  197.6   189.8  223.9       DEBT SERICE RATIO FOR 1981          %
Total Outstandirg and
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                           Disbursed MOLT                   10.7
US$ = 01.15                                  Total Outstanding and
Disbursed incl. payment arrears  17.9
Since August 26, 1978
US$ = 02.75                                  IBRD/IDA LENING (March 31, 1983)
IBRD     IDA
Outstanding and
Disbursed            130.2   122.1
Undisbursed             18.9    94.2
Outstanding, incl.
Undisbursed          149.1   216.3
1/  Provisional estimates subject to change.
2/  Includes errors and omissions.
3/  Actual data not available. Estinates only.
Septimber 1983



- 31 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT (as of November 30, 1983)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                                           Less Cancellation2/
Number      Year                 Borrower                  Purpose       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Seven loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                           136.5   89.9
531-GH       1975     Republic of Ghana Oil   Oil Palm                           13.6        0.5
1122-GH     1975      Post & Telecom'tions    Telecommunications         23.0                9.1
1180-GH     1975      Republic of Ghana         National Investment
Bank                   10.0               0.3
1291-GH3/   1976      Republic of Ghana         Agricultural
Development            21.0               5.7
901-GH      1979      Republic of Ghana         Second NIB                       19.0       11.6
1009-GH     1980      Republic of Ghana         Agricultural
Development                    29.5      25.8
1029-GH     1980      Republic of Ghana         Third Highway                    25.0        7.14/
1170-GH     1981      Republic of Ghana         Railway                          29.0      23.7T/
1342-GH     1983      Republic of Ghana        Water Supply                      13.0      11.8T/
1327-GH     1983      Republic of Ghana         Reconstruction CIMAO              9.3       9.Ow
1373-GH     1983      Republic of Ghana        Energy Project                    11.0      10.24/
1393-GH     1983      Republic of Ghana         Reconstruction Import  _ _ 40.0            34.0X/
Total                                             190.5  279.3      148.8
of which has been paid                            47.3    3.0
Total now outstanding                             143.2  276.3
Amount sold                    0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4                    0.0      0.0
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                                            143.2   276.3
Total undisbursed                                  15.1   133.7    148.8
1/  The status of the projects listed in this part is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
T/ Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
4/ Calculated at the November 30, 1983 rate of SDR1 = US$1.05058.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
GHANA - PETROLEUM REFINERY REHABILITATION
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project      About 9 months (July 1982 to March
1983)
(b)  Project prepared by                 Ministry of Fuel and Power and GRAIP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   July 1982
(d)  Identification Mission          :  July 1982
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   March 1983
(f)  Negotiations                        November 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness :  May 1984
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) GRAIP to prepare a plan of action acceptable to IDA to implement
recommendations of independent surveyor to reduce ocean losses
(para 48).
(b) GOG to review with IDA the refinery inspection report and prepare
a plan of action to implement measures for refinery
rehabilitation, revamping and energy efficiency improvements
(para 60).
(c) Government to carry out the second stage study for secondary
conversion according to plan acceptable to IDA (para 61).
(d) Government to complete Management Improvement Program Study by
July 1, 1984 and by December 31, 1984 prepare a plan of action to
implement recommendations (para 65).



U P P E R                -         O   L   A'
KS                    -  -  -       ,              ?t      k4                     .'    j k,U                                      -
B LGATANGA  ~  < 
U   P  \?   E   R    .EG                           N .:-  -R  E  G  I-
N7
i    f C ) '   ta                                  d"t    0 <  gf  0 Xp                                       C 
>                                                                                                    7  aey4    ?>{-
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                          .     V   :    
Be R , T R
- -t,-
,k-                                                     GHAPIA
I~~~~~~~~~~~RD



