OFIC~IL CREDIT NUMBER 1446 GH
DOCUNI'rTS
Project Agreement
(Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation
and Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GHANAIAN ITALIAN PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
Dated       1       CQ QL         , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1446 GR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        /&(o rtS   z'        , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and GHANAIAN ITALIAN PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter called GHAIP).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the
Borrower or Ghana) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in variois
currencies equivalent to six million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that GRAIP agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a, subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GHAIP, part of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be relent to GHAIP on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS GRAIP, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GRAIP shall carry out Part D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and petroleum practices,


﻿-2-
To that end, GHAIP shall, until completion of the Project, main-
tain in existence a Project team on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) GHAIP undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by GHAIP to replace or repair such goods.
(b) GHAIP shall cause all goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of Part D of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) GHAIP shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
:eports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) GHAIP shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part D of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in such Part of the Project; (ii) ena-
ble the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part D of the Project and to exa-
mine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part D of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by GHAIP of any contract for goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association


﻿- 3 -
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly aftor completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between GHAIP and
the Association, GHAIP shall, in cooperation with the Borrower,
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of Part D of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by GRAIP and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(e) GHAIP shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of GHAIP and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. GRAIP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GHAIP shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) GRAIP shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part D of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) GHAIP shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part D of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GHAIP of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) GHAIP shall, upon completion of Part A.2
of the Project, review with the Borrower and the Association the
recommendations emanating from the inspection included therein
and, promptly upon completion of such review, take all action


﻿-4-
necessary and appropriate to prepare a plan of action acceptable
to the Association to implement such recommendations, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
(b) GHAIP shall, upon completion of Part A.6 of the
Project, review with the Borrower and the Association the recom-
mendations emanating from the inspection included therein and,
promptly upon completion of such review, take all action neces-
sary and appropriate to prepare a plan of action acceptable to
the Association to implement such recommendations, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
(c) GRAIP shall, by December 31, 1984, review with the
Borrower, the Association and GOIL the recommendations emanating
from the study included in Part C of the Project and take all
action necessary and appropriate to prepare a plan of action
acceptable to the Association to implement such recommendations,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GHAIP
Section 3.01. GHAIP shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and petroleum practices under the super-
vision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. GRAIP shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and petroleum practices.
Section 3.03. GHAIP shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. GRAIP shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 5-
Section 4.02. GHAIP shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses, funds flow statements
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Assoc-iation
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GHAIP thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 14 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If   the Development Credit Agreement     terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
GHAIP of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For GHAIP:
P.O. Box 599
Tema
Ghana
Telex:
2011
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement or Section 2.10 of the Development Credit Agreement on
behalf of GHAIP may be taken or executed by the Managing Director
or such other person or persons as GHAIP shall designate in
writing, and GHAIP shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     tsd1(k9VA.
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANAIAN ITALIAN PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
By                  AuthrId    Rps ena
Authori.zed Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Ghana


﻿- 9 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 10 --
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Replacement parts required for Part D of the'Pro-
ject, which need to be compatible with existing
equipment may be purchased directly from the ori-
ginal suppliers.
(b) Goods (other than the replacement parts referred
to above) required for Part D of the Project may
be procured under contracts awarded after obtain-
ing quotations from at least three (3) qualified
suppliers  eligible   under  the  "Guidelines   for
Procurement  under   World  Bank   Loans  and   IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977.
2.   It is specified that the cost of goods which may be
procured as provided in paragraph      1 above shall not exceed
$1,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information


﻿- 11 -
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall nct,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   q       day of 4T l,
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


