Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13079-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1995
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
LekprUS$:   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995 (July)
Lek per US$:    8        15      70      100      95          90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIA: FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AAIB      Arab Albanian Islamic Bank
ADA       Albanian Dairy Association
AIB      Albanian-Italian Bank
APD      Agro-processing Department (of the MAF)
APO      Agricultural Program Office (of the MAF)
ASAC       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
BOA      Bank of Albania
BOD      Biological Oxygen Demand
CIP     Critical Imports Project
DB      Dardania Bank
EFSAC       Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
GOA       Government of Albania
IKU      Food Research Institute
ILU      Independent Lending Unit (in the RCB)
IPBU      Agricultural and Food Design Institute
IVR      Institute of Veterinary Research
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NCB      National Commercial Bank
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PFA      Private Farmers Association
PMU-IRP       Project Management Unit of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
PPF      Project Preparation Facility Advance
RCB      Rural Commercial Bank
SB     Savings Bank
TSU      Technical Services Unit



ALBANIA
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   .....................................    i
1. AGRICULTURE  AND LIVESTOCK  SECTOR   ............................   1
A.       Agricultural Situation   ......................................   I
B.       Livestock Production .......................................   2
C.       Agriculture Services  .......................................   3
II. AGRO-PROCESSING SECTOR .....                                .......................                               5
A.       Overview  of the Sector  .....................................   5
B.       Meat Processing ..........................................   6
C.       Flour Mills and Pasta Factories  ................................   6
D.       Vegetables and Fruit Processing  ................................   7
E.       Vegetable Oils ...........................................   8
F.       Alcoholic and Non-alcoholic Beverages  ...........................   8
III. DAIRY SUB-SECTOR  ......                          .........................                                      9
A.       Milk Production and Supply  ..................................   9
B.       Milk Processing  .........................................    10
C.       Product Distribution  ........  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
D.       Product Quality  .........  .            .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .    11
E.       Trade and Prices  ........  .           .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .  11
IV. INSTITUTIONAL  FRAMEWORK    ..................................    13
A.       Ministry of Agriculture and Food  ..............................    13
B.       Technical Institutions and Associations ...........................   13
C.       Rural Financial Sector .....................................    15
D.       Coordination with Donors   ..................................    17
E.       Rationale for IDA  Involvement  ...............................    17
V. PROPOSED  PROJECT   ......                     ....................................    18
A.       Project Objectives ........................................   18
B.       Project Justification and Scope ................................                                   18
C.       Project Description  .......................................   19
D.       Project Costs and Financing   .................................    21
E.       Environmental Aspects   .................................                                          21
F.  Impact on Women ................................... 22
G.  Impact on Poverty ................................... 23
H.       Project Benefits and Risks   ..................................    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Albania in June 1994 (and follow up missions in
May/August 1995), comprising Vinod K. Goel (EMTPS), Task Manager; the pre-appraisal mission in January 1994 also
included Caspar Wamaars, Ibrahim Hackaj (EC2AL), Garry Smith (FAO), Bansi Amna and Christer Cronberg (Consultants);
Michael Koch and Ewald Goetz (EC2AU) contributed to the aspects related to the Financial Sector, and Trade and Prices,
respectively. Michel Debatisse (EMTAW) and T. Schillhom-Van Veen (AGRTN) were the Peer Reviewers. The Division
Chief is Rory O'Sullivan (EC2AU), and the Department Director is Kemal Dervis (EC2DR).



VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....                       ......... .        ..........                          24
A.  Project Organization and Management.24
B. Procurement.25
C.      Disbursements ..........................................   27
D.      Supervision, Monitoring, and Reporting ..........................   28
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATION   ..................   28
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.1     Rural Population, Villages and Farms by District, 1994.......... 30
1.2  Farmers Micro-Enviironment ..................31
1.3     Livestock (Ruminants) by District, 1994 ..             ............ 32
1.4     Milk Production by District, 1994................. 33
2.1     Pasta Factories: Condition and Production (August '94).......... 34
3.1     Dairy Plants, Cheese Plants and Milk Supply, 1990 ..             ......... 35
3.2     Milk Processing Capacity of Large and Medium  Dairy Plants........ 36
3.3     Farm  Production Model: Milk Production Gross Margins ..                ....... 37
4.1     Organization Structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and  Food ..             ..... 38
4.2  Rural Commercial Bank....................                                                           1
5.1   Entrepreneurs Support Program ..................
6.1   Project Implementation Plan..................                                                      1
6.2  Project Procurement Plan...................                                                         5
6.3   Disbursement Schedule.....................6
6.4   Project performance Indicators..................                                                   7



ALBANIA
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Albania (GOA).
Executing
Agencies:          Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) and the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB).
Beneficiaries:     Private Agriculture Entrepreneurs, Farmers and Farmers' Associations.
Credit Amount:    SDR 4.1 million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Forty years with a ten year grace period, at standard IDA charge.
Objectives:        To support the development of the agro-processing sector and to help improve the
conditions for financing its restructuring through the financial sector in order to
improve marketing of farm outputs (thereby improving rural incomes) and
availability of food products to the urban consumer.
Description:       The proposed project consists of Investment Credit and Entrepreneurs Support
components. The Investment component would provide a line of credit for
onlending by the RCB, at market rates, to the private agriculture enterprises,
farmers and farmers associations for long-term (and permanent working capital)
loans.
The Entrepreneurs Support component would assist agro-processing enterprises but
would focus on the dairy industry and would include relevant assistance to the RCB
for the appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. The project would provide funds
for experts and related expenses for: (i) long and short term experts in various
fields; (ii) direct technical assistance and training/study tours to entrepreneurs (and
their associations) in agro-processing, organization of private farmers associations,
processing, quality assurance, management, marketing and other business aspects;
and (iii) limited assistance to local institutions to strengthen their technical services
and quality control law enforcement capabilities.
Environmental
Aspects:          This project has been assigned a category "B" environmental rating. Although this
rating indicates the possibility of specific environmental impacts with regards to
discharges from agro-processing plants, the project is expected to result in an
overall improvement in the environment. The Independent Lending Unit (ILU) of
the RCB would review each sub-project for compliance with Albanian
Environmental legislation and World Bank Environmental guidelines. During
implementation, mechanisms would be established to monitor effluent standards.
Benefits:          The project would contribute several benefits to the Albanian economy. It would
help restructuring of agro-processing enterprises. It is expected to help put into
place a market access to farmers to sell milk and other farm products thereby
reducing their wastage and encouraging improved farm production thus help
increasing rural incomes. The urban consumers would benefit from the supplies of



(ii)
quality food products. It would make strides in institution-building and improving
entrepreneurship and human capital through training and technical support. Since
the dairy sector contributes as much as 10% to the nation's GDP the project could
have a significant impact on the Albanian economy.
Risks:              The project would carry significant risks. Given weak institutional capacity, the
implementation may be slow; this risk would be mitigated by the use of foreign
experts with Albanian professionals by engaging an experienced foreign firm. The
demand for processed products may be less; this risk is considered low given that
processed products are still scarce in Albania so that a substantial part of the
demand is not being met at present. The private entrepreneurs may be reluctant
to borrow loans at market rates; discussions with private and public sector entities
have revealed strong interest in loans as there is a shortage of long-term investment
funds. The other major risk would be institutional capacity of the RCB to be able
to service loans and monitor their performance; this risk is being addressed under
the ASAC project through the provision of appropriate technical assistance to the
ILU/RCB; the proposed project also includes technical assistance to the ILU. The
ASAC and EFSAC projects are dealing with the issue of restructuring/privatization
of the RCB. Other potential risk relates to the possibility of regional hostilities.
Estimated Project Costs:
LOCAL  FOREIIGN   TOTAL
(US$'00 EQUFVALENT)
ENTREPRENEU  SUPPORT
Technical Assistance              100      720      820
Equipment and Vehicles             70      760      830
Study Tours snd Tniining           10      140       150
Other                              90       ----     90
Contingencies                      30      180      210
INVESTMENT CREDIT                 500    4,500    5,000
TOTAL                             800    6,300    7,100
Financing Plan:
(IJS$ MILUON EQUIVALENT)
IDA                6.0
Netherlands        1.0
Government        0.1
Total              7.1
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:
(US$ MIUON EQUIVALNT)
FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Annual           0.7    1.5    2.3    1.5
Cumulative       0.7    2.2    4.5    6.0
Rate of Return:      At least 12% on the Investment Component
Poverty Category:  Program of Targeted Interventions
Map:                 IBRD No. 27152, Country map of Albania



ALBANIA
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK SECTOR
A.    Agricultural Situation
1.1    With almost two thirds of the Albanian population of 3.2 million residing in the rural areas, more
than half of the total economically active population is employed in the agricultural sector. A large part
of the industrial sector, which used to employ about 25 percent of the economically active population,
concerned the food processing industry, which was largely dependent on the primary agricultural sector.
This industry has completely collapsed since 1989. Due to the slow growth of employment in the
industry and services sectors, in the past the policv of the Government was to retain surplus labor in the
agricultural sector.
1.2    Before 1990, there were no private farmers, 75 percent of the rural population was dependent
on cooperative farms for its living while the remaining 25 percent worked on state farms. With the
collapse of the collective production system, the land and the cattle were divided amongst the workers
of the cooperatives and state farms, and the rural families have become private farm families. Most of
the land previously controlled by the cooperatives (75 percent of arable land) and state farms (25 percent
of arable land) has been privatized, creating about 492,000 very small private farms each with 0.8 to
3.3 hectares of land (average 1.43 ha), the majority of which has one or two cows (Annex 1.1); some
30,000 rural families are without land. There is an overpopulation of farmers and thus large
underemployment persists in the sector.
1.3   In the past, an important objective of the Government was the achievement of food self-
sufficiency in the major staple crops. With input and output marketing controlled by the state, and prices
and subsidies set by the state in a way that bore no relation to costs, huge inefficiencies in production
were maintained. The result was self-sufficiency at a high cost. After the collapse of the centralized
agricultural production system agricultural production first declined, the result of farmers inability to
cultivate all fields during a fairly chaotic land distribution process. With land distribution almost
complete, agricultural production is increasing, however, shortages of inputs and absence of adequate
collection, marketing and processing systems remain serious constraints. While Albania is no longer
dependent on food-aid imports, it is far from attaining its former status as a net food exporter.
1.4   Farmers Micro Environment. The newly privatized farmers are now focusing on subsistence
farming, with some surplus available to the market, mainly to generate cash for the purchase of other
essential commodities. Most farms produce both crop and other products, with wheat and maize still the
main crops despite a marked shift in land use. Production of industrial crops has fallen, due to the
inability to process crop products. Meat and milk are presently the main products sold through town
markets. Wheat would also gain importance as an income source as production rises. Cattle and other
livestock were distributed together with the land resulting in farmers consigning to fodder crop - mostly
alfalfa - that portion of their land surplus to grain self-sufficiency requirement. Many farmers are now



increasing their livestock holdings; however, feed supply remains a major constraint to improved
livestock productivity. Farm fragmentation and the breakup of the mechanization network has led to
some increase in the use of traction power. Farmers are finding it difficult to market products due to lack
of adequate marketing and processing facilities. Annex 1.2 presents some key characteristics of the
present small farmer production system in Albania.
B.    Livestock Production
1.5    Livestock is an important sector in the Albanian economy accounting for about half of the GDP
added by the agricultural sector. The production of milk, mainly from cows, but also from sheep and
goats, has always been the principal focus of livestock production, while meat was seen mainly as a by-
product of the dairy sector. In 1989, milk accounted for 43 percent of the value of livestock products
(of this 20 percent was from sheep and goats) and meat for 31 percent. Free market forces however, are
likely to change this relationship where meat production represented between 38 and 48 percent of gross
value of production.
1.6   In 1994, the cattle population was estimated at 743,500 head (Annex 1.3), of which 400,300 or
54 percent were milking cows as compared to 640,000 head in 1991, (306,000 milking cows), an increase
of 16 percent. The rising level of breeding females in the national cattle herd also indicates the priority
farmers give to milk production and suggests the early turnoff of progeny for meat, probably at sub-
optimal weights. In 1992 cattle population was estimated at only 566,000 head (of which 324,000
milking cows). This initial fall in cattle numbers was probably the result of small holder capitalization
through slaughter of stock acquired following the distribution of formerly cooperative-owned herds,
combined with a particularly severe feed shortage during the 1991/92 winter. The strong growth
thereafter was aided by a good summer fodder season in 1993 and a mild 1993/94 winter and the
continuing control of most diseases. In 1994, the sheep population of 2.01 million included 1.48 million
ewes (74%), and has already increased by more than 18 percent over the 1991 population, as has the goat
population of some 1.39 million (up 16% over the 1991 level) which includes 1.01 million milking goats
or 73 percent of the total population. The growing small ruminant population is likely the result of
smallholder farmer access to previously under-utilized hill-side grazing. Meat, formerly produced in
specialized industrial estates in the case of pigs and poultry, and food lots with cattle, is now mostly in
the mixed smallholder farming sector with offtake at much lower ages and liveweights (12-18 months and
180-250 kg for cattle) due to the feed deficit.
1.7    Livestock is now entirely privately held. While most of the 492,000 private farms have
livestock, the number per farm remains very small. According to the 1993 livestock statistics, 35 percent
of the farms do not have a (milking) cow, 58 percent of the farms has one cow, while only 7 percent
(representing about 27,000 farms) has more than one cow. The overall average of 0.73 cows per farm
varies little between the plains (0.74) and the mountainous districts (0.70). Some 60 percent of all farms
has at least one sheep and 45 percent at least one goat. The number of farms with more than 10 (adult
female) sheep or goats is very limited, with 9 percent of the farms having more than 10 ewes and 8
percent with more than 10 milking goats. The milking sheep and goat population average of 4.80 per
farm, varies from 4.04 in the plains to 6.29 per farm in the mountainous districts, reflecting the better
access to natural pasture grazing lands in the uplands. Given the rate of growth in the sheep and goat
populations - already over 10 percent since 1991 - the development of systems to sustainable exploit
natural grazing lands would be critical to the development of the small ruminant sub-sector. The plains
districts, including the coastal districts and Korca/Devoll, with 72 percent of the total population and 73
percent of the arable area, has 68 percent of the total number of milking cows, about 60 percent of the
milking sheep and 50 percent of the milking goats.



- 3 -
1.8    Milk Yield. Average milk yield on the cooperative farms used to be quite low (about 1,250 kg);
the situation on the state farms was better with an average annual yield of 2,750 kg. The overall 1989
figure was 1,470 kg and has
risen by 6 percent to 1,560 in
1994.  Government  estimates
show cow milk yields ranging                  Table 1.1 Average NiLk Yield in 1994
sbow  cow milk yields ranging                            nkglyear)
from above 1,800 kg per year in                  -          yer
the central plains districts of        L       _     Cows        Sheep     G"ts
Fier, Lushnje and Durres to as          plains       .1.805       49         86
low as 1,000 kg in upland Has           Mouta.ir     1,018        43      -5
district. Sheep and goat milk           National     1.560        47        85
yields show a lesser spread, with      L-Sp-d (')    177%        114%       1 %
annual sheep milk yields ranging
from  33-56 kg and goat yields          Source: Albania: Agriculture and Food Statistics, 1994
from 71-98 kg. It is not clear
whether these yields represent
total production or marketable
product after allowance for
rearing of progeny. While there is a large spread in cow milk yields between plains and mountainous
districts CTable 1.1), reflecting the greater dependence of cattle on cultivated fodder, the spread for sheep
and goats is far less, the latter species showing similar yields in mountainous and plains areas. Milk
production by district is provided in Annex 1.4.
1.9    Animal Feed. Until the breakdown of the collective system, Government policy was to be self-
supporting for both crop and livestock products, even with a rapidly increasing population. This has
resulted in an increasing competition for land between food and feed production, resulting in shortages
of roughage and animal feed. Livestock on the small private farms is now being better taken care of than
the cattle on the cooperative farms in the past, as is reflected in the increasing average milk yields.
Overall, the production of roughage has increased, while maize silage as the major feed for the winter
season has been replaced by alfalfa hay (lucerne). Nevertheless, shortage of animal feed is still wide-
spread, including a shortage of minerals. It is expected that the demand for concentrates would grow in
the medium term, depending on the price ratio between milk and concentrate feed. In addition, some
dairy by-products (whey and skim milk) could be used for animal feeding. There are 9 feed mills in
Albania, each with a capacity of 3.5 tons per hour, all located in the plains districts. However, most feed
mills are closed and those working producing only feed mixes for monogastric production. About 70
percent of the ingredients used are produced locally (mainly wheat and maize), the rest is imported
(mainly soya, fish meal). There is a shortage of locally produced protein rich ingredients; by-products
of the agricultural food processing industry are no longer available after the breakdown of this industry.
To become operational again, the feed mills would require investment for rehabilitation and spare parts
together with new technology such as feed pelleting.
C.    Agriculture Services
1.10   Extension Service.  Each district now has a Department of Agriculture and Food with
responsibilities in the areas of agricultural policy development at district level and the development of
extension services in the communes. In each commune there is group of specialists, composed of an
agronomist, a zoo technician, a veterinary inspector, an economist and a statistician, responsible for the
collection of data from the farmers and for the delivery of extension services. Although a field service
structure has thus been put in place at the district and commune levels, the actual delivery of extension



- 4 -
services yet need to be fully developed. The specialists gathered in the MAF field service have all been
trained to work as specialists on large scale state and cooperative farms; they need to gain the experience
and the general knowledge required to advise small farmers on how to improve production on a mixed
farm and in a market economy. In this respect, the development of applied research required for the
formulation of suitable extension messages is a priority area. In a number of pilot activities (e.g., the
Netherlands supported project, "Agricultural Development in Fier District", and British assistance to the
MAF) some first steps are presently being taken in defining small farmers' needs regarding technical
advise and investigating adequate response to these needs. These projects focus on an integrated approach
to farm development including simultaneous improvement of crop and livestock productivity (horizontal
integration) and at the same time improvement of input supply and marketing of agricultural produce
(vertical integration).
1.11   Agricultural Research. The agricultural research structure under the MAF consists of several
Agricultural Research Institutes and Stations covering all major sub-sectors in agricultural production,
including cereals, vegetables, livestock and forestry. This structure still requires major adjustments in
order to be able to respond to the demands of the market economy and the present small farmer
production situation. The institutes are generally poorly equipped and have insufficiently trained staff
to cope with the required changes. There would most likely be a reduction in the number of institutes
once a new research structure and programs have been defined. The institutes responsible for the
development of food processing, enforcement of food quality control laws, etc., are the Institute of
Veterinary Research (IVR), Institute of Public Health (IPH), Food Research Institute (IKU), and
Agricultural and Food Design Institute (IPBU). The proposed project would support limited upgrading
of the facilities of such institutions.
1.12   Veterinary Services.  The Directorate of Veterinary Services presently employs some 400
permanent professional staff deployed at national, district and municipal level. With the Director and
only three staff at the headquarters office - responsible respectively for veterinary services, inspection and
epizootiological information - the service is heavily decentralized. Each district level MAF office has
an Animal Health Sector, staffed by a complement of 3-4 veterinarians responsible for epizootiology and
inspection of food and animal feed. In addition, a diagnostic veterinarian and a veterinary technician are
employed in each of the 26 district veterinary laboratories which presently provide diagnostic services
to the farmers without charge. This district team supports a cadre of veterinarians located at the 360
communes. At this level, veterinary staff are semi-private practitioners receiving a portion of their salary
for the implementation of disease control and public health activities defined under the veterinary law:
mainly vaccination and meat inspection. Animal treatment is on a fee basis for service and drugs. In
Tirana, the Institute of Veterinary Research is the main academic institution dealing with veterinary
services.
1.13 Artificial Insemination. The only field services actually responding directly to farmers' needs
are the veterinary service and the artificial insemination (Al) service, operating at the village level.
Farmers are also willing to pay for these services, but do complain about the cost. The Al service which
presently operates with 285 private inseminators, urgently requires equipments (since long foreseen to
be supplied with Italian aid) to function adequately at some 700 Al points and using frozen semen only.
Al coverage has decreased from 70 percent in 1989 to less than 40 percent now. Semen doses are now
Lek 60/straw and insemination charges range from Lek 150-300. The Italian authorities are considering
a program to provide assistance for the strengthening of extension, veterinary and AI services.



- 5 -
II. AGRO-PROCESSING SECTOR
A.    Overview of the Sector
2.1    Albania's production of processed food expanded rapidly in the 1950's and 1960's as investments
in the food processing industry grew and agricultural production and imports from the Former Soviet
Union provided needed raw materials. In the 1970s the industry became more self-sufficient and
experienced growth rates similar to agricultural production in the range of 2 to 12 percent for most
products. In the early 1980s, production of key commodities such as bread fell below the population
growth rate and the production of sugar and oil experienced negative annual growth rates of 8 and 2
percent respectively.  During the second half of the decade, bread production kept just ahead of
population growth, while sugar production stagnated and food oil production declined at an annual rate
of 6 percent. By 1990, the Government's ability to produce bread, sugar and oils with domestic
production fell significantly. The anticipated increased in bread, sugar and oil production also remain
dependent upon the ability of the food processing enterprises to attract domestic production and survive
without government financial support.
2.2   In the past, Albania's food policy was based on establishing at least one processing facility in each
district for each subsector, ignoring economies of scale. The enterprises were only responsible for
processing, as securing raw materials and marketing were handled by other state enterprises. The
industry was directed by the Ministry of Food, which is now part of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food. Most of the technology is obsolete, as there has been almost no investment, even for necessary
spares, for 20 years and only the creativity and skills of Albanian mechanical engineers have kept
factories operating. Production efficiency and product quality are very low, and even minimum hygienic
and sanitation standards are not met.
2.3    The agro-industrial sector includes about 200 large mostly state enterprises, about 400 private
small scale dairies, about 100 private small scale sausage plants and several hundred rural bakeries. In
1993, the sector employed about 20,000 workers. Output fell dramatically after 1990. Most state food
processing enterprises have been partially or totally closed since 1990/91. Some continue to operate at
only a fraction of their capacity. Privatization of the plants is a first step towards revitalization of the
industry, and this process needs to be expedited.  There are several obstacles constraining the
privatization process, one of which concerns the relatively high prices demanded for the existing buildings
and installations, which in most cases are old, with outmoded production technologies. At the same time,
potential buyers often consider the processing capacities of the existing plants too large, and generally
prefer smaller processing units. To restart production, they need to organize the collection of sufficient
quantities of inputs (milk, vegetables, fruits, meat, etc.), which is not an easy task considering the very
small size of the many production units and farms. Further, packaging/bottling of the end products is
often problematic due to a complete lack of the required materials and production facilities. In addition,
marketing channels need to be developed for the sale of the end products. While there is quite substantial
entrepreneurial interest in the agro-processing sector, several factors are hindering its development.
These include: lack of adequate business management and marketing skills, lack of exposure to modern
technology and operational techniques, lack of equity capital required by the banks for borrowing, and
lack of credit and collateral property. The proposed project would address many of these constraints by
providing training, advice and credit to private agricultural entrepreneurs.
2.4    The level of literacy in Albania is quite high and a large number of people were trained in skills
in order to play a crucial role in the centrally controlled manufacturing system. However, there is a lack
of exposure to modern industrial skills throughout the sector. Most of the personnel employed in the
agro-processing industry are quire knowledgeable but lack comprehensive technical education. Some have



- 6 -
attended short courses after high school and learned the job through on-the-job training as there are no
diploma courses in the field of agro-processing. This lack of modern technical skills shows in the poor
processing and efficiency of operations. Given past heavily state controlled system, the management and
business, (e.g., accounting, financial analysis, marketing, MIS, etc.) skills are lacking. There is a need
to develop comprehensive training programs to upgrade basic technical, and management and business
skills. In the beginning, some of this training should be offered at external institutions and by foreign
experts in Albania. At the same time, steps should be taken to develop such capacity within Albania
including development of short-term as well as diploma courses on various aspects of agro-processing
sector.  The proposed project would provide limited assistance to local technical institutions for
developing such capability.
B.    Meat Processing
2.5    Most of the 28 state owned slaughter houses now operate at a much reduced level compared to
1991 and before, if operating at all. A significant number of cattle and small ruminants is now
slaughtered on-farm without any veterinary control. Some meat on the hoof is also exported informally
to Yugoslavia and to Greece. The state slaughter houses depend on the municipalities without central
control from MAF. With the exception of those in Tirana, Vlore, Fier, Durres and Korca, the slaughter
houses are very old with no investment in recent years; generally, they are completely obsolete. The
specialized poultry slaughter house is now closed. Large scale poultry, egg and pig production has
stopped entirely in 1991, as has beef fattening in the former central large scale feed lots.  Meat
production is now only on small scale private farm level, with rural village slaughters and consumption
of the produced meat mainly in the rural areas.
2.6    Sausage production. The meat processing industry has been taken over by private entrepreneurs
who have started their own small sausage production plants. There are presently over 100 small plants
with a capacity ranging from 100-300 kg of sausage per day. There are also some larger industrial
enterprises, including one in Tirana where with private Italian investment a factory with a capacity of
2,500-3,000 kg of sausage per day has been established. There is no government control on the estab-
lishment and operation of the new plants. MAF is only globally aware of what is going on in this sector,
and has no control, for example, on hygienic conditions, quality control, etc. Many of the new plants
are operated by meat processing specialists who used to work in state meat processing enterprises. Only
a few of the 14 state meat processing enterprises have been privatized. For most of the remaining state
plants there is probably no future, even if they were to be privatized. Most of them can hardly be
considered proper plants - their entire installations, cold storage rooms, etc. are defunct - only the build-
ings remain, but these are generally old and not suitable for rehabilitation. The new meat processing
plants operate predominantly using imported meat (Italian, Danish, etc.). A new plant requires modest
investments in machinery and equipments for meat processing; the average investment in a new small
plant is $8, - $10,000 for a meat mincing machine, a small packing machine and an autoclave.
C.    Flour Mills and Pasta Factories
2.7    Wheat production. The national production of wheat has again increased considerably after an
initial drop following the distribution of land to the small private farms in 1991 and 1992/93. In 1990
wheat was cultivated on 203,000 ha of land, down to only 103,000 ha in 1992, but increasing to 170,000
ha in 1994. Wheat production decreased from 613,000 tons in 1990 to 252,000 tons in 1992 but
increasing to 415,000 tons in 1994. The dry summer is not the only reason for the lower yields; also
the lack of availability of irrigation, continuous cropping of wheat without rotation and a lower use of
fertilizer and other inputs are contributing factors to decrease in yields. Farmers produce wheat primarily
for their own needs; they store the required wheat at home and market only a small surplus, if available.



It is estimated that not more than 20% of the produced wheat is marketed. Total national requirement
of wheat is about 700,000 tons per year. To fill the gap between national production and requirement,
210,000 tons of food-aid wheat was imported in 1993 together with 88,000 ton of food-aid flour and
80,000 ton of commercial flour. Continued imports of wheat and flour will be necessary to fulfil the
demand.
2.8    Flour mils. Albania's 42 flour mills have capacities ranging from 10 to 150 tons of wheat per
day. The total (original) installed capacity of these mills is about 1,500 tons per day. The technical
condition of most of the mills is very poor. Only three mills (Lushnje, Shkoder and Tirana) have
reasonable installations, less than 15 years old. In a second mill in Tirana the Government has invested
$1.5 million in German machinery in 1990; this is the only modern mill, with a processing capacity of
60 tons of wheat per day. Eleven of the mills have closed, while the remaining mills produce between
2 and 25 tons of flour per day for urban demand. Only 8 are privatized so far, while most of the other
ones are in the process of privatization. Twenty-four of the 42 mills have reasonable to good quality
buildings and could (from this point of view) qualify for rehabilitation, with investment in new technical
installations. However, the total required milling capacity is now much lower than before.
2.9    Total flour production in the 42 large (state) mills was 320,000 tons in 1992, down to 136,000
tons in 1994. Food-aid has permitted the mills to continue to supply urban bakeries, although they were
unable to meet the demand from the several hundred rural bakeries. The private grain milling and baking
sector grew rapidly since 1992; almost every
village has a private entrepreneur milling grain,
baking bread, or both. Village and town mills
vary from those using simple technology (small    Table 2.2 Number of Fruit Trees and
stone grinding mills) to relatively sophisticated          Total Production
mills that have been taken over by private parties.
Most of the 80 former state owned bakeries have
been privatized. There are now about 500 private               N uber of Trees   Production
bakeries in the towns and cities.                                               n,Ioo to")
2.10   Pasta factories.   There are 10 old                       1990   1994   1990  1994
factories with a capacity ranging between 5 and    Fruit Trees  13032   5140    71   52
10 tons of pasta.  Most of the factories have      Olive Trees   5821   2931      10   32
citrus Treea9    1084    383  10   13
Italian machines (presses), dating from 1972/73    Pergola       5587   3262    65   34
and 1982/83. Only 2 of the pasta factories are     Vineyard     17261   5056    91   55
privatized (one in Durres and one in Korca). Of                       a F       -  19-
the state pasta factories 3 have been closed, and 5  Source: Albania: Agriculture and Food Stistics, 1994
are still operating, producing between 2 and 8
tons of pasta per day (Annex 2.1). The local
pasta is somewhat cheaper than the imported
pasta, but is of a lower quality.
D.    Vegetables and Fruit Processing
2.11   There were 31 vegetable and fruit canneries spread all over Albania. Only three plants have been
privatized so far; these are the only ones still operating. In general the processing technology is very old,
involving a great deal of simple hand work. The few existing equipments are now obsolete. Packaging
and labelling of the end products is very problematic (lack of bottles, no cans, etc.). Among the best
plants is the state owned orange fruit concentrate plant in Sarande, with relatively new machinery (1985-



90) from the former Eastern Germany, with a processing capacity of 4 tons of oranges per hour. How-
ever, this plant is presently closed. There are seven canneries for the production of jam and stewed fruits
having relatively new equipments; Peshkopia, Kavaja (privatized), Shkoder, Tirana, Skrapar (privatized),
Vlore and Berat (privatized). The other 23 plants are of little value any more. Some of the buildings
are good and could continue to be used for vegetable or fruit processing, but as the old installations can
be removed very easily, they could also be used for other purposes. One of the major problems facing
restart of the industry is the organization of collection of fruits and vegetables from small farmers.
2.12   An important field of cannery industry in Albania used to be the tomato sauce industry with 13
plants. Twelve of these plants are closed since 1991. The plants in Elbasan and Shkodra have relatively
new machinery (1985-88) with a processing capacity of 200 tons of tomatoes per day. The plants in
Shijak (near Durres), Fier and Vlore have a similar capacity, with machinery from the 1970s. The other
8 plants (in Delvina, Korca, Kavaja, Lac, Lezhe, Berati, Kukes and Permet) have very old installations,
each with a capacity of 40 tons of tomatoes per day. In the past 80% of the production was exported to
Eastern Europe.
E.    Vegetable Oils
2.13   There are 14 plants for olive oil production, four of which are equipped with modern
installations. These four plants are joint ventures with Italian (Elbasan, Tirana), Greek (Vlore) and
German (Sasoy - Sarande) companies. The daily oil production capacity of the Sarande factory is 40
tons, Vlore 36 tons, Elbasan 20 tons and Tirana 6 tons. The other 11 plants are equipped with old
(Russian) lines and machineries, for pressing olive pulp, cotton seed and sunflower pulp. There are 10
sunflower oil refinery units, 3 of which have been privatized. Only one plant in Fier has modern German
extraction equipment (1989), the others have old oil presses which are generally obsolete. Operation is
seasonal; some of the plants started working in September/October 1994 with crude sunflower oil
imported from the United States. Edible oil bottling is normally done at town and district bottling plants.
2.14   The national requirement of vegetable oils (mainly sunflower oil) is estimated at about 40,000
tons per year, of which about one-third is presently covered by national production. The national
production of soaps presently covers approximately 40 percent of the total demand of about 18,000 to
20,000 tons per year. In 1994, 11,000 tons of crude sunflower oil was imported from the United States.
Further (commercial) imports are refined sunflower oil mainly from Bulgaria, Italy and Turkey; laundry
soap from Turkey; toilet soap, detergents and shampoos mainly from Turkey and Italy, etc. Local
production of soaps continues in three enterprises (two joint ventures in Elbasan and Vlore), the fourth
one in Shkodra has closed.
F.    Alcoholic and Non-alcoholic Beverages
2.15   Other enterprises in the food industry include 22 wineries with a total capacity of 170,000
hectoliters (hl), some distilleries and 3 beer production enterprises. The beer breweries are in Tirana
(capacity 180,000 hl per year), in Korca (55,000 hl) and in Vlore (60,000 hl). The brewery in Korca
is private, both others are state owned. The brewery in Vlore is closed because of financial difficulties.
In Tirana brewery the European Community has recently financed investments of 1.5 million ECU (and
7 million Lek by the GOA). This factory has restarted production in 1994. Total beer production in
1993 was around 5,000 hl, a fraction of the total 1990 production of 187,000 hi. Imported beer is now
dominant in the market.
2.16   Presently only six wineries (5 private) are operating -- Durres (state), Librazhd, Leskovik, Peshk-
opi, Lushnje and Berati. Investment requirements relate to bottling lines and washing machinery, etc.



-9-
Wine bottles have been imported from Bulgaria (beer bottles from Germany, plastic bottles from Greece).
Total wine production has decreased from 35,000 he in 1990 to 9,000 hi in 1993. More than 20 percent
of the national wine production of 66,000 hl in 1989 was exported. One of the problems now in this
industry is the collection of grapes from private producers. More than half of the total acreage of
vineyards has been destroyed following the privatization in 1991. The grapes produced are now mainly
used for home consumption. The wineries of Durres, Peshkopi, Korca and Tirana have distillation col-
umns for the production of brandy and cognac. In all of the 22 wineries, uzo, vodka, fernet, ponce and
liquors of different types could be produced. At present, there are numerous very small private (home)
distilleries.
2.17   In Korca there are two sugar factories (constructed in 1951 and 1976), with a total capacity of
1,800 to 2,000 tons of sugar beet per day. These plants are now closed. Sugar beet production has
declined from 169,000 tons in 1990 to 27,000 tons in 1993. The problem is the same as for other
industrial crops such as sunflower, soya, cotton, etc.; the farmers have reduced the acreage cultivated
with these crops because of the difficulties encountered in the marketing of sugar beets.
III. DAIRY SUB-SECTOR
A.    Milk Production and Supply
3.1    Total milk production in 1994
is estimated at 780,000 tons, an                    Table 3.1 Milk Produc: 1960-93
increase of 27 percent over the past
two  years.    While  total  milk                 -                                   --
Number of.   Milk              Spl.
production  in  the  country  has                   mberof    MiIt
continued to increase after the land                Cowy (wnou
reform, milk supply to the main dairy               (00)       (000)   _ - - __ -
processing  plants  has  decreased
dramatically from  191,000 tons in      1960            146  -     64         41      25X
1970                      215       344:~ 9
1989 to 20,000 tons in 1994 (Table      1980           253        388       144       37-
1.1). In the past, between 30 to 40     1985            228       375         57    . 42%
percent of the total quantity of milk   4988  -                   443-       1.
1989           288       .460       1.91:     42%:
produced was delivered to the main      199             300   -          -14
processing industry for the production  1991            306       527   6a  :      .    %
of pasteurized milk, butter, cheese     1992           324        612      . 40:  :7%
and other milk products for urban                                 780         20      <3%
consumption.  The remainder was
mainly supplied to a large number of    Source: Albania: Agriculture and Food Statistics, 1994
small rural cheese processing plants
and for calf rearing. The state farms,
especially in the plains districts used
to produce milk required to meet urban demand; 85 percent of milk required for Tirana was supplied by
the state farms. Due to a peak in the number of calving in spring, the monthly supply of milk to the
dairies in April, May and June used to be about three times as high as it was in the period from
November to February. On the present small private farms, the concentration of calving in spring has
increased; thus an even greater portion of milk is now being produced in the period between April and
June.



- 10 -
3.2    Milk Collection. Together with the disintegration of the collective production system, the state
run milk collection system also collapsed in 1990/91 and the alternative systems have not yet developed.
In the past, milk collection, mainly from the state farms and the cooperatives, used to be well organized,
especially in the plains districts, with a network of collection points for the delivery of milk to the dairy
plants in the urban centers. The collection centers generally lacked cooling facilities. Milk was collected
twice - or even three times per day - depending on the frequency of milking per day - with trucks (also
without cooling) belonging to the dairy plants. Milk collection in the mountain districts was organized
differently, due to the bad quality -or even absence - of roads and the limited possibilities to transport
milk quickly.
B.    Milk Processing
3.3    There are 18 state owned medium to large scale dairy plants located in the larger cities, 14 of
which are in the plains districts (Annex 3.1). In addition, there are 7 smaller milk processing plants each
with a capacity of 5 to 10 tons of milk per day. The large plants, in Tirana, Berat, Lushnje, Fier,
Durres and Shkoder each have a capacity of around 50 tons per day. In Tirana a new plant (70 tons) was
under construction since 1986 to replace the old plant. However, the German Aid Agency (GTZ) is
installing a new plant utilizing some equipment of this plant. Tirana also has a cheese factory (capacity
20 tons of milk per day), which was normally open only during those months of the year with high
production of milk (spring and early summer). In addition, Italian equipment for a baby food plant (700
tons of baby food) arrived in Tirana in 1993 and is awaiting installation near the Food Complex in
Tirana.
3.4   In general, the dairy plants were built 15-20 years ago with East European (and Chinese)
technology. The technology used in most of the dairy plants is old and inefficient. Most plants are in
poor condition resulting from the lack of proper maintenance in the past and recent acts of vandalism.
Non-availability of spare parts and other inputs, and collapse of milk collection system and perhaps
decline in demand due to lack of disposable income, have resulted in either the closure or very low level
of operations for most large and medium dairy plants. The plants in Tirana and Lezhe were closed in
1992. The other plants then continued working, but most of them at a level of not more than 5 to 10%
of their installed capacity, processing only I to 2 tons of milk per day (Annex 3.2). In the course of
1993 and the beginning of 1994, most of the remaining factories were also closed. Currently none of
the factories produce pasteurized milk any more, although this had been the main objective of the larger
plants in the past and should again in future be the main aim. Only the small plants in Elbasan (Cerik)
and Korca (Belisht) have been privatized to date, the one in Belisht operating at its maximum capacity
of 10 tons of milk per day, producing cheese.
3.5    Rural Cheese Plants. There were 565 small rural cheese plants with the capacity of I to 1.5 tons
of milk per day, most of which were located in the mountain districts. While a number of these cheese
plants have been destroyed by the previous land owners, most of them have now been privatized and are
producing cheese during the months of March until late August/September. In addition to these plants,
recently some new (small) cheese plants have come into existence. At present, there are around 400
small private cheese plants, some of them processing as much as 2.5 to 3.0 tons of milk per day into
white (soft) cheese; a number of them also make yoghurt and ice cream.
C.    Product Distribution
3.6    The supply of pasteurized milk to the urban consumers stopped in the beginning of 1992 when
the dairy plants shifted to the production of cheese as this was then more profitable. On the other hand,



- II -
the private farmers are experiencing severe constraints in marketing their milk. As a result, more milk
is now being consumed in the rural areas than in the past when production for the urban population was
a priority. Although it is difficult to get an accurate assessment of the level of milk now being distributed
by the farmers themselves as fresh milk or as cheese in the streets of the towns and cities, it is estimated
that the present level of fresh milk supply to the cities is around 50-60 tons per day. The urban
population (about 1.16 million), received an estimated 70 percent of the bottled milk and milk products
produced, or about 270 kg milk equivalent per capita. In 1993, only about 20 percent of the milk
produced, some 130,000 tons, reached the market system in the form of feta cheese, cottage cheese or
unpasteurized milk in plastic soft-drink bottles. The informal supply of milk to the urban areas is at
present handled by the milk producing farmers themselves and partly by the traders buying feta cheese
from a number of small rural cheese processing plants. The liquid milk and the cottage cheese (fresh
products) are mainly sold by farm family members and goes to the city markets for sale during the day.
Transportation is by bus, bicycle or lift by some trucks. The cost and time consumed in transportation
limit the area from which fresh products can be sold, normally farm supply comes from an area within
15-20 km from the city markets.
3.7   It is clear that distribution of the milk and other end products to the urban centers in the past has
not been given proper attention. Therefore, this function would need to be especially organized which
should include establishment of selling points in the urban centers. This activity could be carried out by
the different parties, such as, processing plants, private vendors, cooperative organizations and shop
traders.  Appropriate investments in distribution infrastructure, such as delivery vehicles, storage
facilities, training of marketing personnel, attractive packaging, advertising, and consumer education
would need to be given proper attention.
D.    Product Quality
3.8   In Albania, the quality of food commodities in general and that of dairy products in particular
is quite poor at the market level. Milk, being highly perishable requires quick mobility to the nearest
market as a raw or pasteurized milk or converted into relatively stabilized products, such as, cheese,
yogurt, butter, milk powder, etc.. The urban consumer having been used to regular supply of pasteurized
milk and milk products of standard quality, at fixed prices, under the changed circumstances is even
prepared to accept milk of variable quality at highly fluctuating prices. In spite of this unmet market
demand, the milk and milk products marketing still remains outside the realm of commercial economy.
However, with the emergence of un-organized handling and marketing of milk and milk products, the
recently restructured government quality surveillance system is not well equipped to implement the quality
standards due to the lack of adequate infrastructure both at the sample collection and at the sample testing
levels. The responsibility for the maintenance of quality prior to political reforms rested with the
cooperation between the government implementing agencies, food producers, processors, trade and
consumer associations. The proposed project would support limited upgrading of equipment (and skills)
of selected food quality control institutions.
E.    Trade and Prices
3.9    Trade in Dairy Products. Until 1993, imports of dairy products, mainly butter and cheese, were
dominated by food-aid deliveries. Food-aid was sold by GOA at prices below wholesale prices for
domestic products, and has thus contributed to constrain market entry for newly privatized dairy factories.
The revenues generated by food-aid were credited to a counterpart fund to support fiscal budget, in
particular social safety net programs. However, there were no milk powder imports under food-aid in
1993-94. At the end of 1993, the Government decided to phase out all food-aid imports. Since demand
and supply in Albania is not balanced, and food-aid has ceased, imports of dairy products are increasingly



- 12 -
handled by the private sector, focusing on cheese
and milk powder.                                    Table 3.3 Dairy Prodiiet Imports to Albania in I993
3.10   Consumer Prices.  The price of cheese         Dairy      Food Aid   Private     Total
was liberalized in early 1992 while the consumer     Product    Import    SeAtof
price for pasteurized milk continued to be state                            Import
controlled and fixed at the low level of 4.5
Lek/kg until August 1992.  The plants now            Butter      10,170       423      10,593
purchase small quantities of milk from  privat2      Cheese       2,237     2,250       4,487
farmers at prices ranging from  12 to 25 Lek/kg,     Whole          -         500        500
Milk
Powder
In Durres, one private milk collector services about
200 farmers collecting 1,500 liters daily. Milk is
colected by an un-refrigerated tanker truck at one
former state-owned collection center and several  depending on the location, and make hard cheese
district markets at a price of Lek 24 per liter. The  which is sold for prices ranging fTom 200 to 270
unpasteurized and un-refrigerated milk is sold  Lek/kgi  Private cheese imports consist primarily of
before 9 a.m. to six centers in Tirana at Lek 29 per
liter. Milk colection and delivery costs are  feta cheese from Eastern Europe, e.g., Bulgaria, and
estimated at Lek 2 per liter. This operator is  are well placed in terms of quality and price to
interested in purchasing milk cooling equipment to  satisfy local demand (no detailed breakdown is
available on costs and prices).  In 1994, butter
imports are landed at a cif cost of around US$1,350
per metric ton. Adding 5 percent import duty, US$4 per ton port handling charges, US$9-10 transport
costs to Tirana, and a 15 percent turnover tax, will price the butter at about US$1,650 per ton ex-store
Tirana. Allowing for 15 percent wholesale and retail margins and 6 percent retails sales tax, the free
market price for imported butter is likely to settle at around US$2,300 per ton. Milk powder imports
are now entirely handled by the private sector. Wholesale prices of US$1,600-1,700 per ton add weight
to anecdotal information of cif prices of only US$1,050-1,100, indicating that milk powder offered to
Albania is heavily discounted. The extremely low price likely involves products from Eastern Europe
that have approached the end of their storage life. Such imports may continue to flow into the Albanian
market in view of ineffective sanitary controls. Assuming international market prices of US$1,500 per
ton of skim milk powder and US$1,650 per ton for butterfat, 5 percent import duty, 15 percent
manufacture and retail margins, and turnover taxes on manufacture and retail sales as for butter above,
the financial price of reconstituted milk would be around 38 Lek per kg, which is about 10-20 percent
above the retail raw milk price in Tirana. It is thus unlikely that milk reconstitution (at regular milk
powder import prices) would represent a viable alternative to the use of domestically produced milk.
Furthermore, there is a strong preference in Albania for fresh and pasteurized milk compared to
reconstituted milk. At a procurement price of about 20 Lek/liter of fresh milk prevailing in early 1995,
milk factories pasteurizing and packaging fresh milk could place a product on the retail market at about
33-35 Lek per liter.
3.11   Farm Economics.  Annual net margins from a one cow milk production system in a low input
scenario on 0.75 ha of which 40% would be in fodder, would be valued at some US$118 per year,
assuming a producer price of milk of US$0.18 per kg, yielding about US$0.36 per person day. With
two cows, a larger farm size of some 1.5 ha, and relatively higher share of fodder crops, the annual net
return would be valued between US$300 and US$870, depending whether a low or high input scenario
is applied. Net return per person day would also be substantially higher in these larger and/or more



- 13 -
intensively cultivated farms (Annex 3.3). Recent analysis indicated that dairy production accounts for
almost 50-60% of the farm budgets.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
A.    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
4.1    The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (M.AF) has undergone several changes in the recent pasL.
In 1992, the former Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for agricultural production, was merged with
the Ministry of Food Processing. At present, the Minister of Agriculture and Food is supported by one
Deputy Minister. The MAF has been regrouped into eleven Departments -- Agricultural and Animal
Production, Veterinary Services, Finance and Economy, Land and Water Resources, Agro-Processing,
Food and Quality Inspection, and Statistics and Information, etc. (Annex 4.1). The General Directorate
for Forestry is also part of the MAF. Under IDA's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), an
Agricultural Program Office (APO) was established to assist MAF in the coordination of policy and
foreign assistance programs. In the current set up, the Agro-Processing Department (APD) which is
responsible for the collection and processing of agricultural products, including meat, milk and milk
products, would be the executive agency for the proposed project. In view of its limited institutional
capacity, a Technical Services Unit (TSU) has been established to provide assistance to private
entrepreneurs, farmers and farmers associations and to handle other project activities.
B.    Technical Institutions and Associations
4.2    The 1995 Food Law (para 3.9) assigns specific responsibilities for the implementation of food
quality control regulations to the Food Research Institute (IKU), and Institute of Veterinary Research
(IVR). In addition to their quality control law enforcement responsibilities, the IKU and the IVR would
continue to provide technical services to the industry along with other organizations such as the
Agriculture and Food Design Institute (IPBU) and the Albanian Dairy Association (ADA).
4.3    Food Research Institute. The IKU was established in 1962 as a constituent of the MAF and was
required to deal with the food industry on matters of processing technology, plant design, packaging,
quality standards and production schedules under the centrally controlled system. The institute has 29
technical and 14 supporting staff with long experience. The institute has begun to refocus its activities
towards providing assistance to the industry in particular training, testing, quality control, as well as
granting certificates for the registration of food manufacturing enterprises. It makes sense for the IKU
to redirect its attention to the private sector in a market economy and to evolve into an income earning
agency offering services for a fee. According to the 1995 Food Law, the IKU is a National Center of
Reference for the control of food with non-animal origin. The IKU would also train staff of the food
control authority at the field as well as Ministry levels in monitoring the industrial operations as required
under the new quality control regulations.
4.4   Institute of Veterinary Research. The IVR established in 1928, is the only scientific research
center in veterinary field in Albania. The main tasks of the institute are: the control of epizootic
situation, the production of vaccines and other biological products, diagnosis of diseases and the
determination of the schemes of fitting the parasitic infections nationwide, and the control of livestock
food, the control of food stuff products and subproducts of animal origin produced within the country and
those of import-export. According to the 1995 Food Law the IVR is a National Center of Reference for



- 14 -
the quality control of food with animal origin. According to this Law, the raw materials, fresh food,
products, subproducts and food residue with animal origin are exclusive control of the IVR.
4.5    Agriculturml and Food Design Institute. Prior to reorganization in 1992, the IPBU used to be
a part of the IKU. The IPBU has been given an independent status as a commercial organization to
render services to the private and public sector on payment basis. Thus, the IPBU supports its activities
by doing contracting job for the public and private sector organizations. For all practical purposes, it
now functions as a private professional organization with self-supporting mandate and no funding from
the MAF..  The institute has 35 well experienced staff and offers services in architecture, civil
construction, mechanical, electrical and sanitary engineering, food processing and economic studies. It
carries out feasibility studies, develops designs, supervises erection and construction work, including
commissioning of the plants. However, the institute lacks modern facilities and its staff need exposure
to modern technology. The GOA plans to privatize the IPBU to make it fully responsible for its services
and improve effectiveness.
4.6    Private Farmers Associations. The dissolution of the producer cooperative structures of the
former socialist Albania has generated a new class of largely subsistence farmers who form about 90
percent of the farming community and amongst whom there is still widespread resentment against
cooperatives. This community is characterized by its: adversity to risk and uncertainty; unwillingness
or inability to access credit at market rates; engagement in few market transactions; high priority on
investing in improved living standards and consumer durable; some access to remitted funds for
investment or to bolster the domestic budget; and, villages of often related people committed to working
within the extended family. So far about 100 private farmers associations (PFAs) embracing over 4,000
families have been formed and registered. These PFAs fall into three main categories:
*      Semi-subsistence joint household associations of about 15 families pooling land and
undertaking joint arable or mixed farming with a view to marketing surplus production;
-      Specialized joint household associations, also of around 15 families, undertaking a
specialized activity for which a large part of the output is sold, such as dairying or tractor
rental; and,
-      Commercial associations, small groups more closely resembling small private
partnerships, often of trained specialists who collaborate to purchase state agricultural
assets for production purposes and relying on employed labor and market sales.
4.7    The legal framework for the establishment of PFAs is only starting to emerge, although the basic
framework for private enterprise is now largely in place. Most existing associations are registered under
the Private Property Law and in some cases have their internal statutes registered under the Company
Law. Associations therefore under law, are more in the nature of limited liability companies than true
cooperatives, though their internal structure and organization may more closely follow cooperative
principals. Membership of these associations is often from the small commercial sector within the rural
population; frequently involves family related groups and/or families with contiguous land areas; and,
in the case of commercial associations, groups of former state-employed colleagues. Some associations
have been formed with the often unrealized expectation of receiving direct bilateral aid. Another quite
large collection of farmers' groups, having all female membership, has been formed under the USAID-
funded Land O'Lakes Dairy Improvement Program. While initially established for information extension
purposes, these groups of often enterprising and self-motivated women could form the basis of a network
of milk producers associations. Given small form holdings, it is essential that farmers organize



- 15 -
associations for the marketing of milk as well as supply of farm inputs. Later they could also get
associated with the marketing of other farm products. The proposed project would provide assistance for
the formation on a grass-roots voluntary basis (with no direction from government agencies) and in
improving the operations and management of such associations as well as in the formulation of a viable
strategy for the promotion of PFAs including enabling environment (e.g., legal fram2work, promotion,
training).
4.8    Albanian Dairy Association.  The ADA  was organized in 1994 and registered with the
International Dairy Federation. This volunteer committee is led by an 8 person executive committee with
representation from the MAF, IKU, University of Tirana and the private sector, half of the members
being from the private sector. The main objective of the ADA is to advise the MAF and government
agencies on matters relating to the dairy industry. The ADA is at its early stage of development and has
no resources at its disposal. If nurtured, it could evolve into an effective and credible body and make
a significant contribution to the development of the Albanian dairy industry. The ADA is represented
on the Project Coordination Committee established under the proposed project.
C.    Rural Financial Sector
4.9 Albania's Financial Sector. Commercial banking is a recent phenomenon in Albania. Only since
1991 do two-tier banks operate in separation from the Central Bank (Bank of Albania, BOA). The three
state-owned banks which emerged from the former centrally-planned economic regime still account for
more than 95%  of loans and deposits; only three foreign joint-venture banks have been set up since
1994'. New bank licensing regulations issued in June 1995 aim at facilitating the entry of further private
banks. BOA sets mandatory minimum interest rates on deposits while loan rates are largely market-set.
Since mid-1994, all lending rates are positive in real terms. Rather comprehensive banking regulation
is in place, but actual bank supervision and enforcement of regulations both require improvement.
Overall financial and banking sector development is supported under the IDA-financed Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC, FY94). See Annex 4.2 for a more comprehensive
background on the financial sector.
4.10   The state banks are characterized by serious deficiencies in management and staff skills, lack of
corporate governance by the Ministry of Finance, obsolete technical equipment and facilities, and
worsening financial condition.  Banks also suffer under inadequate tools to legally enforce loan
repayment, especially given a very weak judiciary system. Outside expertise from qualified, experienced
bankers is required to transform the state-owned banks into viable institutions. Given the lack of such
qualifications in Albania, the Government is considering bank privatization through involvement of
foreign banks. The weakness of the state-owned banks has led to a very active informal sector, providing
the bulk of financial services in rural areas. Additional rural credit is provided through the Village Credit
Funds system, set up under the IDA-funded Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (FY93), followed by
the Rural Development Project (FY95). As of mid-1995, the 74 village-based credit committees have
approved a total of US$ 1.3 million in credit for some 3,400 small loans to village members, with a near
100% repayment record. It is foreseen that Village Credit Funds would eventually evolve into a
cooperative banking system.
1/     State-owned banks include: the National Commercial Bank (NCB), the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB), and the
Savings Bank (SB). Private banks, as of mid-1995, are: the Albanian-Italian Bank; the Arab Albanian Islamic Bank;
and the Dardania Bank.



- 16 -
4.11   Rural Commercial Bank (RCB). The RCB emerged as a new state-owned bank only in October
1993, after unrecoverable state enterprise debt by its predecessor institution had been covered by the
public budget. Under financing from the IDA-supported Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC,
FY93), a comprehensive program of institutional strengthening in key areas was initiated for the RCB,
and significant progress has been made in the accounting and credit areas since the fall of 1993 (see
Annex 4.2 for details). Nevertheless, serious management and corporate governance issues prevail,
preventing the bank from fully developing its capacity to serve its new private-sector clientele. RCB's
loan customers are some 12,000 private farmers, agro-processing enterprises, traders and related service
providers. Through its extensive network with 33 branches and 130 agencies, the bank reaches most of
rural Albania. With some US$40 million equivalent in outstanding loans, as of April 1995, it is the
largest provider of bank credit in the country; its deposit base equals US$56 million equivalent.
4.12   RCB's financial health is seriously endangered by its rising portfolio of non-performing loans.
Together with fixed assets and non-interest bearing claims on the public budget, non-performing loans
and accrued interest add up to about Lek 3 billion (US$33 million), or some 62% of adjusted total assets2.
Consequently, the bank faces a structural cash-flow gap which cannot be overcome without financial
restructuring. Loan collection performance of the bank has improved significantly since 1993, with
average collection rates on current loans rising from a mere 40% in 1993 to 65% in early 1995. Loan
collections vary strongly between branches, with levels of above 90% for the best 5 branches and 0%
collections for the worst 2 branches. In response, RCB has halted new lending in all but the best-
performing branches. A main reason for poor loan collections are some Lek 1.4 billion in truck and
tractor loans extended by the bank between mid-1993 and early 1994 which, based on political
motivations, were approved with a one-year maturity, causing the default of practically all borrowers.
RCB has embarked on a rescheduling initiative with longer loan maturities for about 70% of the affected
loans, with the difference going to legal enforcement of the collateral. After adjusting for loan loss risks
through additional provisions, above and beyond the legal requirements in Albania, the bank is technically
insolvent and requires financial restructuring and recapitalization. The Government is committed to issue
bonds for this purpose, preferably as part of a package to privatize the bank at the same time. A recent
privatization feasibility study indicated interest by a number of foreign banks to invest into the RCB. The
Government is moving aggressively to privatize the RCB with a majority foreign ownership and is in
contact with a number of potential buyers. If this were not to materialize, as an alternative, the RCB
could be downsized through closure of non-viable branches, and possibly merged with another bank. The
privatization of state banks including the RCB is being handled under EFSAC and ASAC projects.
4.13   Independent Lending Unit. Given RCB's limited initial institutional capacity, an Independent
Lending Unit (ILU) was established under ASAC for on-lending of IDA proceeds to final borrowers, with
MOF carrying the credit risk. Loan evaluation and approval for ASAC sub-loans are carried out by the
ILU, which is located at RCB's Tirana head office. It uses RCB's net work of branches and head office
infrastructure for the preparation of loan application documentation, disbursements and collections. The
ILU has prepared a Manual of Operations outlining detailed procedures for the appraisal and supervision
of ASAC sub-loans. The Manual also includes procedures for the review of the environmental impact
of sub-projects. The accounts of the ILU are kept completely separate from the RCB and there is no
commingling of funds. The ILU is chaired by the Head of the Credit Department of RCB and includes
a Foreign Credit Expert and Albanian RCB staff. Loan approvals under ASAC require the agreement
by the expatriate expert. Initially, the ILU proved to be slow in starting up its operations, not unusual
for a new outfit. The establishment of proper loan processing procedures took longer than initially
expected, and the training of both ILU staff and RCB credit officers in the branches required substantial
2/    TleA data arc based on adjusted end-March 1995 financial statements (Annex 4.2).



- 17 -
efforts. As a result, the generation and processing of applications for ASAC sub-loans remained behind
expectations until mid-1994, despite strong and rising credit demand by the new private frminog ser'r;r
and emerging agro-processing enterprises.
4.14   By the end of 1994, the performance of ILU had improved considerably, as a result of general
streamlining of procedures and accelerated training of staff. As of mid-1995, the ASAC-funded rural
credit line (US$5 million) has been fully committed, with US$3.5 million in sub-loans, or 70% of total
available funds, disbursed to the rural borrowers. The majority of sub-loans, which have an average size
of US$100,000, finance a variety of agro-processing investments, followed by investments in forestry and
wood processing, rural services, livestock, fisheries, and agricultural production. An additional pipeline
for sub-loans, representing a total lending volume of over US$5 million, has been generated by the ILU,
in expectation of the proposed Agro-Processing Development Project. Loan collection rates for the first
ASAC sub-loans coming due are substantially higher than for RCB's overall collections. An internal
credit audit on 21 sub-loans extended since mid-1994 reveals general on-time repayment of interest due
during the one-year grace period on ASAC investment loans. However, due to issues on two sub-loans
where project start-up was delayed, initial average weighted collection rates on ASAC sub-loans reach
87% as of end-August 1995. It is expected that collection rates on ASAC sub-loans will reach or exceed
90% by the fall of 1995.
4.15   Future of ILU Operations. Since its establishment in early 1994, the operations of the ILU in
effectively reaching rural borrowers and identifying viable sub-projects are judged to be working rather
well, especially when compared to other banking institutions and donor credit windows in the country.
The ILU has largely fulfilled its objective of becoming a vehicle for an efficient rural banking window
within RCB, and ILU's credit evaluation standards and operational procedures became the basis for
revising RCB's Credit Manual and the bank's overall credit management. If RCB was to be privatized
in the near future, the ILU could remain a part of the bank. Alternatively, if RCB was to be downsized
and possibly merged with another bank, the ILU with its loan portfolio could be transferred to this new
bank as well.
D.    Coordination with Donors
4.16   Several donors are supporting MAF's livestock and agro-business development efforts. The GTZ
is implementing a three year pilot project (DM 6 million) to set up a small dairy plant in Tirana including
organizing a pilot milk collection scheme around Tirana. This plant to be owned by the MAF would be
managed by the GTZ experts. The Dutch Government is providing assistance for the development of a
national cattle breeding strategy and the production of bulls for the Al service. The Dutch Governmnent
also has an assistance program in Fier District for a regional rural development project (including
extension, and assistance to an agricultural middle school). The Italian authorities are considering
assistance to the livestock production sector.  USAID  is supporting organizing village level
demonstrations for rural women to improve on-farm milk production. USAID is also supporting a limited
technical advisory services program (under its SARA Project) for certain types of agro-businesses. The
Minister, MAF has assured that the Director APD would carefully monitor these activities to ensure
consistency and avoid duplication.
E.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.17   The proposed project closely reflects the development priorities formulated in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS-Report No. P-6058-ALB), which was discussed by the Board on September
14, 1993. According to the CAS, support for the development of private agriculture, which is Albania's
most important sector, is an area of priority. The CAS called generally for flexible programs that



- 18 -
promote "new entrepreneurship and private enterprise," and it specifically cited the collapse of agro-
processing enterprises and the weakness of new, emerging private activities. The project would promote
private entrepreneurship and would form part of IDA's overall development strategy for the agriculture
sector, which was jointly formulated in October 1992 by the Bank, the EU, and GOA. It would build
on the reforms undertaken by GOA in the agriculture sector. By addressing critical agro-products
marketing issues in rural areas, the project would make a contribution towards the development of the
rural economy. It would also complement other IDA projects in agriculture and the rural sector,
particularly the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project and follow-up Rural Development Project, which
focus on improving rural incomes and farm production; the ASAC, which supports various policy and
institutional reforms in the agriculture sector, including the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises;
and the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, which supports, inter alia, an increase in fodder production.
V. PROPOSED PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
5.1    The main objective of the proposed project is to support the development of the agro-processing
sector in Albania and to help improve the conditions for financing its restructuring through the financial
sector in order to improve marketing of farm outputs (thereby improving rural incomes) and availability
of food products to urban population.
B.    Project Justification and Scope
5.2   In the agro-processing sector, the proposed project would support an integrated private sector
approach in which the entire marketing chain, i.e., collection, processing and distribution of the products
is tackled. Consistent with the strategy outlined in a joint World Bank and European Commission
document (and adopted by the Government), entitled, "An Agricultural Strategy for Albania", October
1992, the proposed approach would be to make maximum utilization of existing assets whenever
economically feasible, with appropriate investments in renovation of existing plants including some new
equipment (e.g., packing units), as well as establishment of small new processing plants in rural and
urban areas. A substantial amount of training and technical support would be provided to upgrade skills
and to improve management and business practices, as well as to strengthen local institutional capacity.
5.3   In the absence of project supported activities the marketing constraints in Albania would become
even more acute, preventing farm production increases resulting from improved irrigation and other
factors, and limiting the farm surplus made available for sale. There is already evidence of milk and
other farm products being wasted because of lack of marketing and processing facilities and the situation
is likely to get worse without the project. In the absence of improved marketing and processing facilities,
the farmers would be forced to limit their production to subsistence levels only thereby contributing to
continued shortages of milk and other processed products to the urban population. It is quite evident
from ongoing experience that the project is needed to "make things happen". Since the prices of
agriculture products in Albania are liberalized and interest rates are market determined there are no
prevailing distortions in the market which are likely to hamper project effectiveness.
5.4    Design Considerations. The project has been designed with the objective of putting a minimum
burden on the government budget and to sustain itself in the long run without continuing government
support. In arriving at the proposed project design several alternatives were considered. For the
Entrepreneurs Support activities use of existing MAF department, setting up a new government body or
a totally private foundation were evaluated with the involvement of relevant public and private officials.



- 19 -
It was decided that establishment of a Technical Services Unit with foreign and local expertise with
minimum government involvement which would evolve into a totally private sector operation, would be
most appropriate option. Given the importance of the agro-processing sector in the Albanian economy,
the need for substantial assistance, lack of private sector alternatives, and low paying capacity of
emerging entrepreneurs, the initial public investment in technical assistance is well justified for a period
of 2-3 years. In the long run, such activity is expected to be taken over by the private sector. For the
line of credit, the Government had desired a targeted line reserved exclusively for the dairy sector.
However, due to its potential adverse distortionary impact on resource allocation, it was decided to open
the credit line to the entire agriculture sector. For the financing channel, as described earlier, there are
no well developed banking institutions in Albania and it would take several years before any well
functioning bank is expected to emerge. However, the pressing long-term resource needs of the
agriculture sector need to be met. Any delay (until the emergence of good banks) in making these
resources available would be very detrimental to the sector so important to the Albanian economy. To
achieve this purpose, several alternatives were considered. Establishment of a separate specialized
institution at this stage would not be cost effective and in the long run would be counter productive.
Continuing with the agency arrangements used successfully under the ASAC were also not considered
desirable as the GOA should not continue to carry the credit risk. Rather the RCB as a banking
institution should be fully responsible for lending at its own risk. It is also recognized that based on the
strict application of OD 8.30 criteria, the RCB would not to be eligible to borrow funds on its own due
to its weak financial condition. However, RCB's condition is expected to improve in the future, and with
IDA assistance the Government is aggressively pursuing a restructuring/privatization plan for the RCB.
Therefore, it is proposed to onlend funds through the RCB to service the agriculture sector with RCB
taking full risk.
C.    Project Description
5.5    The proposed project would have two main components: Entrepreneurs Support component and
Investment component. The technical assistance would be provided to agro-processing enterprises and
the credit line would be available to the agriculture sector.
5.6    Entrepreneurs Support Component (US$2.1 million). The project would provide assistance to
agro-processing enterprises while focussing its support on the dairy industry. The project would fully
utilize the technical skills available in Albania and would strengthen these with outside expertise in project
management, business management, marketing and financial management. The focus would be on
providing technical support to entrepreneurs, farmers and farmers associations. The project would
provide assistance to farmers in the organization of new PFA's, in improving their operations and
management, as well as to the MAF in the formulation of a strategy for the promotion of PFA's including
legal framework, policy environment, etc. The project would also support the limited strengthening of
local technical institutions -- Food Research Institute, Agriculture and Food Design Institute, and Albanian
Dairy Association -- engaged in the provision of services to agro-industry. For that purpose a Technical
Services Unit (TSU), with the support of a foreign firm with Albanian counterparts has been established
under the direct supervision of the APD (para 6.2). The TSU would provide assistance to individual
private agro-processing entrepreneurs, farmers and their associations in the preparation of investment
proposals, and provide subsequent downstream extension advice. It would also provide assistance to the
Food Research Institute, Institute of Veterinary Research, and selected District Quality Control
Laboratories involved in the implementation of 1995 food quality control legislation. The project would
also include technical assistance to the ILU(RCB) for the appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. The
project would provide funds for foreign and local experts, training, laboratory equipment and materials,
travel, transportation and equipment. Further details are given in Annex 5.1.



- 20 -
5.7   Investment Component (US$S5.0 miin). The project would provide funds for making long-term
loans (including incremental working capital), at market rates, to agricultural sector which would include
production, processing, marketing, distribution and service activities. The Ministry of Finance (MOF)
would onlend IDA funds, under a subsidiary loan agreement, to the RCB in US dollars (with MOF
carrying the cross-currency risk) with up to ten years maturity, at LIBOR plus C.5%. Repayment
schedule of funds by the RCB to the MOF would not be linked with sub-loan maturities; this would help
the RCB in improving its financial structure. The RCB would onlend (through the ILU) to private
agriculture enterprises, entrepreneurs, farmers and farmers associations taking full credit risk (under
ASAC, the credit and foreign exchange risks were taken by the MOF). The ILU would be responsible
for carrying out the appraisal and approval decisions, and would seek the advice of TSU on the technical
aspects of sub-projects. For high transaction cost sub-projects, the RCB would receive from the
Government, based on the agreed criteria, (sub-projects located in remote areas, sub-loans of up to
US$30,000 and sub-loans to PFAs), incentive bonus of 2% to help defray the higher transaction costs
associated with processing of such scattered projects which are difficult to evaluate and monitor since they
depend so much on both upstream and downstream linkages. In order to maintain continued high sub-
loan standards, the RCB would be permitted to commit funds in excess of US$2.5 million only after
showing evidence that it has maintained satisfactory collection rates (90%) on sub-loans made under the
ASAC as well as under the proposed project. The RCB/GOA would maintain onlending arrangements
satisfactory to IDA. The GOA would consult IDA before making any changes in the ownership structure
of the RCB and would prepare by December 31, 1996, and implement, a satisfactory financial
restructuring and privatization plan for the RCB, as agreed under EFSAC project. Signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the RCB and MOF, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
5.8    Terms of Sub-loans. The sub-loans to sub-borrowers would be offered both in foreign currency
and Leks, at market rates. The foreign exchange risk on Lek sub-loans would be borne by the RCB and
on foreign currency sub-loans by the sub-borrowers. The sub-loans would be made on general conditions
applicable to RCB's investment loans, with positive real interest rates as already tested successfully under
the ASAC. For foreign currency sub-loans, interest rates would be linked with LIBOR with an
appropriate spread. Maximum sub-loan size would be $250,000 with a maximum of $400,000 equivalent
to any single sub-borrower; in deserving cases, exceptions to this limit may be granted with IDA
approval. The sub-loans would be evaluated on the basis of the business merit of sub-projects supported
by a business plan; sub-project viability evaluation would also include consideration of the availability
of essential services to farmers (e.g., veterinary doctors and medicines, animal feeds, etc.). Further
evaluation criteria would be available collateral and environmental impact of sub-projects. Business plan
requirements for smaller sub-projects (e.g., sub-loans up to US$30,000, farmers) would be kept simple.
The free limit on sub-loans would be US$200,000 equivalent thereby any sub-loan of US$200,000 and
above would be subject to IDA's prior review. The maximum maturity of sub-loans would be seven
years including grace period of up to one year, and minimum maturity two years. To encourage long
term lending, at least 50% of the funds would be reserved for sub-loans of maturity of four years or
longer. Sub-borrowers would normally provide at least 20 percent of total sub-project costs. However,
to encourage entrepreneurial development, in exceptional cases (e.g., small entrepreneurs, plant workers,
PFAs), the sub-borrowers may receive sub-loans of up to 100 percent of the sub-project costs with IDA's
prior approval. Sub-borrowers would need to demonstrate their credit-worthiness based on their capacity
to repay sub-loans out of projected cash generation or equity increases. Enterprises must maintain a debt-
equity ratio of no more than 70:30 and a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5:1. Eligible sub-
projects shall have a financial rate of return of at least 12 percent, in real terms. Sub-borrowers would
also be required by the ILU/RCB to adhere to basic environmental and procurement guidelines.



- 21 -
D.    Project Costs and Financing
5.9    Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$7.1 million including $5.0 million for
Investment and US$2.1 million for Entrepreneurs Support components as shown in Table 5.1 below:
Table 5.1 Summary of,Project Costs
(US$ ' 000)                %
Local     Foreign    Total      Foreign
(i) Entrepreneurs Support
Component
Technical Assistance               100       720        820            88
Equipment and Vehicles              70       760        830            92
Training and Study Tours            10        140       150            93
Operating Costs, Taxes and Duties   90        -          90           ---
Total Base Cost                    270      1,620     1,890            86
Physical Contingencies (5%)         15        90        105            86
Price Contingencies (5%)            15        90        105            86
Total Component Cost               300      1,800     2,100            86
(ii) Investment Credit Component    500      4,500     5,000            90
Total Proiect Cost                  800      6,300     7,100            89
5.10   The project costs have been estimated in US dollars, and local costs are expressed in US Dollars
at the exchange rate prevailing in July 1995 (90 Leks/US$1). No physical or price contingencies have
been applied to credit component because they reflect programs without precise, predetermined unit costs.
Physical and price contingencies of 5 percent each have been applied to Entrepreneurs Support activities.
5.11   Financing Plan. The proposed IDA Credit would be US$6.0 million equivalent (SDR 4.1
million). The Netherlands Government is providing grant cofinancing of US$1.0 million for the
Entrepreneurs Support component. Effectiveness of the Netherlands Grant Agreement would be a
Condition of Effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit. In view of Albania's budgetary constraints,
Government's contribution (US$0.1 million) would be limited to the provision of office space, cost of
administrative services, salaries of non incremental staff, and taxes and duties. TSU's Albanian staff
would be financed by the project as part of TSU foreign firm's contract.
E.    Environmental Aspects
5.12   The project in classified in category "B" in accordance with OD 4.01. Within the Ministry of
Health and Environmental Protection a working group was created in March 1992 -- the Committee of
Environmental Preservation and Protection. The Committee considers itself independent from the
Ministry of Health and Environment and has 13 employees in Tirana, and another 35 in the
regions/districts. With the assistance from the World Bank, an environmental assessment was carried out
and priorities areas for actions were identified. The study, Albania Environmental Strategy Study of June
1993, was used by the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection in drafting the National
Environmental Action Plan. The action plan specifies the actions to be taken in the short term, medium



- 22 -
term and long term (3-5 years). The committee would propose a new legislation on the environmental
standards, which most likely would be ready at the end of 1996. It should follow up on the level of
pollution created by the agro-processing plants when they start to operate again. Under the proposed
project, the TSU's foreign firm would assist GOA in reviewing food plant effluent standards and in
developing an action program to ensure that relevant government agencies monitor compliance.
5.13   In the past, the agro-processing plants in Albania were polluting the environment for example
through smoke from coal fired boilers, product wastes and waste water. In dairy plants, whey from
cheese production was returned to the state farms for pig feeding. The environmental legislation, which
is still in force, is a temporary legislation and apparently based on standards from the Former Soviet
Union. The latest revision of the standards were made in 1973 and ratified in 1975. The agro-processing
plants have had none or very simple waste water treatment, most of the waste water has gone into the
sewerage of the different cities. However, the cities do not have any sewerage treatment plants which
works, and all waste water goes to the rivers un-treated. It would take several years until cities have got
a sewerage treatment system into place.
5.14   The rehabilitation of the agro-processing plants would continue to create a certain level of
pollution in the disposal of plant effluent to the ditches/rivers, since the plants (or cities) do not have at
present any waste water control. The dairy plant would mainly produce market milk and cheese, no milk
powder or condensed milk would be manufactured, since the quantities of milk are too small in order to
start up such a production. Some by-products like whey could be sold to farmers for pig breading. The
waste water coming from many agro-processing and dairy plants would most likely have a BOD content
of 250-350 mg per liter. In such cases, a simple aeration tank with proper design could reduce the BOD
content with some 30 to 50 percent, and the remaining waste water could be acceptable for discharge into
the sewerage system. Under ASAC project, the ILU has established procedures for the review of
environmental impact of sub-projects.  These procedures have been reviewed by the Regional
Environmental Division.  The ILU  would review  each sub-project for compliance with basic
environmental guidelines which are consistent with Albanian Environmental legislation and World Bank
Environmental guidelines.
F.    Impact on Women
5.15   The proposed project is expected to have a positive impact on the women. In Albania, women
take primary responsibility for the management of ruminant stock and, dependent on the scale of the
operation, frequently take charge of the production and marketing of dairy products. Where women are
involved in farm products especially fruits, vegetables and milk marketing, the task may involve a bus
trip to town and the commitment of up to a half day to sell small quantities of products. Income thus
derived is frequently retained by women for household expenses though any balance is likely to be
submitted to the male household head on a regular basis and expenditure accounted for. While, agro-
products production, processing and marketing may afford women some control over the household
budget, it is a time consuming addition to the already onerous life of the female smallholder farmer.
Improved access to markets for agro-products should give relief to women in perhaps the most time
consuming tasks of one of the major activities at the farm, while at the same time providing regular
household income. The stimulation of private farmers associations would provide improved access to
input supplies and technical information with consequent impact on farm productivity and household
income. Credit for which women would be eligible, could permit access to more animals or investment
in small-scale processing, capturing traditional skills frequently held by women to add value to farm
products.



- 23 -
G.    Impact on Poverty
5.16   A typical Albanian farm today generates livestock surplus for sale while fruits and vegetables are
also picking up. Milk production alone generates about 20 percent of the value of agricultural GDP,
while associated ruminant meat production accounts for a further 8-12 per cent making ruminant
production the single most important activity in the rural sector and frequently the primary source of cash
income for the farm family. With an estimated over 60 percent of surplus milk, and other farm products
now unable to find a market, the revitalization of the agro-processing industry could have a significant
impact on smallholder farm family income. In monetary terms, a 10 percent increase in marketed milk
from the statistically average farm of 1.66 ha carrying 0.77 cows and producing 1,250 liters of milk
would raise family cash income by 2,250 Lek, an amount equivalent to a months wage as an agricultural
laborer. As farmer confidence in the economic recovery improves and the farm family self-sufficiency
mentality declines it is likely that a further 10 to 15 percent of production could be made available to the
market. Access to a reliable market outlet would ensure a regular cash income from dairy and other farm
products sales, a factor that frequently leads to higher and more timely investment in other agricultural
production activities, and is likely to stimulate increased investment in farm production, with most of such
incremental product marketed. Although the project components do not contain specific mechanisms for
targeting the least well off, it is expected, given the nature of the project and its components that the
population of project beneficiaries would have a larger proportion of poor people than the population as
a whole. In Albania, farmers are generally poor with very small farms and only I to 3 animals. The
project is expected to benefit them most although indirectly through improved marketability of farm
products.  Therefore, the project would be rated as "Poverty Category:  Program  for Targeted
Interventions" in accordance with the provisions of OD 4.15.
H.    Project Benefits and Risks
5.17   The project would contribute several benefits to the Albanian economy. It would promote
restructuring of the agro-processing sector. As stated above, it is expected to help improve rural incomes
by putting in place a market access to farmers to sell their surplus farm products such as fruits,
vegetables, meat and milk thereby reducing their wastage and generating regular cash. Milk provides
a daily cash flow throughout the year without excessive borrowing and as such empowers women. It
tempers some of the seasonality in cash availability in rural areas which could lead to poverty reduction
as well as an overall better diet in rural and urban areas. Access to markets would also result in
improved farm production. The urban consumer would receive supply of quality processed food
products. It would make strides in institution-building improving private entrepreneurship and human
capital through training, technical education and advice. Organization of PFAs would have several
indirect benefits, e.g., system to supply farm inputs, better product handling techniques, pooling of
supplies for better markets. Improvements in the quality control system would also have a positive
impact on food production and nutritional intake. Application of project evaluation techniques including
financial rate of return would ensure that only commercially viable investments are supported; all sub-
projects would have at least 12% rate of return in real terms. Given liberalized prices of most agro-
products, open international trade with low tariffs, and market based foreign exchange rates, the border
prices are reflected in prevailing domestic prices in Albania. Thus the economic returns on the
investments to be financed are expected to be either equal to or higher than their financial returns.
5.18   The project would carry significant risks. Given limited institutional capacity, the implementation
may be slow; this risk would be mitigated by the establishment of TSU by engaging an experienced
foreign firm. Privatization of agro-processing plants may not succeed as fast as needed; this risk is being
addressed under the ASAC with appropriate policy conditional ities; and the Government is taking serious
steps to privatize agro-industrial enterprises. The private entrepreneurs may be reluctant to borrow loans



- 24 -
at market rates; discussions with private and public sector have revealed strong interest in loans and the
ILU has a pipeline of good private sector investments. Another major risk would be institutional and
financial capacity of the RCB to be able to service loans and monitor their performance; this risk is being
addressed under ASAC and EFSAC projects with appropriate institutional development program and
conditionalities. The RCB's condition is expected to improve in the future. The Government is
committed to restructure/privatize the RCB with majority foreign ownership. It is aggressively pursing
this option with potential foreign buyers. The ILU would approve and supervise sub-loans and will have
foreign expertise available under the project. While the risks are significant, project design includes
specific steps to manage them. In addition, in view of these risks the approach would be to keep
flexibility in project design and to enable necessary adjustments during project implementation.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Organization and Management
6.1    The MAF would take overall management for the proposed project with Director of the APD
responsible for project execution related to the Entrepreneurs Support component and the RCB taking
responsibility for the Investment component. The Director of the APD would be advised by the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) established by the MAF in July 1993 with the primary objective of
involving private sector in the formulation and implementation of the proposed project as well as in the
planning of a long term strategy for the development of the dairy industry. This Committee, chaired by
the MAF Vice Minister, includes Director of the APD as its Secretary, Director (Agriculture and Animal
Production, MAF), representatives from the IKU, RCB, ADA, PFAs and other private entrepreneurs.
To avoid duplication, the PCC would have a good working relationship with ADA, and IKU as these are
represented on the PCC. The Project Implementation Plan has been agreed with the Government at
negotiations (Annex 6.1).
6.2    Technical Services Unit. Project implementation and day-to-day activities of the project would
be carried out through a Technical Services Unit (Annex 5.11. Agreement has been reached with the
APD that the TSU would have independence in implementing its agreed work program. The TSU would
consist of a foreign firm experienced in dairy processing (including milk collection, organization of PFAs,
processinig, quality conr:rol, marketing and project management). The firm would provide quality experts-
- one long term consultant for 2 years, as well as short term consultants (20 person months) for
specialized needs who would visit Albania when required to provide assistance in areas with skills gap.
The firm would also be responsible for all project related training. Within two months of its joining the
firm would recruit of 4-6 qualified Albanian professional counterparts from the private sector or an
Albanian institution under terms satisfactory to IDA. These counterparts would be trained in all aspects
of TSU's activities and towards the end of the project would take over project management from the
foreign firm. A majority of TSU's Albanian staff would be from the private sector. In addition to the
foreign firm, some short term experts (foreign and local) would be employed as needed to support TSU
and the ILU. The TSU would charge fee for its services from the second year of its operation.
6.3   It is expected that at the end of this project, the TSU would convert itself into a private consulting
firm or be wound up. The preference would be that the TSU become a private body supported by the
industry with no continuing fiscal burden on the Government. Procurement for the foreign firm and
acquisition of vehicles and office equipment is being undertaken under the PPF Advance. In addition,
some training and study tour activities would also be carried out under the PPF in order to do advance
work for the preparation of bankable investment projects. The TSU and APD, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be maintained during project implementation.



- 25 -
B.      Procurement
Table 6.1 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT METHODS                     TOTAL COST
PROJECT ELEMENT                  ICB      NCB         OTHER          N.B.F. f/
l _________________________              _____                   USS   million   g/
1. CIVILWO Wo_                                                    --                            --
2. GooDs
2.1 Vehicles, Office Equip. & Supplies                            0.20 a/                        0.20
(0.20)
2.2 Laboratory Equipment & Materials                              0.65 a/         0.10           0.75
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________(0 .65 )   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
3.1 Technical Assistance                                          0.(10 b/        0.80           0.90
(0.1I0)
3.2 Training &Study Tours                           -0 .05Sc/                     0.10           0.15
_______    ~(0.05)_                    _ _  _ _ _ _
4. MiscELtANEous
4.1 Investment Credit                                             (5.O0d/b/       --             5.00
(5.00)
4.2 Operating costs, taxes and duties                             0.10e/                         0.10
incl. above
4.3 PPF (US$0.60 million)                                                        --           incl. above
l-      --              6.10            1.00          7.10
TOTALS                                                            (6.00)
a)    International shopping (aggregate US$780,000) packages estimated between US$50,000 and US$250,000.  National
shopping (aggregate US$170,000) packages estimated at less than US$50,000 per contract.
b)     Services of consultants/institutions/furms to be engaged in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
c)     Local and intenational training and study tours will require prior IDA approval.
d)     Line of Credit-- pmcurement of goods to be undertaken by sub-borrowers (private entrepreneurs) under the supervision
of the ILU in accordance with the established commercial practices acceptable to IDA.
e)     Not applicable.
f)     Netherlands cofinancing US$1 million-- all procurement will follow IDA Procurement Guidelines.
g)     Figures are rounded off. Figures in parentheses represent IDA Credit financing.
6.4     Procurement Arrangements.   Major project elements, their estimated  costs and proposed
procurement methods are given in Table 6.1. All procurement financed with IDA Credit would be
carried out according to Bank Guidelines, "Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(Procurement Guidelines)", dated January 1995. After project approval, a project launch workshop
would be organized in Tirana in February 1996.
6.5      Country Procurement Procedures.  A  Country Procurement Strategy Paper (CPSP) has been
prepared for Albania. The country procurement assessment for Albania is scheduled for February 1996.
According to the CPSP, the provisions of the Procurement Decree currently in force in Albania are not



- 26 -
acceptable for use under IDA-financed projects. The Procurement Plan (Annex 6.2) identifies all major
contract packages, their estimated values, methods and dates of key-procurement targets.
6.6    Procurement Implementation Agency.  Procurement related to the Entrepreneurs Support
component would be the responsibility of the MAF's Project Management Unit established under the
IDA-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (PMU-IRP). This Unit has already gained considerable
experience in project management and procurement and is properly equipped and staffed. Procurement
under the Investment component would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers under the supervision of the
ILU. The ILU has gained considerable experience in this area under the IDA-financed ASAC. Standard
IDA bidding documents would be used for all procurement which follow International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures.
6.7    Methods of Procurement. (i) Investment Component. Under this component purchase of civil
works, equipment, materials/supplies, services, etc. would be financed by the sub-loans. The procurement
of goods would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers (receiving sub-loans from the RCB) through the
established commercial practices in Albania involving obtaining of multiple quotations from different
suppliers/countries, and which are acceptable to IDA in terms of IDA's basic principles of procurement.
All contracts of US$250,000 and above would be procured following ICB procedures. Procurement of
consultancy services would follow the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Procurement
of consultancy contracts of up to US$50, 000 would be carried out under the supervision of the RCB.
6.8   (ii) Entrepreneurs Support Component.  The total amount of funds allocated to the
Entrepreneurs Support component is US$2.0 million (including US$1.0 million cofinancing from the
Netherlands Government for which IDA procurement guidelines will be followed) to finance foreign and
local experts, laboratory, transport and office equipment/materials, and travel, training and study tours
(see para 5.6). National Shopping- Goods estimated to cost under US$50,000 per contract (aggregate
US$170,000) will be procured under National Shopping (NS) procedures based on comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers. Given the presence of a number of foreign
suppliers with offices in the country, there is sufficient competition within the country for the goods to
be procured. International Shopping- Goods estimated to cost over US$50,000 per contract but under
US$250,000 per contract (aggregate US$780,000) will be procured through International Shopping (IS)
based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers from two different
countries. ICB-- all contracts of US$250,000 and above would be procured following ICB procedures.
6.9    Consultant Services. Procurement of consultant services would follow the Guidelines for Use
of Consultants by Borrowers and by the World bank as Executing Agency (Guidelines for the use of
Consultants), dated August 1981. Bank's Standard "Form of Contract, Consultant's Services" will be
used for all major consultant services contracts. Some 4-6 consultant services contracts in the range of
US$10,000 and US$600,000 are expected under the project for the TSU and ILU, as per details given
in Annex 6.2.
6.10  IDA's Prior Review. Procurement documentation for all International Shopping contracts for
goods will be subject to IDA's prior review. In addition, first two National Shopping contracts will be
subject to IDA's prior review. Consultant contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 and more will be
subject to IDA's prior review In this respect prior IDA approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, evaluation reports and contracts will be required.  Prior IDA review
will also apply to the terms of reference of all consultant contracts, to the employment of individuals, to
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA and
to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above US$50,000. Other procurement such as



- 27 -
external/internal training and study tours will be carried out with IDA's advance approval. Procurement
activities not requiring IDA's prior review would be monitored by IDA supervision missions during their
visits.
C.    Disbursements
6.11   The proposed IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The closing
date would be June 30, 1999 or before depending on the rate of disbursements (Annex 6.3).
Disbursements for the Entrepreneurs Support component would be handled by the PMU-IRP and for the
Investment component by the ILU(RCB). Disbursements for consultants and goods contracts for less than
US$50,000 equivalent and sub-loans contracts for less than US$200,000 equivalent will be based on the
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The required documents would be retained by the PMU-IRP and the
ILU, respectively for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the
last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and
visiting IDA staff upon request. The project would finance the following expenditures as given in Table
6.2 below:
Table 6.2 Summary of Expenditures to be Financed
Categories                     Amount (US$ mil)s) Percentage of Expenditures
1. Sub-loans by the RCB to               5.00         100%
sub-borrowers
2. Vehicles, equipment and                0.15        100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
laboratory materials                             expenditures (ex-factory cost); 85% for
other items procured locally
3. Technical assistance, study tours     0.10         100%
and training
4. Refund of PPF Advance                 0.60         --
5. Unallocated                           0.15         --
a)     Excludes US$1.0 million Netherlands Cofuiancing to be disbursed through IDA.
6.12 Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation the GOA would establish, maintain
and operate under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account in US dollars in the Bank
of Albania. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be
limited to US$0.4 million. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached
the level of the SDR 1.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation
of US$0.8 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications
should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as
other appropriate supporting documents. At negotiations, these authorized allocations have been finalized
with the Government.



- 28 -
D.    Supervision, Monitoring, and Reporting
6.13   Supervision. Given its nature and limited Albanian capacity, the project would require close
follow up and supervision from IDA. Regular supervision missions would be undertaken including field
visits and reviews of sub-projects financed under the credit component managed by the RCB. After
project approval project launch workshop would be organized in Tirana in February 1996. During the
first year three supervision missions (18-20 staff weeks) are planned. During the second (15 staffweeks)
and third year (12 staff weeks) 2-3 missions are expected each year. The missions would be staffed with
IDA staff and consultants with expertise in agro-processing, quality control and institution building. At
negotiations agreements have been reached that both APD (TSU) and RCB (ILU) would submit to IDA
quarterly progress reports on project implementation including procurement, the status of each activity
or component and number of loans issued or pending and amount of investments. Both APD (TSU) and
ILU would also be responsible for preparing annual work plans and budgets establishing targets as
envisaged in an implementation program to be prepared by both institutions before project effectiveness.
The APD (TSU) would also prepare a comprehensive progress report and recommendations which would
form the basis of the mid-term review. A final report would be prepared by both agencies (ADP and
RCB) at project completion.
6.14   Monitoing. Performance indicators would be monitored by the TSU and the ILU (Annex 6.4).
In order to ensure continued strong ownership with the Government, Project Performance Indicators were
finalized and agreed during negotiations. A Mid-Term Review would be conducted, by July 31, 1997,
which at that time would take stock of the project implementation including the review of the status of
the TSU with a view to look at the need to establish a permanent apex institutional mechanism (e.g.,
Private Dairy Development Foundation) to further promote dairy development in Albania in the long-
term, i.e., beyond the project period. This review would also include evaluation of the terms of the
investment credit including onlending arrangements. Prior to the Mid-Term Review, the MAF would
present, by June 30, 1997, a mid-term progress report on the project, and a development strategy for the
promotion of PFAs.
6.15   Accounts and Audits. Separate project accounts would be maintained by the two agencies as
follows: (i) by the ILU for each of the accounts using IDA Credit funds channeled to sub-borrowers;
(ii) by the PMU-IRP for costs incurred under the Entrepreneurs Support component, including, training,
tours, vehicles, equipment, etc. Assurance have been obtained at negotiations that the above accounts
would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices
acceptable to IDA. The responsibility for auditing MAF's accounts, as in the case of all Government
entities, rests with the Auditor General. The accounts of other institutions involved in the project are
audited by independent auditing firms. All project accounts including RCB's all accounts would be
audited, based on international standards, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the auditor's
opinion and long form report satisfactory to IDA on audits would be provided to IDA no later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    The following agreements have been reached during negotiations:
(a)    The ILU (RCB) would appraise, approve and supervise sub-loans with RCB taking full
credit risk and onlending terms of the Investment component would be as outlined in
paras 5.7 & 5.8;



- 29 -
(b)    The RCB would commit funds in excess of US$2.5 million under the Investment
component only after showing evidence of maintaining satisfactory collection rates (90%)
on sub-loans made under the proposed project and under the ASAC (para 5.7);
(c)    The GOA/RCB would prepare by December 31, 1996, and implement, a satisfactory
financial restructuring and privatization plan for the RCB, and would maintain
satisfactory onlending arrangements including the ILU (para 5.7);
(d)    The ILU would review each sub-project for compliance with basic environmental
guidelines (para 5.14);
(e)    The MAF would maintain the APD and TSU during project, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (paras 6.2-6.3);
(f)   IDA Procurement guidelines would be followed in all project procurement (paras 6.4-
6. 10);
(g)    The GOA would establish, maintain and operate under terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in the Bank of Albania (para
6.12);
(h)    The APD(TSU) and the ILU(RCB) would submit to IDA quarterly progress reports on
project implementation (para 6.13);
(i)    The MAF would present, by June 30, 1997, a mid-term progress report on the project,
and a development strategy for the promotion of PFAs (para 6.14);
(j)    A Mid-Term Review would be conducted, by July 31, 1997, to take stock of project
implementation (para 6.14); and
(k)    The ILU(RCB) and PMU-IRP (APD) would maintain satisfactory project accounts and
these project accounts and RCB's accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to IDA and audit reports provided to IDA annually (para 6.15).
7.2   The Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be: (i) signing of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the MOF and the RCB (para 5.7); and (ii) effectiveness of the Netherlands
Grant Agreement (para 5.11).
7.3    Recommendation. With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 4.1 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) to the
Government of Albania under standard IDA terms with 40 year maturity.
November 15, 1995



Annex 1.1                                                  -30 -
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Population, Villages and Farms by District, 1994
Rural        Number of           Number of Farms         Arable Land   Average
Districts          Population      Villages     Land Owners*   Land Users*      Area (ha)   Farm Size
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ________  ________  ____Lan _Owners   Land __Us     _r_**     (ha)
n D        : ; 1,293,849T1,293,849               1,595         247,622         79,28S      511 864      :1.57
Berat                           229,900            120          17,762          2,562       35,522        1.75
Kucove                           16,024             15           1,358           1,781       5,503        1.75
Durres                           66,430             61          12,591          3,692       26,405         1.62
Kavaje                           57,123             63          11,951           1,286      25,134        1.90
Elbasan                         116,220            174          22,402          3,069       39,221         1.54
Peqin                            23,256             49           5,800            260        8,523         1.41
Fier                            129,221            108          20,810          13,661      57,031         1.65
Mallakaster                      25,601             37           6,832             20       14,134        2.06
Knije                            41,263             41           8,747           1,983      15,231        1.42
Lac                              22,975             22           4,516          1,339       10,228        1.75
Lezhe                            50,385             63          10,232          2,438       18,583        1.47
Lushnje                          98,035            113          19,494          6,143       51,136         1.99
Sarande                          35,645             51           5,027          4,519       15,359        1.61
Delvine                          24,909             48           5,279           1,088      10,466        1.64
Shkoder                         113,379            135          24,146          5,094       30,243         1.03
Malso Madhe                      41,060             55          11,705            105       15,255        1.29
Tirana                          122,876            148          17,029          14,162      33,103         1.06
Vlore                            86,902             99          17,852          8,366       37,812        1.44
Korca                           102,025            149          16,210          7,692       47,000         1.97
Devofl                           32,283             44           7,879             25       15,975        2.02
fMoan; murid, s:                661,889           1,301        150,928         14,863      J90,617        1.15
Diber                            80,533            138          22,281          2,790       19,365        0.77
Bulqize                          35,356             60          10,505           1,392       8,091        0.68
Gjirokaster                      38,175             95           7,806          2,445       17,693        1.73
Garmsh                           33,419             92           6,029            520       10.360         1.58
Kolonje                          16,107             75           3,590            744       11,260        2.60
Kukes                            62,185             90          12,790            510       11,416        0.86
Has                              18,231             29           2,587           1,719       6,492        1,51
Librazhd                         66,707             73          13,127            446       15,519        1.14
Mat                              57,331             85          12,170            430       14,123        1.12
Mirdite                          41,384             80           9293           1,035        6,318        0.61
Permet                           26,145             96           5,542            375       14,723        2.49
Pogradec                         50,883             72          11,857            200       17,506        1.45
Puke                             41,134             74          10,119            357        5,165        0.49
Skrapar                          27,924            101           5,498            565       12,141        2.00
Tepelene                         30,067             76           7,723            232       13,055        1.64
Tropoje                          24,923             65          10,011           1,103       7,390        0.66
Total ;i705X; 70    i <0  0   001,955,738       .2,896         398,550        -94,148      702,481        1.43
* Land Owners: land in former cooperatives is transferred to farmers as property.
** Land Users: land in former state farms is 'Land in use'. The land remains state property.
Source: Albania: Agriculture and Food Statistics, 1994



- 31 -                                                 Annex 1.2
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Micro-Environment
plains        Mountains           Total
Districts        Districts        Country
Number of Districts                                      20                16               36
Number of villages                                     1,595            1,301            2,896
Total Population '93 (x 1000)                          2,312              852            3,164
Rural Population '93 (x 1000)                          1,293              662            1,955
RuralVTotal Population                                 56%               78%              62%
Urban/Total Population                                 44%               22%              38%
Number of land owners '93                           247,622           150,928          398,550
+ Number of land users '93                           79,285            14,863           94,148
Total Number of 'farms' 1993                         326,907          165,791          492,698
Average number of farms per village                     205               127              170
Agricultural land area '93 (x 1,000 ha)                 512               190              702
Total number of cattle '93 (x 1,000)                    439               216              655
Total number of cows '93 (x 1,000)                      242               116              358
Total number of sheep '93 (x 1,000)                    1,139              773            1,912
Total number of ewes '93 (x 1,000)                      843               572            1,415
Total number of goats '93 (x 1,000)                     645               649            1,294
Total number of does '93 (x 1,000)                      477               471              948
Total milk production '93 (x 1,000 ton)                 486               185              671
- Cow milk                                      412              125              537
- Sheep milk                                     37               22               59
- Goat milk                                      37               38               75
Average farm size '93 (ha)                              1.57             1.15             1.42
Avemge number of cows per farm                          0.74             0.70             0.73
Average number of ewes + does per farm                  4.04             6.29             4.80
Average milk production per fanrm (kg)                 1,487            1,116            1,362
- of which cow milk (%)                                 85%              68%              80%
* Korea and Devoll are included in the Plains Districts.
Source: Albania: Agriculture and Food Statistics, 1994.



Annex 1.3                                                - 32 -
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock (Ruminants) by District, 1994
CATTLE (000)            SHEEP (000)             GOATS (000)
Total       Cows        Total       Ewes        Total       Does
Lain, 1.K0 . .    .....1             27.        11j]7.0.01   875..4      6887        53.
Berat                         32.8        17.7        75.2        56.1        53.8        40.4
Kuqove                         6.5         3.4        10.3         8.1         2.1         1.6
Durres                        23.0        13.5        35.6        25.7         7.2         5.4
Kavajc                        25.3        14.4        23.9        22.8         8.5         2.2
Elbasan                       54.8        22.6        75.8        58.4        64.4        50.7
Peqin                         11.1         6.0        19.7        14.2        12.5        11.0
Fier                          44.9        27.8        74.5        57.5         7.3         6.1
Mallakaster                   14.8         7.4        57.6        33.8        33.1        25.2
Kruje                         18.1        10.3        24.5        18.3        13.5        11.5
Lac                           10.0         5.6        12.9         9.5        10.9         8.1
Lezhe                         18.9        10.5        23.3        22.4        19.4        14.5
Lushnje                       48.2        22.0        50.2        38.7         4.3         3.5
Samande                        5.5         3.2       115.9        32.8        82.2        62.5
Delvine                        4.5         2.4        51.3        42.3        23.6        17.2
Shkoder                       42.8        34.4        72.9        59.2        37.7        43.3
Malso Madhe                   12.9         6.3        53.6        32.4        33.1        27.8
Timna                         38.9        12.1        60.1        43.3        42.6        36.5
Vlore                         24.9        18.7       151.7       112.4       114.6        87.0
Korma                         40.0        22.4       133.4        98.7        58.9        43.4
DevoU                         14.4         7.9        26.1        18.3        15.5        10.9
,~~a  IN*1s0          l      - }  0:l f 2:5-:t2S.4 00 100     t g 24:.8! ii;  *5.30:   6tf00    t4 Z.3  7 0 -1    :0503.2f
Diber                         35.7        17.5        73.5        50.0        47.1        32.0
Bulqize                       10.8         5.2        27.3        18.6        22.2        15.1
Gjirokater                    10.0         5.2       122.2        33.1        58.8        44.7
Graznsh                       12.2         6.1        36.1        25.1        62.6        32.8
Kolonje                        9.6         5.1        37.2        27.4        42.9        31.3
Kukes                         26.8        13.4        61.6        43.9        21.4        15.2
Has                            8.9         4.2        23.3        15.5        16.7        10.9
Librazhd                      22.2        11.2        48.5        34.0        48.6        34.2
Mat                           25.2        12.1        56.5        41.1        44.6        32.0
Mirdite                       11.4         5.6        23.7        16.1        33.4        23.0
Pennet                        11.4         5.7        48.1        35.7        82.3        54.5
Pogradec                      16.2         8.4        65.4        32.3        34.1        26.3
Puke                          11.3         5.4        23.4        15.2        32.4        21.7
Skrapar                       10.0         6.3        52.8        39.0        63.4        46.8
Tepelene                      15.9         7.8       110.8        82.5        84.2        62.2
Tropoje                       14.8         7.1        43.0        30.5        23.2        24.9
. ..  ..... .........       743.5  I    400.3  I0              14 7.7      1393.0      1017.1
Source: Albania: Agriculture and Food Statistics, 1994.



- 33 -                                              Annex 1.4
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Production by District, 1994
Total Milk        Cows            Sheep           Goats
Producton         Milk            Milk             Milk
Districts                    (ton)           (ton)           (ton)            (ton)
. :-:  -         :  - --:  571,100  .        *4 1.           421"790            To
Berat                            31,700          26,100           2,600            3,000
Delvine                           8,000           4,000           2,300            1200
Devoll                           14,100          12,500             700            1700
Durres                           32,300          30,800            1,000            500
Elbasan                          50,300          44,200           2,600            3,500
Fier                             57,700          54,800           2,400             500
Kavaje                           31,900          30,000            1,400            500
Korea                            48,200          39,500           4,900            3,800
Kruje                            19,400          17,700             800             900
Kucove                            6,100           5,600             400             100
Lac                               9,400           8,400             300             700
Lezhe                            19,400          17,400            1,000           1,000
Lushnje                          59,100          56,300           2,400             400
Malesi e Madhe                   11,600           6,800            1,900           2,900
Mallakaster                      14,000          10,100            1,700           2,200
Peqin                             8,300           6,900             600             800
Sarandc                          15,300           4,700           4,700            5,900
Shkoder                          53,600          46,500           2,900            4,200
Tirana                           48,600          43,700           2,100            2,800
Vlorc                            32,100          18,100           6,200            7,800
h  tboahi.  -fds                io$,s   -:      140,300          25,700           42,500
Bulqize                           8,100            6100             800            1,200
Dibr                             22,900          18,400           2,200            2,300
Gjirokaster                      18,100           8,800           5,200            4,100
Gtarnsh                          10,900           7,100            1,000           2,800
Kolonje                           9,200           5,600            1,100          2,500
Kukes                            16,600          13,400           1,800            1,400
Has                               5,700           4,300             400            1,000
Librazhdi                        15,100          11,400            1300            2,400
Mat                             16,100           12,300           1500            2,300
Mirdite                           8,300           5,900             600            1,800
Pemiet                           14,900           7,500           I,500            5,900
Pogradec                         15,000          11,500           1,300           2,200
Puke                              7,700           5,600             300            1,800
Skrapar                          11,700           5,700           1,700           4,300
Tepelene                         18,100           9,400           3,600            5,100
Tropoje                          10,400           7,300            1 ,400          1 ,700
TOTAL                     779,900         624,400          68,600          86,900
Source: Albania -- Agriculture and Food Statistics, 1994



Annex 2.1                                                         - 34 -
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pasta Factories: Condition and Production (August '94)
PRODUCTION CAPACITY:
(IN TON WHEAT/DAY)                PRESENT
DISTRICT/          YEAR OF           TECHNICAL  INSTALLED   ACTUAL    PRODUCTION    REMARKS
CITY         INSTALLATION          CONDITION    INTLE                  CUL          (TON PASTA/DAY)
LONG +          LONG +           AUGUST '94
SHORT           SHORT
Berat                   1973         bad               10                      7
Durres                  1980         good              10    + 5              10                              privatized
Korca                   1965         medium             8    + 6               7               7 to 8         privatized
Peqin                   1972         bad               10                      8               6 to 7
Permet                  1972          bad               8     + 4              -
Peshkopi                1974         bad                5                      3
(Dibm)
Sarande                 1952         very bad           5                      -
Shkodra                 1983         medium            10    + 5               7               5 to 6         closed down
Tirana                  1965          bad               8     + 4              6               4 to 5
Vlore                   1985          medium           10    + 5               7               2 to 3
Total: 10    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~9   ~+29                                      abu  7114+o            .   .... ....
*     Due to the poor condition of the installations in most mills, the present total technical production
capacity is much lower than the installed capacity. The installations for 'short' pasta are obsolete.
Source: Albania: Ministry of Agriculture and Food, May 1995.



- 35 -                                                  Annex 3.1
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Plants, Cheese Plants and Milk Supply, 1990
DAIY PLANS          RURAL        TOTAL
|DIUCT                LARGE    SMALL                      (TONS)
Pkis -Mt                              : -   ---14  3    -      208      133,5#4
Berat (Kucove)                          I          -           19        8,500
Durres/Karaje                           I          -            8        12,700
Elbassan (Peqin)                        2          -           20        7,000
Fier (Mallkaster)                       I          -           12        14,250
Kruje (Lac)                                        I            8        6,550
Lezhe                                   I                       5         1,850
Lushnje                                 I          -            4        16,780
Sarande (Delvine)                       I          1           26        9,200
Shkader (Malesi e Nadhe)                I          -           21        12,300
Timana                                  3          -            8       20,620
Vlore                                    -         1           38        9,340
Korce (Devoll)                          2          -           39        14,450
Mo - . :                .       .   - ic~,  4      4          357       37,380
Diber (Bulqize)                         1          -           15        3,460
Gjirokaster                             -         2            34        7,000
Grarshh                                            -           16         1,940
Kolonje                                 I          -           26        3,100
Kukes (Has)                              -         -           30         1,750
Librazhdi                                -         -           29         1,900
Mat                                      -         -           40         1,550
Mirdite                                  -         -           16          680
Permet                                   -        1            25        4,500
Progradec                               I          -           13        2,450
Puke                                                           27          580
Skrapar                                 I          -           24        3,700
Tepelene                                           1           26        3,100
Tropoje                                                        37         1,660
Toual                         -585                                      170,920
Source: Albania: Ministry of Agriculture and Food, September 1994



Annex 3.2                                                      - 36 -
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Processing Capacity of Large and Medium Dairy Plants
CAPACITY           PRESENT USE
LOCATION OF DAIRY              YEAR OF           (TON/DAY            (TON/DAY)             REMARKS
PLANT              CONSTRUCTION                         JL   9         ET  9
)   JULY '93    SEPT. '94
Berat                             1975               40             1             1        closed
Durms                             1976               50             2             -        closed
Elbsan                            1972               30             2                      privatized
Elbasn (Cerik)                    1976                10            I             I        closed
Fier                              1976               50             4             -        closed
Lczhe                             1988               20             -             -
Lushnjc                           1969               40             10            10
Sarande                           1967               20             7             7
Shkoder                           1970               40             8             -        closed
Tirana (old plant)                1970                50            -             -        closed
Timna (cheese plant)              1984               20                           -        closed
Tirana (new plant)                1986                70                          -        closed
Korma (Belisht)                                       10            I             10       privatized
Korma                             1988                30            2             -        closed
Diber (Peahkopi)                  1990                10            I             I
Kolonje (Erreke)                  1970                10            I             -        closed
Pogradec                          1974                10            I             I
Skmpar                            1984                10            1             -        closed
Source: Ministiy of Agriculture and Food, September 1994.



- 37 -                                                  Annex 3.3
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Production Model: Milk Production Gross Margins
Low Input        Low Input       High Input
Scenario        Scenario         Scenario
(1 cow herd)    (2 cow herd)     (2 cow herd)
Revenues
Milk Sales                                175,500           35,100           89,600
Heifer calf sale                            7,875           15,750           32,000
Yearling steer sale                         4,752            9,504           14,933
Cull cows (15% replacement rate)            4,032            8,064            9,072
Manue value                                   240              480             640
Surplus nuize sale                         15,960           16,720            7,600
Total Revenues                             34,449           68,896          146,245
Expenses
Calf Rearing                                4,860            9,720           14,400
Artificial Insemination                       282              564             624
Veterinary treatbent
Antibiotic                            1,050            2,100            2,480
Internal parasitea                      350              700            1,653
Mastitic                                 70              140              140
Veterinarian visit                      400              800             800
Fodder Crops
Alfalfa (replaced 3 yearly)           2,322            4,844            4,400
Alfalfa (annual maintenance)          1,752            2,180            2,380
Maize                                 8,799           12,570            9,070
Oats                                      0                0            5,472
Clover                                    0                0            5,442
Winter cabbage                        1,172            2,344                0
Feed Supplement
Wheat bran                                0                0            8,000
Maize                                     0                0               0
Miscellaneous 10%                           1,620            2,602            4,046
Total Expenses                             22,676           38,344           50,900
Net return                                 11,773           30,554           87,339
Net retum per cow                          11,773           15,277           43,669
Labor requirement
Animal husbandry (person days)               274               319             319
Fodder production (person days)                55              III              118
Total Labor Requirement                       328              431             436
Net Return/person day                          36               71             200
Breakeven Yield (kg)                          428              168              71
Breakeven Price                               5.9              2.3              0.5
Source: FAO (LP) Staff Analysis, April 1994



Annex 4.1                                              - 38 -
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MINISTER
UYt       Ii*ma       DeCan eteae              Depibeni      Vice        Lepi         Ai.        oepeie
d          Cee          of    |      of          d          Mitistr      Ohce        rogram        d
seed                 Fo egnRbeabri  FosranrPaue  Scene Qual.                        O e(APO)      Perel
Reseaich
(lVR NJ, IPBU
I-s
dEcn0        d        dNaLd       dAg*      dMSbic       d             d          d          d   |     d        d |
I ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ ,J   ij
& Food  FoWRmS    Td Id    h4eci
g DeswI  Inse 0Sersic lht:  jVsiya
~iUsL .  ..... - L



- 39 -                                       Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 14
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Commercial Bank
1. The Financial Sector in Albania
A. Institutional Setting
1.  Lack of Banking Skills. Since the democratic revolution in 1991, the supply of financial services
by the formal banking sector is constrained by a general inability of banks to respond to a growing credit
demand by the new private sector.  Bankers under the centrally-planned economy were mere
bookkeepers, transferring budget funds to state enterprises. There were no hard budget constraints and
therefore no need to assess borrowers' creditworthiness and ability to repay a loan. Banks now face the
need for radical change as they convert themselves into independent decision-makers involved in all
aspects of financial intermediation. Staff training and outside technical assistance for state-owned banks,
as well as the establishment of new private banks with strong foreign partners, are both required in order
to close the gap between the previous centrally-controlled banking system and a system of efficient
financial intermediation in a free-enterprise regime.
2.  Creation of State Banks. The emergence of commercial banking institutions, as separate legal
entities with a customer base and staff separate from the Central Bank, is a very recent phenomenon in
Albania. Based on Law No. 7491 of April 29, 1991 on the "Main Constitutional Provisions", the State
Bank of Albania (later transformed into the Bank of Albania (BOA), the Central Bank) was sub-divided
into four banks: the National Bank, the Albanian Commercial Bank, the Savings Bank (SB), and the Bank
for Agriculture and Development (BAD). Each of these banks were created through individual laws.
In January of 1993, the National Bank and the Albanian Commercial Bank were merged into the National
Commercial Bank (NCB). Under the IDA-supported Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC,
FY93), BAD was split into the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) and the BAD in Liquidation, as of
October 1, 1993. RCB received the mandate to complete the liquidation of the BAD. The Ministry of
Finance (MOF) owns the capital and exercises management control over all state-owned commercial
banks. See Table I for an overview of the Albanian banking sector.
3.  Private Banks. Since 1993, a number of small private banks have been created in the form of joint-
ventures with foreign partners, including the Albanian-Italian Bank, the Arab Albanian Islamic Bank
(AAIB), and the Dardania Bank (DB). These banks are slowly building up their capacities to mobilize
household deposits and to lend to few selected credit customers, but as yet they play no major role
providing investment finance for agricultural and other rural activities. New bank licensing regulations
were issued in June 1995 to facilitate the entry of further new private banks, and some 20 applications
have been received since then by BOA. An initiative by the German KfW aims at creating a lending
institution for small- and medium-scale enterprises by end-1995. The new Albanian-American Enterprise
Fund is also expected to start lending activities for small and medium sized businesses, as well as equity
participation and possibly guarantee operations, by early 1996. Overall financial and banking sector
development, including specific regulatory measures in the banking sector, are supported under the Bank-
financed Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC, FY94).



Annex 4.2                                                -40 -
Page 2 of 14
Table 1: Banking Sector in Albania (end-April 1995)
NCB       SB       RCB       AIB      AAIB       DB         All banks
July 94   April 95
TOTAL LOANS
in Lek billion            3.38     1.74      3.65      0.18               0.16      8.22      9.07
in USS million equiv.    37.5     18.9      40.5       2.0                1.8      91.3     100.8
of which (in %):
Short-termn loans        53.0     33.5      63.3     100.0              100.0      58.2      55.2
Long-term loans          47.0     66.5      36.7       0.0                0.0      41.8      44.8
of which (in %):
Public sector loans      43.8     44.8       0.7       0.0                0.0      31.2      25.0
Private sector loans     56.2     55.2      99.3     100.0              100.0      68.8      75.0
of which (in %):
Lek loans                87.2     77.5     100.0       4.4                0.0      92.6      87.3
Foreign curmncy loans    12.9    22.5        0.0      95.6              100.0       7.4      12.7
TOTAL DEPOSITS
in Lek billion           15.65    24.04      5.07      0.98     0.40      0.37     37.35     46.51
in USS million equiv.   173.9   267.2       56.3      10.9      4.4      4.1      415.0     516.8
of which (in %):
Demrand deposits         83.7     17.0      26.7      81.1    100.0      99.9      44.8      43.2
Time/ savings deposits   16.3     83.0      73.3       18.9      0.0      0.1      55.2      56.8
of which (in %):
Public sector deposits   72.9      5.9      11.8       0.0      0.0      90.0      33.0      29.6
other                    27.1     94.1      88.2      100.0    100.0     10.0      67.0      70.4
of which (in %):
Lek deposits             50.1     82.6     100.0       6.1      7.9       0.2      68.7      70.6
Foreign curremncy deps.  49.9     17.4       0.0      93.9     92.1      99.8      31.3      29.4
Notes:  Exchange rate used is 90 Lek/USS. AAIB does not lend money due to Islamic niles prohibiting interest charges; AAIB
operates as a financial company and investor.
Source: Bank of Albania.
B. Regulatory Framework for Banks
4.      Legal Status of Banks. The "Law for the Banking System of Albania' (Law No. 7560 of April
28, 1992) sets out a two-tier banking system, with the Bank of Albania being assigned the role of the
Central Bank which is supervising banks at the second level. The law specifies, inter alia, bank licensing,
bank administration and ownership, operational requirements for banks (including reference to prudential
banking regulations), and auditing and reporting requirements.  With exception of the BAD  in
Liquidation, all state banks (RCB, NCB, and SB) and new private banks operate under the provisions of
the Banking Law.
5.      Interest Rates. Minimum interest rates for deposit operations, as well as non-enforced minimum
guideline lending rates are set by BOA, as shown in Table 2. In practice, most bank loans are still
extended at the guideline lending rates since risk-based pricing of loans is not yet applied widely. In
comparison with annual inflation, since 1994, lending rates are positive in real terms. As of July 1995,
BOA mandatory minimum deposit rates have been lowered further to reflect reduced inflationary
expectations for 1995.



- 41 -                                                Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 14
Table 2: Structure of Interest Rates (1986-1995)
(percent per annum)
1986 to   1991 to  July 1992  June 1993  Jan. 1994 Aug 1. to Sept. 1994 From July
1990     June    to May   to Dec.   to July   Sept. 12,  to July   24, 1995
1992     1993      1993      1994      1994      1995
Central bank refinancing rate
Basic rate                ...      ...       40        34         32       28        25        22
Penalty rates             ...      ...      45-50     39-44     3742      32-43     29-40     26-37
Deposit rates (individuals)
12 mnonth time deposits  ...       5-8       32        25        22         18       16.5      14.3
6 month time deposits      3       4-7       25         19        16       14.5      13.5      12.8
3 month tinne deposits    ...      3.5-5     18         14        10        9         8         11
Demand deposits          0.5-3      3         3         3         3         2         2         2
Guideline lending rates
12 month maturity loans  1-2       8-12      39        30        26        22        20        20
6 month maturity loans    1-2      8-12      32        26         22        20        17       17
3 month maturity loans    1-2      8-12      25        20         17       15        14        14
Notes:  Various penalty rates for early withdrawal of deposits apply. Interest rates on foreign currency deposits are set in line
with European rates. Minimum rates on domestic deposits are enforced within a lower band of up to 200 basis points
below the above-shown deposit mtes. Guideline lending rates are not enforced.
Source: Bank of Albania
6.      Banking Regulation. Based on the provisions of the April 1992 Banking Law, BOA has issued
all key elements of banking regulation. These include loan concentration limits, capital adequacy
requirements, as well as asset risk classification and loan loss provisioning standards in line with the Basle
Accord. However, given the very low observed loan collection rates in the country (about 50% on
average as of end-1994) BOA's loan loss provisioning requirements are clearly inadequate to generate
sufficient reserves against loan portfolio risks. In particular, BOA regulations do now allow banks to
make general loss provisions against non-overdue loans. BOA also sets bank-specific, quarterly ceilings
on new lending by the banks. The banking supervision department within BOA, established in August
1992, has made considerable progress in off-site supervision. Nevertheless, actual enforcement of
regulations and issuance of penalties to banks for non-compliance remain unsatisfactory.
7.      Bank Privatization. BOA and MOF are considering to draft specific legislation regarding the
privatization of the three State-owned banks.   Privatization  alternatives would  include: voucher
privatization through the Mass Privatization Program; privatization through partial liquidation; sale to
strategic investors within the country or abroad; or an international tender. Involvement of foreign banks
in the privatization process would be most desirable for RCB and NCB, such as to ensure experienced
bank management and strong corporate guidance, while domestic private ownership may be more
adequate for SB, given its strategic importance as the location for most individual domestic savings.
C. Rural Financial Services
8.      Credit Demand. Following the rapid dissolution of ex-cooperatives and the distribution of state
farm land, demand for agricultural credit by the new private farming sector continues to be strong and
rising. Individual farmers require access to credit in order to purchase farm inputs and mechanization
equipment. With rising demand for inputs and equipment by the farm sector, agricultural support



Annex 4.2                                                 - 42 -
Page 4 of 14
services such as traders and transport enterprises seek financial resources to be able to respond to these
new business opportunities. There is also quickly increasing loan demand by the new private agro-
industrial sector. As of mid-1995, the ASAC-funded rural credit line (US$5 million equivalent) through
RCB, administered by the Independent Lending Unit (ILU) within RCB, has been filly committed, with
US$3.48 million equivalent in sub-loans, or 70% of total available funds, disbursed to the borrowers (see
Table 3). The majority of sub-loans, which have an average size of US$100,000, finance a variety of
agro-processing investments in rural areas3. More than 80% of the approved aggregate sub-loan volume
is for rural investments in agriculture, fisheries, agro-processing and forestry. An additional pipeline for
sub-loans, representing a total lending volume of US$ 5 million equivalent, has been generated by the
ILU, in expectation of the proposed Agro-processing Development Project.
Table 3: ASAC-funded Rural Sub-loans
(as of end-July 1995)
Approved loans  |Econofic sector                   Approved loan amounts          Amounts disbursed
Number I % of total                             Lek '000 | US$ '000 I % of total    Lek '000    US$ '000
3      6%    Agricultural production          8,200         91      1.8%         3,600         40
5      10%    Livestock                      37,930        421      8.4%         19,000       211
1      2%    Fisheries                       15,000        167      3.3%           0,0          0
24      52%    Agro-processing sector        240,289      2,670      53.0%       173,551     1,928
7      14%    Forestry and wood processing   72,959        811      16.0%       46,058        512
7      14%    Services                       53,900        599      11.9%       47,510        528
3       6%    Other rurl industry            25,200       280       5.6%        23,460        261
50      100%   TOTAL                         453,478      5,039     100.0%       313,179     3,480
Note:   Exchange rate used is 90 Lek/USS.
Source: Independent Lending Unit (ILU) within RCB; World Bank staff calculations
9.      Informal Credit. The bulk of financial services in both rural and urban areas continues to be
provided by the active informal financial sector. Traders, farmers and small entrepreneurs receive credit
from relatives, neighbors, and friends. There is also an increasingly well organized group of non-licensed
financial intermediaries collecting excess liquidity from individuals and lending for short-term credits.
Over the past 2 years, effective interest rates on these informal sector loans have come down from above
400 percent p.a. during mid-1993 to about 60 percent p.a. as of mid-1995. It is likely that informal
financial intermediation will continue to play an important role in the near future until the formal banking
sector would have increased the efficiency of its operations and be able to provide services to most rural
areas of the country.
10.    Rural Banking. Due to its substantial network of rural agencies, RCB remains the predominant
bank to provide financial services in rural areas, complemented by SB regarding acceptance of household
deposits. In three regions of the country, there is no other bank than RCB. RCB fulfills important
functions as the cash window for various Government services and agencies. RCB's clientele increasingly
31      The 24 agro-processing projects approved by the ILU include: flour production (7), breweries (6), pasta and bmad
production (3), milk processing (2), meat processing (2), soft drink production (2), coffee production (1), and fruit
processing (1).



- 43 -                                         Annex 4.2
Page 5 of 14
comprises medium- and large scale enterprises in various sectors of the rural economy, including agro-
processing enterprises, trade, transport services, large farms and farmer associations, and other non-
agricultural sectors.
11.   International Donors. An important share of agricultural credit has been and will continue to be
made available by international donors. In addition to the IDA-funded ASAC credit line through RCB,
funds for agricultural lending have been made available under the Revolving Credit Account (RCA, some
ECU 2 million) of the EU-PHARE program, set up within RCB. An additional EU-funded credit line
for small- and medium scale enterprises, open to the agro-processing sector, through RCB (about US$2
million equivalent) is expected to be operational by end-1995. German-based Deutsche Ausgleichsbank
has started a credit program (DM 10 million) and a guarantee fund (DM 1.5 million) for rural borrowers
through RCB during 1995. Other credit programs potentially open to agricultural and rural investors
include the EU-PHARE/SME Foundation, a proposed EIB-funded credit line, a new KfW-backed credit
line (about DM 8 million equivalent), and the proposed Albanian-American Enterprise Fund (total initial
capital of US$30 million).
12.    Village Credit Funds. A further source of rural credit in Albania is the Village Credit Fund
system set up under the IDA-financed Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (FY93). As of end-June
1995, a total of 74 village-based credit committees have been established, performing decentralized loan
evaluations, making decisions on credit allocation and loan conditions, and supervising repayments. A
total of US$ 1.3 million has been on-lent for 3,417 loans, averaging US$375 per loan, with a 100 percent
repayment record in all but one village where credit activities have ceased. Up to an additional US$5
million is planned for on-lending under the Rural Development Project (FY95) which became effective
in May 1995. And under an IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project, which
started up in early 1995, about US$ 4 million is available to extend the village credit fund system to four
northeastern districts. Village Credit Funds are able to grant small loans of up to US$1,000 equivalent
to farmers and other rural entrepreneurs which would be largely unattractive customers for commercially
operating banks. During the next three years, savings will be gradually introduced into the system, and
the framework for a sustainable cooperative banking institution will be developed.
1I. Rural Commercial Bank
A. Emergence of RCB in 1993
13.   RCB as a New Financial Institution. RCB emerged as a new bank only in October of 1993, after
BAD's unrecoverable loans to state enterprises and related liabilities had been isolated such as to create
a bank serving the needs of private agriculture and the rural sector on commercial banking principles.
A comprehensive program of institutional strengthening in key areas has been initiated upon creation of
the bank, and significant progress has been made in the accounting and credit areas since the fall of 1993.
Nevertheless, serious management and corporate governance issues prevail, as described further below,
preventing the bank from fully developing its capacity to serve its new private-sector clientele.
14.    Unrecoverable BAD Loans. The former BAD was the main source of credit to state enterprises
in the agricultural sector. Since practically all state farms and former agricultural cooperatives have been
dissolved since the 1991 democratic revolution, BAD had, therefore, lost its main clientele and debtors.
Within the policy framework under ASAC, Government decided to liquidate BAD and to create the new
RCB as a viable commercial bank as of October 1, 1993. Liquidation of BAD involved the write-off of:



Annex 4.2                                         - 44 -
Page 6 of 14
(i) unrecoverable loans to state enterprises as of June 30, 1992, equal to Lek 2.85 billion. In accordance
with Decision No. 1033, dated April 8, 1993, of the Council of Ministers, Government decided to relieve
BAD from these bad debts; (ii) unrecoverable loans to state farms made by BAD since July 1, 1992, net
of collections. The principle amount is equal to about Lek 0.5 billion. Revenues from the sale of state
farm assets by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food were expected to cover these outstanding debts.
However, as of mid-1995, no principal repayments nor accrued interest payments had been made by the
State; (iii) outstanding housing loans of Lek 117 million, made by BAD, which Government decided to
repay on behalf of borrowers through proceeds from privatizing state-owned apartments and real estate.
On the liabilities side, as of October 1, 1993, the BAD in Liquidation inherited Lek 315 million in state
enterprise deposits, and Lek 2.98 billion in loans from NCB which had passed on funds from the Central
Bank to BAD for the purpose of lending to state enterprises in the agriculture sector.
15.   RCB License and Charter. RCB has received a license from BOA on September 23, 1993. The
license requires RCB to continue to collect outstanding BAD loans and to complete the liquidation of
BAD. RCB's license also sets out a minimum capital requirement for RCB of Lek 800 million, to be
reached by end-1996. RCB's Charter defines the bank's mission as a commercial bank operating on
sound banking principles, serving the needs of private sector customers in agriculture and in other rural
activities. Upon creation of RCB, Government recognized that the financial safety and soundness of the
new bank hinges upon the bank's autonomy in day-to-day decisions; therefore, the new Charter explicitly
sets out that if Government wishes the bank to extend credit to borrowers the bank does not consider
creditworthy, the bank can only provide credit as an agent for Government which would provide required
financial resources, assume the full credit risk, and reimburse the bank for administrative expenses.
B. Institutional Analysis
16.    Organizational Structure. RCB's network includes the Tirana head office which is currently
undergoing major repair works, branches in 33 out of 36 districts, and 130 small agencies which are
linked to district branches, making RCB the only genuinely national banking network in Albania. Total
bank staff increased from 400 as of end-1992 to 700 as of end-1994. RCB has a small management team
of 67 employees in the Tirana head office. District branches employ an average of 12 employees, with
up to 4 employees per agency. Head office staff include the General Manager and CEO, the Vice
General Manager, 25 analysts and supervisors in the credit supervision and credit review departments,
15 employees in the financial management and accounting departments, and 10 officers in the areas of
human resources, legal affairs, public relations and general services. The bank's Board of Supervisors
includes four representative of the MOF, one MAF representative, one private sector representative, and
the bank's CEO. The organizational chart of RCB's head office is attached (Appendix 1).
17.   IDA Support in Institutional Development. From February to August of 1993, the former BAD
received initial technical assistance in the areas of financial management, credit operations, and
accounting and MIS. The main objective of this early assistance was, within the policy framework of
ASAC, to prepare the liquidation of BAD and ensure the subsequent creation of RCB as of October 1,
1993. During the following first TA Phase under ASAC (total of 36 person/months, US$0.7 million),
expatriate experts assisted RCB between October 1993 and March 1994 in the areas of financial
management, credit supervision and review, accounting and MIS, human resources development, and
international banking. The main focus of this phase was on the provision of policy advise in these key
areas, with initial staff training in the credit and accounting fields. During the second TA Phase under
ASAC (total of 84 person/months, US$1.5 million, June 1994 - September 1995), foreign experts assisted
in: (i) finalization and implementation of the new accounting and financial reporting system in the head
office and branches; (ii) implementation of the new Credit Manual and credit supervision and review



- 45 -                                              Annex 4.2
Page 7 of 14
guidelines at the branch and agency level; (iii) implementation of recommendations to start up
international banking operations; and (iv) operations of the ILU. ASAC funding also provided for RCB
staff training and the purchase of office equipment, furniture and vehicles.
18.    Management and Staff Qualification.  As a result of its isolation during the communist rule,
Albania lacks any western or other banking traditions in the country's financial sector. Unlike in most
developing economies, bankers in Albania had practically no exposure to banking practices developed
elsewhere. This complete lack of knowledge transfer is responsible for the current shortage of qualified
staff and management in local banks. Concerning RCB, some staff at the branch level are fairly well
experienced with respect to the technical issues of agricultural production. However, there is a lack of
knowledge of appraising projects on financial and commercial grounds. Initial training for key branch
staff in the credit and accounting area under the above-mentioned first TA Phase of the institutional
development program under ASAC has started to improve this skill base. Further intensified training at
the branch and local level is, however, required.
19.    Lending Operations.  As of end-1994, RCB's credit customer base includes about 12,000
individuals and enterprises. Some 99.3% of RCB's credit customers are within the private sector. The
number of loan accounts, which initially increased dramatically to about 20,000 as of end-1993, fell to
about 15,000 as of mid-1995 following substantial loan consolidations and rescheduling. Loans average
about US$500 equivalent for individual farmers and some US$10,000 for agro-processing enterprises and
other corporate borrowers. The bank extends short-term and medium-term loans with maturities usually
not exceeding five years4. Loans with longer maturities would involve liquidity-related risks given the
lack of long-term deposits. RCB requires the provision of loan collateral such as buildings, machinery
and equipment, livestock, working capital, and personal guarantees. Due to the slow build-up of land
registration and titling services in the country, many farmers have no access to credit since informal
mortgages on land are not yet widely accepted.5 Loan evaluation and appraisal is performed based on
the new Credit Manual which has been substantially revised and updated with assistance from expatriate
experts. Individual crop and farm budgets and cash-flow projections are now developed for each loan.
20.    Credit Supervision and Review.  With assistance from  expatriate experts, six regional credit
supervision divisions have been established at headquarters which review large loans for subsequent
approval by RCB's Board of Directors. Smaller loans are approved by managers at the branch level, with
no loan approval authority given to individual agencies. In view of rising loan delinquencies, both a
branch-based and a credit-offer based loan approval authorization system has been introduced in 1994,
effectively taking away any loan approval authority from credit officers and branches with low loan
quality and a substandard collection performance record.  Formal authorization limits have been
established in the 1995 Business Plan. Further progress is required to segregate the responsibilities and
internal controls for loan evaluation and approval, loan administration and perfection of security, and loan
disbursement and monitoring6. By the end of 1993, the credit review department has been fully
4/      As of end-April 1995, 63.3% of RCB's outstanding loans were short-tenn loans of up to one year duration. For loom
above one year of maturity, the structure was as follows: up to 2 years (47%), 2-5 years (49%), above 5 years (4%).
5/     New legislation is underway to improve banks' ability to enforce bankruptcy of delinquent borrowers and gain access to
liquidated assets. Legislation for land sales has been passed by Parliament in July 1995, hence improving the value of
land as collateral for bank loans.
6/     Detailed recommendations regarding RCB's credit processing have been made in the September 1994 loan portfolio audit
carried out by Coopers & Lybrand.



Annex 4.2                                        - 46 -
Page 8 of 14
established and been separated from the credit supervision function, thus providing for an independent
assessment of loan portfolio quality at the branch level. Six regional credit review teams now perform
internal loan audits at the branch level; loan audits are coordinated with general internal audits performed
by RCB's internal auditors.
21.   Accounting. RCB's accounting system is based on local accounting principles and has been
revised in 1994 to take into account reporting requirements by BOA. A revised RCB accounting
procedures manual, providing for accrual-based loan accounting, has been introduced in the fall of 1993
through assistance from expatriate experts to RCB. The transformation into International Accounting
Standards for Banking Institutions (IAS 24) is at present made manually. Technical assistance is provided
to automate and standardize this conversion process. Further technical assistance addresses issues of
interbank and intra-branch payment transactions. The overall service standard and speed in processing
payments by all three state-owned banks in the country remain at a very low level, since most payments
are still cash-based and require courier services between bank headquarters. Plans by BOA to introduce
payment clearing systems, based on wire transfers and checks, do exist but remain to be implemented.
22.   Financial Management and Performance Measurement. An Assets and Liabilities Committee has
been established in late 1993 through assistance from expatriate experts. As a first task, the committee
has developed a framework to set performance-based regional lending limits for branches based on loan
collection ratios and satisfactory delinquent loans follow-up procedures. In this respect, branches have
been classified into three performance-based classes. In light of the rise in delinquent loans, RCB
management has halted incremental lending by poorly performing branches as of January 1994, with new
loans requiring prior repayment of previous loans. The new framework of performance-based lending,
in operation since mid-1994, allows for incremental lending by branches within limits determined by the
demonstrated loan collection performance of each branch.
23.   Internal and External Audit. An internal auditor and two audit staff, reporting directly to the
bank's Board of Supervisors, have been appointed in November of 1993. Internal audits have since been
performed of most branches, with the objective to perform at least one audit per branch and year. Six
regional auditors, based in branches, have also been appointed. RCB's end-1993 financial statements
have been audited by Price Waterhouse under ASAC funding. This audit did not include a detailed
review of the bank's loan portfolio, given that the bank had only been established in October 1993.
Hence, a separate portfolio review was carried out by Coopers & Lybrand as of end-September 1994,
also funded under ASAC. Procurement of services for the external audit of the bank's end-1994 financial
statements, to be carried out in line with international accounting standards and financed under ASAC,
has been initiated in early 1995.
C. Financial Analysis
24.   Data Quality. The accounting system of RCB and the other two state-owned banks is largely
based on an accounting plan developed under the former centrally-planned financial regime. With the
assistance of outside experts, RCB made adjustments to introduce accrual-based loan accounting and to
convert accounting information in accordance with IAS. A new chart of accounts for banks is currently
being developed by BOA, its introduction is planned for late 1995. Despite these short-comings, in-depth
assessments of the financial position and income situation of RCB have been undertaken by external
auditors based on the bank's end-1993 financial statements; RCB's end-September 1994 loan portfolio;
and the bank's end-March 1995 financial statements. For the purpose of the further analysis, the latter



- 47 -                                             Annex 4.2
Page 9 of 14
financials as of end-March 1995 will be used, taking into account substantial adjustments made to reflect
all perceived risks relating to potential loan losses (see Table 4).
25.    Structural Profitability Gap.  RCB's main and only interest-earning assets a.e its loans to
customers. As of end-March 1995, RCB showed some Lek 3 billion of financial items and fixed assets
which are non-interest earning, representing 62% of net adjusted total assets of Lek 4.9 billion (about
US$55 million)7. On the liabilities side, the bank's end-March 1995 deposit base of Lek 4.88 billion is
characterized by a very high proportion of retail term deposits of 12 months maturity, bearing a high
interest cost'. This implies that the bank, at its present financial structure, cannot have a positive net
interest income, before operating expenses, however well managed it is under the prevailing interest rate
regime. Estimates regarding the structural profitability gap indicated a short-fall of interest income in
relation to interest expense of about Lek 180 million (about US$2 million) in 1995 on an annualized basis
before operating expenses. Income projections for 1996 would show a worsening in the short-fall on net
interest income in successive years on the basis of both the bank's own provision levels and the increased
level of provisions applied by outside experts. This analysis suggests that the bank, as currently
structured, has no future as a going concern and requires financial restructuring in the context of
privatization, as addressed further below.
26.    Loan Portfolio and Loss Provisions. RCB's total outstanding gross loans, as of end-March 1995,
equal some Lek 3.9 billion (US$43 million). About 35% of loans are medium- and long-term loans
above one year maturity, up from 25% as of end-1993. In addition, RCB has claims on customers
relating to accrued loan interest of Lek 1.2 billion (US$13 million). Virtually all loans are allocated to
the private sector.
27.    In compliance with BOA asset classification requirements and applicable domestic loan loss
provisioning standards, RCB has made loss provisions of Lek 819 million against loan principal and Lek
479 against accrued interest, resulting in a rather impressive level of risk provisions of Lek 1.3 billion
(US$ 14 million) or 26% of total gross claims on its loan customers. Nevertheless, in order to adequately
cover the bank against risks on the basis of actually observed loan collection rates (see below), it is
estimated that an additional amount of provisions of Lek 1.2 billion against principal and Lek 400 million
against accrued interest would be required as of end-March 1995. This would bring total required loss
provisions against principal to Lek 2 billion and provisions on accrued interest to Lek 880 million.
Hence, net claims on customers would be reduced to a mere Lek 1.9 billion in principal and Lek 280
million in accrued interest, with a resulting negative impact on the bank's equity and net worth (see
below). While the increased loss provisioning levels may be overly conservative, effectively assuming
no further improvement in the bank's loan collection rates over time, they offer a worst-case scenario
with regard to the bank's financial condition, and hence a useful basis from which to restructure the
bank's assets.
7/     Non-interest eamning financial assets include Lek 1.044 billion of reserve and sight deposits with BOA, the Lek 566
million loan to BAD (reduced by Lek 32 miUion in loss provisions), a Lek 227 loan to NCB, accrued interest on loans
of Lek 280 million (gross value of Lek 1.159 bilon, reduced by provisions of Lek 879 milion), and cash of Lek 163
million.
8/     More than 75 % of the deposit base comprises medium- and long-term retail deposits which are typically rolled over on
maturity. Due to the lack of basic money transfer systems in the country, RCB's retail clients do not use RCB for retail
banking services so much as a savings bank, which imposes a relatively high cost of funds on the bank.



Annex 4.2                                                  - 48 -
Page 10 of 14
Table 4: Balance Sheets of RCB
(million Lek; not in line with IAS)
end-1993         end-1994         end-19951   adjusted as of
(projected)l    March 1995
ASSETS
CASH                                                    97              122              124.             163
Domestic currency                                   54               93               94-             136
Convertible currency                                43               29               30.              2
DUE FROM BANKS                                         839            1,097              760.           1,886
Foreign Banks                                        0               10              100)             113
Bank of Albania (depos. & reserves)                366              520              650-            1,044
BAD claim (govt. guaranteed)                       473              522                0.             534
less: Provisions on BAD claim                        0                0                0              (32)
Other domestic banks                                 0               45               10-             22
NET LOANS                                            2,315            3,054            4,630-.          1,858
Long-term unsecured loans                            0               23               30-              25
Short4erm loans                                   1,816            2,374            4,009           2,530
Long-term loans                                    632             1,343            1,161-          1,354
less: Provisions against principal                (133)            (686)            (570)            (819)
less: Additional adjusted provisions                 0                0                0           (1,232)
ACCRUED INTEREST                                       500              631               5              280
Accrued interest                                   538              971              295.           1,159
less: Provisions against accr. interest            (38)            (340)            290)-            (479)
less: Additional adjusted provisions                 0                0                0           (400)
FIXED ASSETS                                            27               99              118              600
Fixed assets                                        27               99              118.             104
plus: Revaluation of rixed assets                    0                0                0              496
OTHER ASSETS                                            94              119              216.             136
TOTAL ASSETS                                         3,872            5,122            5,853:           4,923
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
DEPOSITS                                             2,866            4,555            4,790.           4,881
Demand Deposits                                   1,328            1,510            1,432.            977
of which: State Enterprises                   538              377               280-            351
Time Deposits                                     1,481            2,979            3,240-           3,80
Foreign Curmrncy Deposits                           57               66              118i              9
of which: for Letters of Credit                  0              50               100               78
DUE TO BANKS                                         1,262              100                0.             100
Bank of Albania                                      0                0                0                0
Other Domestic Banks                              1,262             100                0-             100
OTHER LIABILMES                                     (1,079)              43              275.             844
CAPITAL                                                823              424              788.            (902)
Paid-up Capital                                    450              497              424.             497
Additional Capital                                 207              231                0              25
Reserves                                           272              119                0.             119
Pr-ofit/ Lose                                     (106)            (423)             364.            (568)
less: Adjused loan loss provisions                   0                                .          (1,703)
plus: Revaluation of fixed assets                                                                  496
TOTAL LIABILmES AND CAPITAL                          3,872            S,122            5,853-           4,923
Note:   RCB's March-1995 adjust  fuancials reflect loan loss provisions in line with observed loan colection rates, and a
rcvaluation for RCB's fixed assets. These provisions are higher than allowed for by current local banking regulations.
Source: RCB; Capital Markets Partners.



- 49 -                                        Annex 4.2
Page 11 of 14
28.   Loan Collection Performance. Rather than analyzing the structure and ageing of arrears, in the
case of RCB it has proven to be more useful to focus on loan collection rates, given the rather rapid rise
in the bank's loan arrears since its creation in October of 1993. Quarterly loan collection rates allow to
forecast developments in portfolio arrears before an actual rise or fall in arrears is recorded. After
substantial technical assistance by external experts, since early 1994 RCB has installed an information
system providing detailed loan collection data for each of its 33 branches. Collection data reported by
branches are verified through corresponding accounting system entries of loan repayments received.
29.   The most striking feature in loan collections is the very wide disparity of loan collection
performance between branches: from as high as 90% to zero collection rate. The worst performing
branches have shown little or no improvement over the previous year and their non-performance has the
effect of depressing significantly the weighted average improvement in the loan collection performance
of the bank as a whole. RCB has acted aggressively on this issue by replacing branch managers and
prohibiting new lending by the worst performing branches. The main reasons for the large performance
variance between branches appears to be the geographical location of branches, with many poorly
performing branches situated in areas of low income and slow economic activity. Serious management
deficiencies at the branch level are another factor.
30.   Due to the high amount of attention and efforts during 1994 placed by RCB's management on
improving loan collections, the weighted collection performance in the first quarter of 1995 shows a very
significant improvement over the same period in 1994, reflecting a shift to loans issued on a more
commercial basis in the third and fourth quarter of 1994. The bank's overall weighted average
collections on current loans for the first quarter of 1995 equal 59%, and monthly collections for the
month of March 1995 were 65%. During 1994, the average payment collection rate for the year was
about 8% above the rate observed for the first quarter of the year. Assuming a similar improvement for
1995, it is estimated that between 12 and 15 of RCB's 33 branches would be profitable on lending before
deducting branch operating costs, most of which will be covered by non-fee income. This would suggest
that most of the remaining some 20 branches would require further substantial restructuring, or else
should probably act as non-lending agencies or closed down.
31.   Non-recoverable Loans and Loan Rescheduling.  A primary reason for the overall highly
unsatisfactory collection performance and arrears situation at RCB are some Lek 1.4 billion in truck and
tractor loans extended by BAD and RCB between mid-1993 and spring 1994. Based on political
motivations, the bank was asked by the authorities to approve these investment loans with a one-year
maturity, resulting in the delinquency of practically all loans extended. In addition, most farmers who
obtained such loans were in general disbelief that these loans represented actual repayable obligations,
given that agricultural lending in the past was guaranteed by the State. RCB has embarked on a
rescheduling initiative for these loans, expected to cover about 70% of the cases, with the remainder
going to legal enforcement of the overdue amount. Further loan rescheduling is envisaged for short-term
trading loans. The combined effect of these initiatives is estimated by RCB management at up to Lek
2 billion in reductions on loan loss provisions, while more conservative estimates by outside experts
suggest a net benefit in the order of Lek 500 million.
32.    Collection of ASAC Sub-loans. The situation is more encouraging regarding collections on sub-
loans financed under ASAC and approved by the ILU within RCB. A first internal credit audit on 21
sub-loans extended since mid-1994 reveals general on-time repayment of interest due during the one-year
grace period on ASAC investment loans. However, due to issues on three sub-loans where project start-
up was delayed, initial average weighted collection rates on ASAC sub-loans reach only 87% as of end-



Annex 4.2                                        - 50 -
Page 12 of 14
August 1995. It is expected that collection rates on ASAC sub-loans will reach or exceed 90% by the
fall of 1995.
33.    OtherAssets. RCB's balance sheet as of end-1994 shows fixed assets valued at Lek 100 million.
Based on conservative market estimates, taking into account the urban location of RCB's branch offices,
a more realistic market value for the bank's real estate may be around Lek 600 million (US$6.7 million).
34.   Deposits and Due to Banks. The bank's outstanding liabilities as end-March 1995 include Lek
3.2 billion in time deposits which generally represent private household savings, and an additional Lek
1.4 billion in demand deposits of which Lek 280 million stem from state enterprises. Except for a small
credit of Lek 100 million from the SB, the bank has no other liabilities with domestic or foreign banks.
35.    Capital Adequacy. According to the BOA license, RCB's initial paid-in capital (held by MOF)
equals Lek 450 million, which is to be increased to Lek 800 million by end-1996. As of end-1994, and
in compliance with legal and regulatory provisions in Albania, the bank publishes total capital of Lek 424
million, or 8.3% of total assets at that time. Projections for end-1995 foresee a total capital to total assets
ratio of 13.5%. However, after estimated required adjustments for additional loan-related risks, and a
slightly off-setting revaluation of RCB's fixed assets, the bank's capital - under a worst-case scenario -
is estimated to be negative, with net assets falling short of liabilities by about Lek 900 million (some
US$10 million) as of end-March 1995. While collection rates on the bank's loans are likely to improve
further, thus reducing rates of risk provisions on both overdue and current loans, it is probably unrealistic
to expect the bank to generate sufficient loss provisions and return to positive capital unless it is
financially restructured.
36.   Liquidity.  The bank's ability to collect new household deposits has prevented it from
experiencing liquidity-related bottlenecks, despite its structural cash-flow gap. As soon as deposit growth
would slow down, and without any substantial progress in collecting and enforcing loan collateral on non-
performing loans, the bank might begin facing liquidity problems.
D. Outlook
37.   Need for Restructuring. After a period of rather successful initial institutional restructuring of
the bank, facilitated by outside technical assistance, RCB is now in need of financial restructuring,
combined with privatization, if the bank is to become a viable rural financial institution. The bank's
cash-flow gap can only be overcome through a replacement of non-interest bearing assets through
productive and secure assets. Furthermore, substantial improvements in the bank's internal work
organization, credit operations, accounting and financial management, and general efficiency and service
quality are unlikely to occur unless strong governance through a private, qualified banking institution can
be established.
38.   Financial Restructuring. Regarding financial restructuring, there are two main options to reduce
required loan loss provisions and improve the bank's interest income and cash-flow, both of which imply
a recapitalization of RCB through cash or interest-bearing bonds, the main source of which would likely
be the public budget. A first option would be to relieve the bank of the loan portfolio of its 10 worst
performing branches. This would reduce required loss provisions by about Lek 1.2 billion (including Lek
800 million in principal and Lek 400 million against interest); and it would reduce (eliminate) the cash-
flow deficit by about Lek 200 million per year, resulting in positive net interest revenues. A second
option would be to relieve the bank from most or all of its pre-October 1993 loans, most of which



- 51 -                                        Annex 4.2
Page 13 of 14
represent unrecoverable truck and tractor loans described above. The related benefit would be a reduction
of loss provisions by about Lek 1.5 billion and an improvement in cash-flow by Lek 270 per year. Either
solution would result in positive capital and positive annual cash-flows, making the bank viable based on
the observed improvements in loan collections and assuming a complete halt of new lending in all but the
best performing 10 branches. The estimated net cost to the budget, through issuance of bonds and/or
provision of cash, would be in the order of Lek I billion to Lek 1.5 billion (US$1l to 17 million).
39.   In addition to recapitalization, the Government has further ways to improve RCB's financial
situation. First, the BAD-related loan by RCB, guaranteed by the Government, could be made current
through payment by MOF of accrued interested estimated at about Lek 600 million, and possibly
repayment of the principal of Lek 566 million. Both actions together, and by themselves, would likely
result in the restoration of positive capital. Furthermore, Government could adequately remunerate RCB
for its services as an agent that is making pension and other public payments to residents in rural areas.
Alternatively, if Government decided to terminate RCB's agent function, the bank could close most of
those agencies that are not net contributors to RCB's bottom line.
40.    Privatization. However, financial restructuring alone, without parallel privatization, would bear
the risk of continued unsatisfactory governance and possible future losses due to politically motivated
lending. Also, as a public institution, the bank could not expect to obtain further substantial amounts of
government-funded technical assistance, hence reducing substantially prospects for further improvements
in operational efficiency.  Government and BOA are, therefore, supporting the notion of bank
privatization which, in the case of RCB, would require a strong, committed and reputable private banking
institution as an investor, able to provide qualified management and technical expertise from its own
resources. Since no such institution can be identified within the country today, a foreign strategic
investor in the banking industry would be the most desirable new owner of a privatized RCB. Various
methods of bank privatization for the state-owned banks are in the discussion, and it is expected that a
decision on the method and timing of RCB privatization would be made before the end of 1995.
41.   ILU Operations. Since its establishment in early 1994, the operations of the ILU regarding on-
lending of ASAC funds to rural borrowers are judged to be working rather well, especially when
compared to other banking institutions and donor credit windows in the country. The ILU has largely
fulfilled its objective of becoming a model for an efficient rural banking window within RCB, and ILU's
credit evaluation standards and operational procedures became the basis for revising RCB's Credit Manual
and the bank's overall credit management. If RCB was to be privatized, the ILU could remain a part of
the bank. Alternatively, if RCB was to be downsized and possibly merged with another bank, the ILU
could be transferred to this new bank as well.



Annex 4.2                                                                           - 52 -
Page 14 of 14
Appendix I
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Structure of the Rural Commercial Bank
Board
of
Supervisors
Audit
Committee
Chief
Execufive
Officer
Board
of
Directors
Vice                 Internal                 Loan                               Vi
CEO                    Audit                 Review                              CEO
Directorate
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                               - -   - -   - - -   - .. . . .. . .. - - -   - - - -..]
Human Resources &            Credit               Irternational        Public Reltaoiw          Treasury and             Financial                 MIS
Ser. Admrn Department       Deparlmert               Banking               Directorate         Risk Managemert            Panring                Deparbnert
Directorate                                   Depurbnert              Directate
BdDls  Credit         Let        IUAA            edng
Directorate  {Directorate    Advisor        Unit      from Special
Funds Un



- 53 -                                        Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 7
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENTREPRENEURS SUPPORT PROGRAM
1.    Most Albanians have an excellent educational background and there are many well trained
technicians. However, over 50 years of a strict command economy has left significant skill gaps in the
training program, particularly for managerial, economic, marketing and financial skills. The project
would thus aim to fully utilize technical skills available in Albania and would strengthen them with
outside expertise where necessary.
2.    The project would focus on providing direct assistance to entrepreneurs and their associations and
strengthening selected local institutions for the provision of such services in the future locally. For that
purpose a Technical Services Unit (TSU), with the support of an experienced foreign firm with Albanian
counterparts has been established under the direct supervision of MAF's Agro-Processing Department and
a Project Coordination Committee (this Committee was established in July 1993). The TSU would be
supported through the provision of office equipment and vehicles, up to 40-45 person months of technical
support and training, and up to 150 person months of Albanian expertise. In the long run (at the end of
project period) the TSU is expected to be converted into a private consultive body or a Foundation
supported by the industry. In summary, the project would provide funds for the following:
*     the establishment of TSU with Albanian experts (4-6) as well as one long term foreign expert for
about 2 years, (with experience in dairy processing including marketing, and milk collection and
organization of PFAs-- with project management experience), and a number of short-term experts
in various fields as needed (Apwendix 3);
*     assistance to private agro-processing entrepreneurs, farmers and their associations in preparing
bankable proposals including feasibility studies and financial/technical plans to obtain bank
financing;
D     training of industry personnel in collection, processing, quality control, and management,
marketing and other business aspects as well as in the organization and operation of PFAs. Some
of this training would be offered overseas while capacity would be built within Albanian
institutions to provide such training locally;
*     limited assistance to the food quality control laboratories and technical institutional (such as IKU,
IVR, and IPBU) and private associations (e.g., ADA) in upgrading their equipment facilities and
skills-- to improve their capabilities to provide technical services and training to the industry
including feasibility studies, technical advice, quality control, and development of a diploma
program;
*     study tours for the selected officials and private entrepreneurs to observe collection, processing
and distribution systems and organization of PFAs.
*     assistance to farmers in organizing PFA's and in improving their management and operations;
*     assistance to the MAF in the formulation of a strategy for the promotion of PFAs; and
*     assistance to the ILU (RCB) in sub-project appraisal and supervision.



Annex 5.1                                        - 54 -
Page 2 of 7
Appendix I
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPORT TO TECHNICAL INSTITUTIONS
1.    In accordance with the 1995 Food Law passed by the Albanian Parliament in May 1995, the Food
Research Institute (IKU) and the Institute of Veterinary Research (IVR) have been designated as the
Centers of Reference for the quality control of non-animal and animal origin foods, respectively. These
institutes would need to improve their capabilities (such as equipment, staff skills and procedures) in
order to carry out this mandate. The Food Research Institute and the Agriculture and Food Design
Institute have begun to refocus their activities towards providing assistance to the industry, in particular
training, product development, testing, quality enhancement, monitoring and analysis as well as granting
certificates for registration of food manufacturing enterprises. Under the proposed project, limited
assistance would be provided to the IKU, IVR and selected District Quality Control Laboratories. Their
staff skills and laboratory facilities would be strengthened on task specific scale by adding testing and skill
updating equipment and staff training. Assistance would also be provided to the IKU in developing
curricula for workshops, seminars and short term courses and advisory services. In addition, the IPBU
would be assisted in updating its skills, information database and computerized output of blueprints,
reports, feasibility studies. Assistance to the Albanian Dairy Association would be small focussing on
initial support (office equipment, vehicle and training) in first two years before it is able gain credibility
and earn its own income.
2.     Short term consultants for a few months would be engaged on various subjects (such as quality
control, training, provision of technical services, etc.) to help these institutions.  Some of these
consultants are expected to be obtained through other donor-assisted programs such as VOCA and trust
funds. Twinning arrangements with suitable Dutch organizations would be encouraged. Some of the
faculty members may be sent abroad for a study tour to the institutions running similar type of programs
to appreciate the nature and the extent of training required. Further details of support are given below:
(i)    Food Research Institute
External consultant - 2 man months               US$20,000
Staff training and study tours                   US$20,000
Laboratory equipment and supplies               US$200,000
(ii)   Institute of Veterinary Research
External consultant - 1-2 man months             US$20,000
Staff training and study tours                   US$20,000
Laboratory equipment and supplies               US$200,000
(iii)   District Food Quality Control Laboratories
Staff training                                    US$5,000
Laboratory equipment and supplies               US$250,000
(iv)   Agriculture and Food Design Institute
Equipment-- computers, blueprint making facilities and project report
printing, binding equipments reprographic facilities, vehicle, etc -- US$90,000
Staff training and study tours                   US$10,000
(v)    Albanian Dairy Association
Office equipment, vehicle, etc.                  US$25,000
Staff training and study tours                    US$5,000



- 55 -                                      Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 7
Appendix 2
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENTREPRENEURS SUPPORT COMPONENT COSTS
I.   Technical Support
Technical Services Unit
External: 40-45 person months including subsistence and travel   600,000
Local:   As needed                                          70,000
Independent Lending Unit
External : 12 person months including travel and subsistence  150.
Subtotal                                         820,000
II.  Training and Study Tours
(Local & External)
TSU/MAFIRCB staff                       ]
Service/Quality Control Institutes' staff  ]               150,000
Entrepreneurs & Associations            ]
Subtotal                                         150,000
III. Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles and Office Equipment                              100,000
Quality Control Equipment & Supplies                       550,000
Service Institutions' Equipment & Supplies                 120,000
Others                                                      60.000
Subtotal                                         830,000
IV. Operating Costs, Taxes and Duties                            90,000
V.  Contingencies (with priority for quality control activities)  210.000
GRAND TOTAL                                     2.100.000



Annex 5.1                                        - 56 -
Page 4 of 7
Appendix 3
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TSU INTERNATIONAL FIRM
TERMS-oF-REFERENCE
1.    The Government of Albania is seeking assistance from the World Bank to finance an Agro-
processing Development Project to support the development of agro-processing enterprises in the private
sector. One of the principal activities of the project would be to assist re-establishment of operational
capacity within the complex of existing, newly privatized large and small agro-processing plants.
2.    In order to support the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) in implementing the project, a
Technical Services Unit (TSU) would be established with the support of a foreign firm with Albanian
counterparts. The TSU would be responsible to the Director, Agro-processing Department (APD) of the
MAF. The TSU would have independence in implementing its agreed work program. Major focus of
TSU's work would be on the dairy industry. But it would also provide support to the agro-processing
sector as well as to the food quality control system in Albania. The foreign firm must have extensive
expertise in dairy industry management including preparation of business plans for bankable projects,
organizing milk collection, establishing private farmers associations (PFAs), product processing, plant
rehabilitation, quality control, marketing and management under conditions applicable to Albania (i.e.,
small farm holdings and small processing plants).
3.    Foreign support would include the provision of local and foreign project management and expert
support for implementing programs of private agro-processing/dairy industry investments, industry
training and quality control. This would include about 40-50 person months of high quality international
assistance (both long-term and short term) and up to 150 person months of Albanian technical support.
The long term support would be one foreign expert with experience in dairy industry for a period of two
years. The short term technical support would be provided as and when required during project
implementation period in the likely areas of food products quality control, business management, market
development, environment, agro-processing, training, etc. One of the major tasks of the international
firm would be to assist in building local capacity in Albanian institutions for the provision of similar
services to the industry.
4.     Long Term Foreign Expert. He must have extensive experience in various aspects of the dairy
industry (such as processing, project management, quality control and marketing). Additional experience
in agro-processing, milk collection and organization of PFAs would be highly desirable. This expert
would be fully responsible for all activities of the TSU. He would manage the TSU, but a majority of
his time is expected to be spent in providing direct assistance to entrepreneurs and institutions. He would
be responsible for determining, subject to World Bank review, the needs and Terms-of-Reference (and
arranging their availability) of various short term experts in consultation and agreement with the Director,
APD. He would also be responsible for the recruitment, subject to World Bank review, of 4-6
counterpart Albanian staff who would, over time, assume increasing responsibility for implementing the
project. The Albanian staff could be either individuals or an appropriate Albanian technical organization
engaged in the support of agro-industry in Albania.



- 57 -                                        Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 7
5.     The specific responsibilities of the TSU would include:
A. Project Management, Training and Institution Building
*     plan and coordinate the implementation of project activities taking due cognisance of the
need for flexibility and creativity in their implementation;
*      train Albanian counterparts in all aspects of project implementation to enable them to take
over responsibilities from the external experts, and assist Albanian institutions in the
development of consumer campaigns on food hygiene and handling;
*      provide training to entrepreneurs in agro-processing, milk collection, quality control,
marketing and distribution including conducting promotional workshops;
*      collaborate with farmer groups and assist, with donor financed projects, in establishing
(and operation) of private farmers associations, to explore and capitalise on opportunities
for supporting community owned and operated milk collection and, where appropriate,
processing plants. This would include actual establishment of a few model PFAs;
*      develop an investment support function to advice potential private agro-processing
industry entrepreneurs and managers on the appropriate means of achieving their
objectives including preparation of bankable investment projects;
-      prepare project profiles for typical agro-processing/dairy sector sub-projects for
entrepreneurs;
-      advise the Rural Commercial Bank on technical aspects of agro-processing sub-projects;
-      implement a Training of Trainers program in the fields of plant management, product
processing, food hygiene and quality control, business management and marketing, and
coordinate the implementation of food industry training courses in these areas;
e      assist the Food Research Institute (IKU) to strengthen its capacity to collaborate with the
agro-industry in product development, quality assurance, training and problem solving,
developing curricula for a Dairy/Food Industry Diploma program, and enhancing its cost
recovery capacity;
*      assist the Agricultural and Food Design Institute (IPBU) to strengthen its capacity to
provide technical services to the agro-industry;
*      assist private trade associations, e.g., Albanian Dairy Association (ADA), in establishing
themselves as effective organizations to provide appropriate services to their members;
*      assist the technical institutions (both in Tirana and in the Districts) which are engaged in
the food quality control enforcement aspects, in the upgrading of their staff skills,
procedures and laboratory facilities using modern tools and training programs;
*      advise the government and entrepreneurs in establishing appropriate environmental
standards for food plant waste discharges and in their implementation;



Annex 5.1                                           - 58 -
Page 6 of 7
*      advise the government on the formulation of strategy (and action plan) for the promotion
of private farmers associations including an appropriate enabling environment (e.g., legal
framework, promotion, training, etc.);
*      maintain a close liaison with all sectors of the agro/dairy production, processing and
retail trades, and with international donors active in the support of Albanian food sector;
B. Direct Assistance to Entrepreneurs
*      preparing business plans for sub-projects for obtaining credit from the banking system;
*      estimating rehabilitation and operating costs, to evaluate the market and subsequently, to
prepare a simple and realistic feasibility study including rate of return and cash flows;
*      determining what civil works require repair or modification in the existing plants
including evaluating agro-processing plants utility systems and determining their
conformity with the Albanian standards and safety considerations;
*      reviewing pollution control on a case by case basis and developing schemes to reduce the
quantity and improving the quality of factory waste output including the installation of
simple pre-treatment system to avoid unnecessary load on the public sewerage system;
-      assessing processing equipment and in advising what equipment could be rehabilitated and
what equipment requires replacement as well as advising local technicians in the repair
and rehabilitation of existing plants;
-      evaluating technical (and financial) solutions for the installation of new technical lines;
*      identifying foreign suppliers of needed equipment and in reviewing technical proposals
and price levels as well as in writing agreements for the supply, installation, test-runs,
and training with regard to new equipment bought from abroad;
*      developing marketing and distribution systems for food products;
*      identifying training needs of staff and organizing training of different types of specialists
including factory management to build up new management structure with lines of
responsibilities, controls and reporting; and
*      establishing budgetary systems which enable cost control and make provision for financial
management in an inflationary economy;



- 59 -                                       Annex 5.1
Page 7 of 7
C. Management Reporting
*     prepare regular progress reports (and comprehensive progress report) for the MAF and
the World Bank on all aspects of project implementation for the Director, APD;
*     prepare a position paper for and advise the MAF on the future direction of dairy sector
and the institutional arrangements required to support its development, including the need
for a permanent apex organization (including defining its role, functions, management
structure, staffing, and financial arrangements).



- 60 -                                       Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Timing                                Action                           Responsible
Party
1. General Until Credit Effectiveness
06/15/95A     The World Bank send the PPF approval to the MOF               IDA
06/25195A     The GOA (MOF) countersign the PPF                             MOF
07/31/95A     Establish Special Account in BOA for PPF                      APD
08/07/95A     Finalize Short List (and TORs) of TSU's foreign firms         APD
08/15/95A     Review and approval of Short List and TORs by IDA             IDA
10/2/95A     Issue Invitations to short listed firms for TSU            APD/PMU
-IRP
11/15/95     Establish Evaluation Committee for selection of TSU's foreign  ADP
firm
11/15/95                                                                APD, IKU,
Finalize list of equipment to be purchased in the framework of    ADA, IPBU
the project for all institutions involved.
12/05/95     Begin procurement of equipment to be financed out of PPF   APD/PMU
12/30/95     Evaluation of consulting firm proposals, contract award and   APD
signature
10/30/95     Negotiations of Agro-Processing Project                     GOA/IDA
11/02/95     Approval of Minutes of Negotiations                         IDA/GOA
11/20/95     Send Letter/telex to IDA approving the negotiated draft    GOA/RCB
Development Credit Agreement & Project Agreement
11/20/95     Send Authorization to IDA for the Albanian Ambassador to sign   GOA/RCB
the Development Credit Agreement, Project Agreement and
Netherlands Grant Agreement
12/12/95     Request IDA Board of Directors approval for the Project       IDA
12/18/95     Sign the Development Credit Agreement, Project Agreement      IDA/
and Netherlands Grant Agreement                             Albanian
Embassy
01/15/96     Ratify the signed Development Credit Agreement              Parliament
12/20/95     Ratify the signed Project Agreement                           RCB



Annex 6.1                                      - 61 -
Page 2 of 4
01/30/96     Send to IDA a legal opinion on the ratification of the   Ministry of
Development Credit Agreement                                Justice
12/30/95    Send to IDA a legal agreement on the ratification of the Project   RCB Legal
Agreement                                                  Counsel
12/15/95    | Open Special Account for the project                     APD/RCB
12/30/95    Sign Subsidiary Loan Agreement between MOF and RCB         MOF/RCB
01/31/96     Declare IDA Project Effective                                IDA
2/96       Organize Project Launch Workshop                          IDA/APD/
RCB
2. Technical Services Unit
11/30/95    Allocate office space for the TSU in the MAF               MAF/APD
01/15/96     Foreign firm joins TSU                                       APD
02/15/96     Selection of Albanian team to work in TSU with foreign experts   Int' firm
2/25/96     Preparation of Work Plan of TSU for first year               TSU
3/96       Organization of group of specialists serving the food industry  APD, IFR,
ADA
1996       Hiring of short term foreign experts as needed               TSU
1996       Twinning arrangements with Dutch institutions and others     APD
1996       Quarterly Project Progress Report to IDA                  APD/TSU
10/96      Preparation of Work Plan for 1997                          APD/All
Inst.
3. Technical Assistance and Training
1-3/96     Study Tour for Agro-Processing/Dairy                       APD/IDA
3/96       Compilation of T.A. and training program for 1996 including  APD, TSU,
all Albanian institutions concerned.                     IKU, ADA,
IVR
1996       On the job training for Dairy Industry                       TSU
Training of Albanian TSU staff in OT skills               Institute of
Informatic
Courses in small milk processing plant management         STS, IKU,
IPBU, ADA
Courses of milk collection and processing standards       TSU, ADA
1996       Participation in international meeting, and for food standards  IKU, IPBU
and food technology                                         ADA



- 62 -                                       Annex 6.1
Page 3 of 4
4/96       Acquaintance and presentation of the situation of food industry    TSU, APD
by in the main cities
1996       Pilot study of waste management in a small milk processing  TSU, IPBU
plant.
ADP-TSU
Organization of two workshops about the World experience in    ADA, IPBU
neighboring countries
ADP, IKU,
Organization of campaign on TV for the Law 'On Food' and  ADA, IPBU
sublegal, regulatory acts
4. ILU and Rural Commercial Bank
12/95      Acquaintance with terms and size that other institutions give  APD, TSU,
credits for the agro-processing industry in Albania          RCB
11/95      Revise ILU's Operational Guidelines                         RCB-ILU
1/96       Prepare TOR for consultancy service for the ILU and approval    RCB, IDA
of TOR by the World Bank
2/96       Start procurement of consultant service for the RCB       RCB, PMU
Irrig. Pr.
5 Albanian Dairy Association
2/96       To compile technical guidelines of the milk processing    APD, TSU,
acquaintance of the main indicators and needs of state standards.  ADA
3/96       Workshops for the quality control through quick testing methods  APD, TSU,
ADA
7/96       To raise the membership in the dairy association in the large  APD, TSU,
districts of Albania.                                     ADA
1996       To be in touch with foreign milk organizations and use their  APD, TSU,
materials for the benefit of local producers.             ADA
1997       Organization of similar activities as in 1996.            APD, TSU,
1998                                                                 IKU, IPBU



Annex 6.1                                                  - 63 -
Page 4 of 4
Appendix I
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3               Year 4
Task Name                                 Qtr I lQtr 2  Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2  tr3tr4 Otr  Qtr 2 1 Qtr   Qtr4 Qtr I I Qtr 2tr3Qtr 3
PPF
Technical Services Unit
Foreign Experts
Local Staff
Training (intermittent)
IKU & IPBU Foreign Experts (intermittent)          i     zz,
IKU & IPBU Training (intermittent)
Vehicles and Office Supplies                              v
Equipment
Line of Credit                                ,ZZ
Tech. Asst., RCB (intermittent)               .
Mid-term Review
WB Supervision                              co       022        Z3      !                      EE2 [1?2
Preparation    r                 Implementation



- 64 -                                                   Annex 6X2
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
Component/ Package             Total Cost  Procurement  Invitation  Submission  Signing of Completion
USS mil e/   Method        to Bid      of Bids    Contract      of
package
1. Civil Works                                --                --          --          --          -
2. Goods a/
2.1 Vehicles & Equiprnent              0.16         Intl. Shop    12/95      1/96        1/96       2/96
2.2 Office Equipment & Supplies        0.04         Nat. Shop   3/96         3/96       3/96        4/96
2.3 IPBU/IKU/QC Equipment 1            0.24         Intl. Shop   2/96        3/96       4/96        6/96
2.4 QC Lab Equipment 11                0.20         Intl. Shop    2/97       3/97       4/97        6/97
2.5 QC Lab Equipment 111               0.18         Intl. Shop   4/98        5198       5/98        6/98
2.6 Lab Materials 1                    0.04         Nat. Shop   3/96        4/96        4/96        5/96
2.7 Lab Materials 11                   0.05         Nat. Shop    11/97       11/97      11/97       11/97
2.8 IPBU Equipment & Materials         0.04         Nat. Shop    12/95       12/95       12/95      2/96
3. Consultants' Services
3.1 TSU - Foreign Firm  bl             0.60         Short list    10/95      12/95      12/95       1/96
3.2 ILU Credit Expat Expert b/         0.15         Individual   2/96        3/96       4/96        5/96
3.3 TSU Local Experts b/               0.07         Individual   2/96       2/96        2/96        3/96
3.4 Short-Terms Expat Experts b/       0.08         Individual   1997        1997        1997       1997
3.5 Training & Study Tours c/          0.15         Sole Source  1995-97     1995-97    1995-97    1995-97
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Investment Credit                  5.00           d/b/
4.2 PPF (USSO.6 million)               inc.above    Not
Applicable
4.3 Operating Costs, taxes, duties     0.10         Not
Applicable
Totals                                 7.10
a)     International shopping (aggregate US$780,000) packages estimated between US$50,000 and US$250,0O0. National
shopping (aggregate US$170,000) packages estirnated at less than US$50,000 per contract.
b)      Services of consultants/institutions/firms to be engaged in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultas.
c)      Local and international training and study tours will require prior IDA approval.
d)      Line of Credit- procurement of goods to be undertaken by sub-bormwers (private entrepreneurs) under the supervision
of the ILU in accordance with the established conunercial practices acceptable to IDA.
e/     Above include Netherlands cofinancing of US$1 million-- All procurement wil foUow IDA Procurement Ouideline.



Annex 63                                        -65 -
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELPMENT PROJET
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
PERIOD                          ANNUAL    CUMULATVnE
(Quarter Ending)                    (USS million)
March 1996                        0.6          0.6"
June 1996                         0.1           0.7
September 1996                    0.3           1.0
December 1996                     0.4           !.4
March 1997                        0.4           1.8
June 1997                         0.4           2.2
September 1997                    0.5          2.7
December 1997                     0.6          3.3
March 1998                        0.6          3.9
June 1998                         0.6           4.5
September 1998                    0.6          5.1
December 1998                     0.6          5.7
March 1999                        0.3          6.0
i Includes Refund of PPF advance.



Annex 6.4
ALBANIA: AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Activity                               Input I Process                              Output Measurement                           Impact
A. Entrepreneurs Support                                                                                                         Entrepreneurs requesting business management,
financial, and marketing advise from TSU
measured by breadth of advice requested
1. Establishment of TSU
a. Offices of TSU                Hiring of foreign ftrm and Albanian experts plus TSU services operational as measured by  Improved contact with entrepreneurs and
provision of office, computing equipment and    number of entrepreneurs contacted (target: 100) farmers, TSU reacting to specialized requests as
vehicles                                                                                 indicated through entrepreneurs opinion surveys
b. Training                      Trainers program, training of clients by TSU and Number of trainers trained, number of training  Long-term relevance of technical assistance
Albanian institutions, in-service, specialized, and courses offered and number of attendees in each measured by development of local capacity for
overseas training implemented                course                                      such training in future and improvements in the
business environment and skills of entrepreneurs.
c. Business Plan                 Business plan assistance to entrepreneurs    Number of clients assisted, quality of business  Clients better prepared to borrow from the
plan, number of loans granted on their business banking sector and open new or expand existing
plan                                        businesses
d. Technical advise              Advice by foreign and local experts          Improved business management, financial,     Entrepreneurs requesting management, financial,
marketing, environmental extension skills, as   and marketing advise from private advisers
demonstrated by breadth of advice offered (as   measured by breadth of advice requested;
reflected in work program)                  adoption rates of technical improvements
Improved operations in agro-processing plants  evaluated by clients
as measured by increased shelf life of selected
processed products, reduction in handling
losses, higher farm gate price, etc.
e. Awareness campaigns           preparation of consumer awareness campaigns on number of consumers reached, measured by    increased awareness of hygiene and quality
Radio/TV and print media                     number of listeners/viewers (target 30,000)    aspects by consumers as measured by surveys
f. Farmers Associations          assistance in the organization and operations of  number of PFAs established (target 3)and  Increased receptivity of PFAs by farmers
PFAs                                         number of members assisted.
2. Assistance to Quality Control     Laboratory equipment, trairing of personnel  numbers of tests conducted by the laboratories  improved enforcement of food quality control
and seminars conducted on enforcement of food laws
quality control system
3. Assistance to the RCB             foreign expertise hired                      number of loans applications reviewed and   improved project appraisal and supervision skills
approved
B. Investment Credit                    long term investment and working capital loans  number of loans made, collection rates, % of   restructuring of the agro-processing sector,
loans made to dairy/agro-processing sector  improved market access to farmers for milk and
other agro products, improved availability of
food products in urban markets



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27152
\   I h30'                 1 1900'                    1930' ,3                   20=00                      20'30                      2100'
Nrx,.                                                   FED.   j REP.                     OF    YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA !',
42-30'               -                                                                       w  A /230
/MALES!                  RPJ
E MADHEi                RPJ
.0 Ha n, AoFl    *      ,   Bicr 
-        p.,Fi.-HA
429i0'   I        '>   .   iarao% /-   IAK U K e s                                     42 00-
/SFiL 1no C4     /~'           PUK                 KUKEEr
/Kam K* OOS DIBER       !
ALBANIA                                                                         P.,hk.pi~~'.5~ue~  PhM~z
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT                                          uhKe7tX^kp;Ulz.                                   PeLi 
-t   a           MAT*i ''MAT
Al1 30,                      SEALEOCTRED CIKTIPERSODCNAESj>S KIe  ,tu F.Y. R.                                                                                     A-30'-
4    DISTRICT2CENTERS                                                                                                                      4
@    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                       a               7       ,                            J -,
''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ha1n                                                                      %'  ' - '4
i  o  3   Q   50                         uc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ">eRresEen
x 4    :   ALB HANIA                                                        4 N VLORE  \Perokopi
AR-RCESN  DEELPMN                                            PuhKseLS                                      PERMET -{ KOLNE
RIVERS                                                  M'  S.  re '.
U 12    J    v r  OsMAJORMILK PROUCRINGAEA                                           elrl  %,       GlOASE    
DISTRICT ROUNDARIES
-iSRAZHD
o     AtB^NIAy    ,,  [.  ;e -   -                                              ;~~~~~savae i
KAVAJE                                                                              1995
PEQNPreja
GRAMSH(GAD&                      A
KILOMETERS
pa     . a  , pa a . W449 -kBEA
________________________________________________                   (MA LKASL4 .              SKRAPAR                             Ei hI
SWTDEN,,  ~~~~~,       RUSSIAN                            .
DIENMOK                ~LATVIA\(.                                                                           do                              1
LTUANIA        (                             \ORE        \rhe                                     KO NJ(
-  -     9".                  ~~~~~~~macra-eD          TEPELENE            PRE
N Er H        )                  .     ELARUS                                                              Laar                   rec R
* GERMASNY    I
2.  ~~~~ZEHUKRAINE                                                                                     GIOA   E
L VA ~             ~              I
-i   < ROMANIA                                                         JOEi VINE
BUGAI                                                         Sarad.       )              '            GREECE
'TALY                        LAI
ISARANDE
',-GREECE, "3-r     TURKEY
0              1930'                     ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~                    ~~23030'  20 30'  21 00
JUNE 1995









L i ,
i4
C...t.
7. -,.
I   _--                                                     



