Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21579
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27950; PPFI-P9330; TF-20804)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR AN
AGRO-PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 8, 2001
Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lek
100 Lek = US$ 0.7
US$ I = 142 Lek
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAEF - Albanian American Enterprise Fund
ABA - American Bank of Albania
ADA - Albanian Dairy Association
APDP - Agro-processing Development Project
APO - Agricultural Programs Office (of MoAF)
BART - Bank Asset Resolution Trust
EDCB - Engineering Design and Consulting Bureau
FEFAD - Federation for Enterprise Finance and Development
GoA - Government of Albania
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IDA - International Development Association
IKU - Institute of Food Research
IPBU - Institute of Agriculture and Food Design
IKV - Institute of Veterinary Research
MoAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MoF - Ministry of Finance
PFA - Private Farmers Association
PFI - Private Financial Institution
PIU - Project Implementation Unit (of MoF)
RCB - Rural Commercial Bank
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
TA  - Technical Assistance
TSU - Technical Services Unit
VOCA - Volunteers in Overseas Cooperative Assistance
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortmnan, ECCO4
Sector Manager:   Ilham Zurayk, ECSPF
Program Team Leader:    Hormoz Aghdaey, ECSPF
Task Team Leader:    Vinod K. Goel, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
Agro-processing Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                              13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P035787                                        Project Nanie: Agroprocessing Development
Team Leader: Vinod K. Goel                                 TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: Februarv 12, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Agroprocessing Development                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-27950;
PPFI-P9330; TF-20804
Country/Department: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/15/93                                 Effective: 03/18/96            02/21/96
Appraisal:  05/27/94                                   MTR:
Approval:  12/12/95                                 Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD/ MINISTRY
OF FINANCE/ FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Other Partners: GOVERNMENT OF NETHERLANDS
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                               Johannes Linn
Coountry Manager:    Christiaan J. Poortman                      Michelle Noel
Sector Manager:      liham Zurayk                                Rory O'Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:   Vinod K. Goel                              Vinod K. Goel
ICR Primary Author:  Ibrahim Hackaj; Ekaterina N.
Koryukin
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely; UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustailtability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perjbrmance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objective was to support the development of the agro-processing sector and to help



improve conditions for its restructuring through the financial sector in order to improve marketing
of farm outputs (thereby improving rural incomes) and availability of food products to the urban
consumer.
The project was designed to support an integrated private sector approach in which the entire
marketing chain, i.e., collection, processing and distribution of the products, was tackled. The
approach was to take maximum utilization of existing assets whenever economically feasible, with
appropriate investments in renovation of existing plants, including new equipment. A substantial
amount of training and technical assistance support was to be provided to upgrade skills and to
improve management and business practices, as well as to strengthen local institutional capacity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no major revision of project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of an Investment component and an Entrepreneurs Support component.
The Investment component was to provide a line of credit for on-lending by the Rural
Commercial Bank (RCB) at market rates to private agriculture enterprises, farmers and private
farmers' associations for long-term (and permanent working capital) loans.
The Entrepreneurs Support component was to provide funds for: (i) long and short term experts
in various fields; (ii) direct technical assistance and training/study tours to agro-processing
entrepreneurs (and their associations), organization of private farmers' associations, processing,
quality assurance, management, marketing and other business aspects; and (iii) limited assistance
to local institutions to strengthen their technical services and quality control law enforcement
capabilities.
The Entrepreneurs Support component was co-financed by the Government of Netherlands
(US$1 million grant). Since the objectives of the Grant were the same as of the IDA Credit, and
the beneficiary used the same approach to the implementation of both the Grant and the Credit,
this ICR is applicable to both.
3.4 Revised Components:
In 1997-1998, the project was restructured due to the insolvency of RCB. As a result of this
restructuring, several Private Financial Institutions (PFIs) were selected to act as financial
intermediaries for the Investment component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory, based on the strengths of (i) consistency of objectives with
the CAS and GoA priorities; and (ii) project design which accounted for institutional constraints
and risks.
-2 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective:
Considering periods of political, civil and economic instability during project implementation,
achievement of objectives can be considered mostly satisfactory. Most of the major objectives,
especially institutional building, were achieved, or partially achieved. Institute for Food Research
(IKU) and Institute for Veterinary Research (IKV) strengthened their capabilities, and are likely
to become self-sustainable institutions. Institute of Agriculture and Food Design (IPBU) was
successfully privatized and four private consulting firms emerged in its place. District Food
Laboratories in Durres and Vlora were established. Sub-borrowers (almost 400 entrepreneurs)
benefited from the credit line extended through the financial intermediaries, which helped them to
improve their production and profitability.
However, overall, the project outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory, due to the following reasons:
(i) The first financial intermediary, the RCB, failed and was liquidated during the project
implementation. The postponement by GoA of privatizing RCB worsened the situation
(since, later in 1997 due to the political unrest, RCB's privatization was no longer an
option and it was liquidated).  Most of the eight sub-loans provided by RCB are not
performning satisfactorily;
(ii) Some funds under the Investment component remained unutilized (over US$1 million
out of US$5 million allocated for this component). American Bank of Albania (ABA) and
Tirana Bank did not on-lend since other funds were available on the market under easier
terms and conditions. Although the Federation for Enterprise Finance and Development
(FEFAD) was very active in on-lending project funds, it provided mostly working capital
loans and not investment loans as was originally envisaged;
(iii) Some of the project sub-components, such as creation of Private Farmers'
Associations (PFAs) and assistance to Albanian Diary Association (ADA) either did not
materialize or were not successful for a number of reasons, including inactivity by the
MoAF, development of institutions providing similar services, and political instability;
(iv) District Food Laboratories equipped under the APDP are still not fully operational
because of the lack of adequate staff and training (likely to be overcome in the future); and
(v) Technical Services Unit (TSU) failed to become a sustainable institution and had to be
closed.
-3 -



4.2 Otitpuits by components:
Entrepreneurs Support Component
In accordance with the objectives, a large part of this component was used to provide support to
the following local institutions: IKU, IKV, IPBU, and district food laboratories in Durres and
Vlora. In general, implementation of this component was satisfactory, and most of the objectives
of institutional beneficiaries were achieved. However, private farmers' associations were not
established, since similar activities were carried out by other organizations such as Land O'Lakes,
Water Users Association and Fertilizers Association, and TSU was not able to initiate this work.
Institute of Food Research. IKU was established in 1962. In accordance with the Food Law of
May 25, 1995, IKU became a National Center of Reference for the evaluation of agricultural
products and an educational establishment to train agro-processors and food inspectors. It also
grants certificates for the registration of food manufacturing enterprises. The project financed new
equipment, staff training, and study tours for IKU.
After the project became effective, additional free training resources became available for IKU
through Volunteers in Overseas Cooperative Assistance (VOCA). As a result, only 20% of funds
allocated for IKU's technical assistance were utilized and some 23% of these funds were
reallocated for the procurement of new equipment. IKU's staff participated in several training
courses which helped to increase the quality of the Institute's research as well as the quantity and
quality of the tests performed. The number of food analysis carried out by IKU helped it to
increase its revenues by about 20%. More than 80% of the analysis is carried out using the new
equipment financed under the project.
Among its other functions, IKU is providing technical assistance to the district and regional food
laboratories and district food inspectors. During the project implementation period, about 12
chemistry experts from labs were trained at IKU. Since 1997, IKU has monitored 126 food
processing enterprises and identified their needs for assistance. As of mid 2000, IKU had assisted
106 food processing enterprises in introducing new technologies, quality improvement,
introduction to international standards for food quality and safety, and preparation of standards
for the new products. Since 1996, 12 workshops were carried out for food inspectors to
familiarize them with the food legislation/regulation and new methods of inspection. The institute
organized 7 national seminars with experts of food processing industry concentrating on 18
different subjects. IKU assisted the producers associations of flour, edible oils, milk, meat and
canary. Among other functions, IKU is carrying out annual training of veterinary laboratory staff
in all districts (about 65 people a year).
The Institute of Veterinary Research. IKV was established in 1928 as the only scientific research
center in the veterinary field. Like IKU, in accordance with the Food Law of May 25, 1995, IKV
became a National Center of Reference for the quality control of animal origin foods and the
training of staff of the district labs. The main tasks of the institute include the control of epizootic
situation, the production of vaccines and other biological products, diagnosis of diseases and the
determination of the schemes of defeating parasitic infections nationwide, and the control of the
livestock food, the control of food stuff products and sub-products of animal origin produced
- 4 -



within the country and those of imports.
The project financed the modernization and institutional strengthening of IKV. Most of the
institutional objectives of IKV were achieved under the project. Work undertaken under APDP,
especially purchase of equipment necessary to perform certain tests, helped IKV to apply for
international accreditation, which will enable it to perform certification of the Albanian products
for export. The number of analysis conducted by IKV increased by about 13% and, as a result, the
revenues increased by about 12% per annum. The Institute contributed to the project US$50,000
of its own revenues to finance some of the new equipment. In addition, IKV invested US$30,000
towards the modernization of its office facilities and building renovation. IKV is moving towards
self-sustainability and is expected to become independent from the State budget in the near future.
During the animal health epidemic outbreak in Macedonia in 1997, the Government requested and
IDA agreed to support measures related to strengthening of the Albanian border inspections,
including preparation of animal vaccines. However, while the project financed preparation of
animal vaccines, strengthening of the border inspection posts did not materialize due to inaction
on the part of MoAF.
District Food Laboratories. During the restructuring of the project in 1997, MoAF requested
IDA to increase allocation for the district laboratories in Durres, Vlora and Tirana (originally only
the Durres lab was to be financed by APDP). These laboratories were planned to provide testing
services to agro-processing entrepreneurs in the districts, which became even more important due
to the epidemic outbreak in Macedonia. Given that most of the activities of the Tirana lab were
carried out by IKU and IKV, IDA advised MoAF not to include the Tirana lab in the project, but
concentrate only on the labs in Durres and Vlora, the important ones in the country. As a
contribution to the project, MoAF agreed to renovate both lab buildings, while the project funds
were used to provide these labs with the necessary equipment for more frequently performed tests
and training of staff. More complex tests continued to be carried out by the central labs in Tirana.
To achieve economies of scale, veterinary products and agro-food control labs were combined in
Durres and Vlora. Within this framework, the amount allocated for Durres and Vlora laboratories
was increased to US$410,000 from the US$250,000 initially planned (reallocated from technical
assistance category). By the project closing date, all planned equipment was installed and ready
to perform the tests.
As follow up to the project, to ensure sustainability of the achievements, both laboratories would
have to revisit their staffing needs as well as to carry out additional training for their staff. It
should also be noted that additional small investments would be needed to ensure proper
functioning of the new equipment, such as adequate water and electric supply for the labs. After
both labs are fully staffed and all equipment is fully functional, the current regulations should be
revised (in January 1997, MoAF transferred some of the functions of these labs to IKU and IKV).
Institute of Agriculture and Food Design. Prior to 1992, IPBU was a part of IKU. In 1992,
IPBU was given an independent status as a commercial organization to provide services to the
private and public sector on a fee basis. These services included architectural design, civil
- 5 -



construction, mechanical, electrical and sanitary engineering, and food processing and economic
studies. However, this institution failed to function efficiently, and, based on the advice of IDA,
in December 1996, the MoAF decided to privatize it. In 1997, IPBU was privatized, creating
four consulting companies from its staff: Engineering Design and Consulting Bureau (EDCB),
PIRA (construction consulting company), CARCANI (the hydro-sanitary, electricity and
mechanical industries consulting), and GAMBETA (construction consulting). While all of these
companies became rather successful after privatization, the IDA support focused on the EDCB
since it remained involved in the agro-processing sector. EDCB's services concentrate in the
areas of technological design of buildings and installment of equipment for the agro-processing
industry (meat, dairy, bread, sausage, conservation, lab designs), and technical assistance for the
start up and/or rehabilitated agro-processing enterprises. EDCB is also active in providing its
services to the construction industry.
The Albanian Dairy Association was established and registered with the International Dairy
Federation in 1994. This association was supported by the Project on a limited basis. ADA was a
volunteer organization led by an executive committee with representation from MoAF, IKU, the
University of Tirana and the private sector. ADA at its early stage of development had no
resources at its disposal. The main objective of ADA was to advise MoAF and government
agencies on matters relating to the dairy industry, such as extension services. ADA carried out a
number of activities supporting milk producers and it had its ups and downs reflecting the
deterioration of the security situation in Albania. However, given the presence of and competition
from other companies and organizations in this field, such as IPBU, IKU, VOCA and Land O'
Lakes, it was not able to achieve self-sustainability. The extension services were provided by
some private processors free of charge. Many of these services are also provided by MoAF. On
the other hand, Land 0' Lakes gained more terrain in Albania because of its independence and
because its well paid and properly equipped team is able to provide services free of charge. In any
case, on a limited basi', ADA was able to help many entrepreneurs who carried out the milk
collection and processmg.
Investment Component
At the time of project appraisal, the banking system in Albania consisted of three State banks,
accounting for 95% of loans and deposits, and three foreign joint-venture banks. The Rural
Commercial Bank was selected as the financial intermediary for the credit to the agro-processing
industry. RCB had emerged as a new State bank in October 1993, and under the Bank-financed
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC, FY93) a comprehensive program of institutional
strengthening in key areas was initiated for the bank. Nevertheless, serious management and
corporate governance issues prevailed, preventing this bank from developing its institutional
capacity. The bank had an extensive network of 33 branches and 130 agencies, with 12,000
private farmer-clients. In 1995, its loan portfolio was some US$40 million equivalent. However,
even at the time of appraisal, RCB's financial health was endangered by its increasing portfolio of
non-performing loans. One of the reasons was the too short maturity (about one year) of the
loans, which resulted in large defaults. The bank was facing a structural cash-flow gap, which
could not be overcome without financial restructuring. The postponement of the RCB
privatization by GoA worsened the viability of this institution.
-6 -



Since problems with RCB were evident at the appraisal, to safeguard the investments, funds to the
final sub-borrowers were to be channeled through the Independent Lending Unit (ILU), and RCB
was to use the Operational Guidelines for the APDP sub-loans created with assistance from IDA.
Eight sub-projects were reviewed and approved by ILU, but in October 1996, serious
deterioration in RCB's financial condition became evident, and the APDP credit line was put on
hold. Given that sub-borrowers were not at fault, IDA honored the decision of RCB to fund
these eight sub-borrowers for a total amount of US$920,000. In 1997, due to the civil and
political turmoil in Albania, the RCB restructuring/privatization became infeasible, and the bank
was closed. Its loan portfolio including the APDP sub-loans was transferred to the public
collection agency, Bank Asset Resolution Trust (BART).
Unfortunately, the performance of most of these sub-loans is not satisfactory. Out of the eight
sub-borrowers, three closed their businesses. Of the remaining five, only two have a good
financial standing and honor payments on time. Three other sub-borrowers are either in the
process of restructuring the sub-loans or are being forced to pay through court action. About 2%
of the principal amount has been repaid so far. Such bad performance is not surprising, as some
of the sub-borrowers were affected by the civil unrest of 1997, and others were not paying since
the loan was provided by the State bank which no longer exists.
After the RCB's failure, the Government proposed to reopen the line of credit through other State
banks. Given the poor financial and institutional condition of these banks, however, IDA did not
agree to this proposal. Following some negotiations, agreement was reached to engage Private
Financial Institutions as intermediaries. This was done based on transparent eligibility criteria,
applied in the selection of interested PFIs. The Albanian American Enterprise Fund (AAEF), the
Federation for Enterprise Finance and Development (which became a bank in March 1999), and
Tirana Bank were selected. Following amendment of the Development Credit Agreement in
February 1998, the MoF signed Subsidiary Agreements with each PFI. One year later, the
American Bank of Albania also signed the SA with the MoF. Since ABA is a subsidiary of
AAEF, AAEF's Agreement was closed at that time.
The performance of the PFIs has been mixed, and over US$1 million out of US$5 million
allocated for this component remained unutilized. FEFAD was very active and on-lent about
US$2.3 million of the funds available, while ABA on-lent only US$111,000 to one entrepreneur,
and Tirana Bank did not make any sub-loans. This was due to ABA's and Tirana Bank's access
to other funds, which they found easier to use. Tirana Bank's interest in using the APDP credit
line also weakened when IDA insisted on proper reporting requirements and the prior review of
the first sub-loan. IDA felt that lowering the standards did not serve developmental objectives,
and after some time of inactivity, in July 1999, MOF agreed to disqualify Tirana Bank.
The quality of the FEFAD bank portfolio of APDP sub-loans is very good. The bank provided
some 300 sub-loans in LEK (175 already repaid) and 71 sub-loans in DEM (35 repaid). The
collection rate of these sub-loans is 97%. The proceeds from the sub-loans, which were repaid,
are being utilized for new credits. Sub-loans were mainly short-term for 3 to 6 months and
medium-term of 12 to 18 months. The main sectors were bread production (13%), whole and
-7 -



retail sale of agriculture products (22%), light alcoholic drinks (12%); vegetable and fruit
processing (11%), and milk processing (8%) and other. After the project closing date of June 30,
2000, FEFAD remained active in lending to the agro-processing sector and made about 125 more
sub-loans financed from its own sources.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of'return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development inpact:
All major objectives set by the institutional beneficiaries under the project were achieved.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governnment or inmplementing agency:
Project implementation was affected by the collapse of the pyramid schemes and the subsequent
civil unrest during 1997, and, to a much lesser extent, the short period of unrest in September
1998, and the Kosovo refugee crisis of 1999. These events have been substantially documented
and discussed including in the CAS.
During the 1997 of unrest, some bank branches were looted and burned, and private
agro-processors suspended their production activities and organized themselves to protect their
businesses. Nevertheless, some were forced to abandon their facilities and hence faced damages.
The 1997 crisis had a significant negative impact on the implementation of the project, with a
decline in project disbursements and other project indicators. During this period, mission travel to
Albania was suspended several times, but close contact was maintained with the TSU and
technical institutions through the Resident Mission. Following the elections in June 1997, the new
Government focused its efforts on restoring peace and stability and project activities resumed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) Delays in staffing of the TSU because of political considerations in staff selection, and
reluctance to provide the international consulting firm adequate autonomy for running TSU as
originally envisaged. As a result, the technical skills of the unit ended up being substantially lower
than required and entrepreneurs could not fully benefit from it.
(ii) The lack of acknowledgment by the Government (prior to 1997) of RCB's difficulties and
delay in proceeding with the divestiture of RCB. Later on, a year delay in following IDA's advice
to use PFIs as intermediaries for the credit line.
- 8 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) The PMU of the Irrigation Project was sometimes slow in carrying out the procurement and
disbursement activities under APDP, as well as there were frictions between the TSU and PMU
managers. As a result, TSU even though not originally envisaged for this role, had to take over
the project implementation, which overburdened it due to their lack of familiarity with the World
Bank procedures. This arrangement also contributed to delays and frustrations on the side of
both the TSU and the beneficiaries.
(ii) TSU was not proactive in launching the private farmers' association sub-component, which
contributed to the failure of this sub-component.
(iii) Institutional beneficiaries commented that TSU was not very helpful in providing them with
training, but concentrated more on its own training needs. As a result, the institutes had to use
their own scarce resources to finance additional training.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total actual cost of the project was 85% of the appraised cost (US$5.8 million compared to
US$7.1 million). 81% of the IDA credit and 81% of the Netherlands Grant were disbursed. The
Government contributed US$0.22 million to the project, primarily for the renovation of the
district food laboratories, which is more than twice the expected contribution of US$0.1 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project benefits are likely to be sustainable. After 1997, the macroeconomic situation of the
country improved. The economic growth rate reached 8% and 1% in 1998 and 1999,
respectively. Inflation of consumer prices decreased from 33% in 1997 to 21% and 0% in 1998
and 1999, respectively. The availability of processed food products to the urban consumer is
growing every year. The quality of dairy products also improved due to better herd consolidation
(there are about 3,800 herds with more than three milking cows and 4,100 herds with more than
50 sheep and goats). The sub-loans provided by the PFIs helped to support almost 400 small
entrepreneurs in agro-processing. These investments helped to increase the beneficiaries'
profitability and were generally associated with improved management and higher outputs. Most
of the credits are being repaid on a timely basis, which is an indication of a good performance by
the sub-borrowers.
With the purchase of the new equipment and technical assistance, the institutional beneficiaries
started to generate some profits and are likely to become self-sustainable in the future. Both
district labs have received modem equipment and are likely to achieve sustainability if they are
able to hire the appropriate staff and receive more training from the technical institutes. More
follow-up actions maybe needed for these laboratories.
- 9-



6.2 Transition arrangenient to regular operations:
NA
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
The Banks performance during appraisal was satisfactory. Most of the risks and weaknesses of
the project were identified realistically, and safeguards (such as involvement of ILU in on-lending)
were put in place to help insure a positive outcome. The project was designed to form a part of
IDA's overall development strategy for the agricultural sector, which was jointly formulated by
the Bank, the EU, and GoA.
7.2 Stipervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. The Bank was responsive to
changes and allowed for timely adjustments in implementation as well as approved inclusion of
additional items, such as financing additional district food laboratories and border inspection posts
and vaccines. Through intensive supervision (for such a small project) by the IDA team and close
communication with the Borrower, the project received timely monitoring even during unstable
periods in the country. The missions provided critical policy advice for the RCB restructuring
/privatization. The IDA suspension of the credit line happened at the appropriate time to save
part of the credit line from the whirlwind of the pyramid schemes. IDA kept close contact with
other projects in the agro-processing industry, avoided overlapping and reaped some synergy
from the VOCA TA program.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank's performance during implementation of the project was satisfactory. The
APDP was a continuation of and a complement to the Bank's comprehensive assistance program
for the Albanian Agriculture Sector.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. MoAF actively participated in
the project preparation and contributed to its design.
7.5 Governnient implementation perjbrnmance:
The Borrower's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. Even though the MoAF
helped many project activities to happen, many actions, such as selection of the international
consulting company and the TSU staff, assistance to the district food laboratories, and border
inspection posts were either very delayed, or did not materialize. Inactivity on the side of the
Borrower to privatize/ restructure RCB contributed to failure of this institution. Due to the heavy
workload on Agricultural Programs Office (APO) (26 projects), many urgent issues,
- 10-



unfortunately, went largely unattended by the Govermment officials. Contrary to the agreement
reached during appraisal, the Borrower did not give adequate independence to TSU and at the
same time it did not provide enough oversight.
Nevertheless, the Government showed its commitment to the project and helped it to achieve
good results. It supported privatization of IPBU which went through very well; made a
considerable effort to assist the district food laboratories by refurbishing labs' buildings and
consolidating analysis of food and animal-origin food products; and provided full support to the
institutional building activities of IKU and IKV. In many instances, the Borrower showed
flexibility and commitment to the earlier agreed actions, such as not interfering with the
on-lending by the financial intermediaries and allowing them to lend at market rates to the
agro-processing sector.
7.6 Implementinig Agency:
Implementation of the project was mixed. During the life-time of the project, implementation
functions were carried out by different institutions.
Investment Component. This component was implemented at the start by RCB with the help of
ILU. Performance of ILU was satisfactory. ILU had good staff assisted by a foreign consultant
and provided thorough evaluation of sub-loans. After closure of RCB, implementation of this
component was handled by the PFIs, whose performance was also satisfactory. There were no
major implementation related issues under this component.
Entrepreneurs Support Component. It was initially agreed that procurement and other
administrative support for this component would be carried out by the Project Management Unit
(PMU) for the Irrigation Project. TSU, who comprised a contractually retained foreign firm and
local staff from the private sector, was expected to provide technical assistance services to
entrepreneurs. However, this arrangement did not work well. Due to the slowness of PMU's
assistance, as well as frictions between PMU and TSU managements, TSU had to take over all
implementation responsibilities. In addition, TSU was not able to meet expectations in providing
adequate technical assistance services to the clients. The quality of the consulting services
provided by the international firm also was not up to high standards and team leaders were
changed three times. Furthermore, the local project coordinator proved to be problematic and
was not cooperating with other organizations. The original plan to provide adequate
independence to international consultants in managing the TSU did not materialize, since MoAF
was reluctant to provide such control to a foreign firm. Subsequently, in October 1997, TSU's
role was modified to focus on implementation functions rather than technical assistance.
Nevertheless, despite all problems, a lot was done by TSU on the marketing aspects, food
processing, dairy processing, and quality control issues, including training, small missions
investigating the development of the sector and advising entrepreneurs, and promotion activities.
Yet, the lack of proper guidance from foreign firm as well as TSU's poor performance contributed
to its not being able to develop into a self-sustainable business model.
Lack of proper oversight by MoAF (and APO) contributed to the misuse of some project funds by
- 1 1 -



TSU. During 1999, TSU utilized some credit funds, without proper authorization, for ineligible
expenses including payment of bonuses to TSU's staff and financing of two foreign trips. The
amount of US$72 thousand was found ineligible for project funding by the Bank team (and later
confirmed by the independent audit of 1999 project accounts). After repeated requests from IDA,
the GoA refunded these expenses in January 2001.
In June 1999, after the extension of the Investment component for one year, and in view of
closure of the Entrepreneurs Support component and difficulties with TSU, it was agreed to close
TSU and transfer the project implementation responsibilities for the Investment component to the
MoF-PIU. Despite this agreement, TSU remained operational until February 2000, and continued
to retain the services of the international consultants until December 1999, although this
component was closed on June 30, 1999, and all activities were to be completed by this date.
Since these expenses were not eligible, IDA was not able to finance them.
Given the lack of cooperation by the TSU manager, including refusal to transfer the files, the
MoF-PIU was not able to administer the project adequately. The financial specialist hired for this
project was not experienced and, consequently, disbursements were processed with delays,
causing difficulties to the clients, and reporting was not provided to the Bank on time. After the
project was closed, the MoF-PIU was not able to recover the Special Account until late January
2001 in view of the absence of project information on time.
7.7 Overall Borrower peiforinance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory. Many of the implementation flaws and
delays could have been avoided or minimized with a more proactive role and timely reaction on
the part of the Borrower, especially the MoAF.
8. Lessons Learned
At the appraisal stage, the Government wanted the project to focus on the dairy industry only.
IDA, however, preferred to expand the scope of the project to include all of the agro-processing
sector. As a compromise, it was agreed at that time, that while technical assistance would be
targeted at the dairy sector, the credit line would be extended to the entire agro-processing
industry. In the end, only 12% of the credit line was on-lent to the dairy industry, indicating that
in some cases it pays to keep the project flexible to help to achieve broader developmental
objectives.
Also during the appraisal, MoAF wanted to fix the interest rates of the sub-loans to be granted
under the Investment component, and to have a say in the approval of sub-loans. IDA did not
agree to such an arrangement in view of the following: (i) fixed interest rates were likely to cause
distortions; and (ii) since financial institutions have appropriate skills and agree to bearing the
credit risks, they should have full control over the sub-loans, and lending should be a business
decision and not political. Accordingly, GoA agreed not to interfere in the banks' on-lending.
Over 400 sub-loans to the Albania agro-processing sector were granted at market rates, which
proved this arrangement viable in Albania.
- 12 -



In 1997, when RCB was liquidated, the GoA requested IDA to channel the credit line through
other State banks. IDA, however, insisted on using only private intermediaries given the weak
institutional capacity and poor financial situation and the portfolio condition of the State banks.
The project experience showed that this was the right decision, as the quality of sub-loans
provided by the private intermediaries is far superior to that of the RCB.  In the environment
where the legal and judicial framework for contract enforcement is weak, credit risk management
function becomes even more important. Private banks have more incentives than State banks to
lend with more caution to insure themselves against losses associated with poor enforcement
mechanisms.
Project experience proved how difficult it is to create PlUs (in this case TSU), as new institutions,
with the objective of making them viable after the project completion. This difficulty is neither
project-specific, nor particular to the business environment in Albania. Success mostly depends
on the quality of leadership and dedication of the key staff. In case of TSU, the international
consulting finn and the project manager were weak, which made it difficult to achieve desired
results. With the different staff, the outcome could have been different.
As shown by the example of IPBU, timely privatization of an inefficient public institution can help
to develop a viable private business, such as consulting companies created on the basis of IPBU.
With some help from the Government and from the project, the four private companies are
achieving good results.
A project which is well targeted to the needs of the beneficiaries and which is closely supervised
can achieve its main objectives even during periods of political and economic unstability as in
Albania in 1996 - 1998.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MoAF provided useful comments to the report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Very useful inputs were provided by institutional beneficiaries of the project: IKU, IKV and
IPBU. For the Investment component contributions were provided by FEFAD Bank and BART.
10. Additional Information
NA
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Offices of TSU                        TSU services operational as measured by   Satisfactory
number of entrepreneurs contracted (target:
100)
Training                              Number of trainers trained, number of  Unsatisfactory
training courses offered and number of
attendees in each course
Business plan assistance to entrepreneurs   Number of clients assisted, quality of  Unsatisfactory
business plan, number of loans granted on
their business plan
Advice by foreign and local experts   Improved business management, financial,  Satisfactory
marketing, environmental extension skills, as
demonstrated by breadth of advice offered.
Preparation of consumer awareness     Number of consumers reached, measured   Not done
campaigns on Radio/TV and print media    by number of listeners / viewers (target,
30,000)
Assistance in the organization and    Number of PFAs established (target: 3) and  Not done
operations of private farmer associations    number of members assisted
(PFAs)
Laboratory equipment, training of personnel  Number of tests conducted by laboratories   Satisfactory
for Quality Control                   and seminars conducted on enforcement of
food quality control systems
Foreign expertise hired for Rural Commercial Number of loans applications reviewed and   RCB went bankrupt in 1997. Investment
Bank (RCB)                            approved                              component was implemented by PFis.
Long-term investment and working capital   Number of loans made, collection rates, % of Partially satisfactory
loans under Investment Component      loans made to dairy/agro-processing sector
Output Indicators:
bLdfate d M   Ix  P0d                         P8E                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __E_
District Food Laboratories to become  Buildings renovated, equipment installed,    Satisfactory - 2 District Labs opened and
operational                           staff trained                         providing services to the ciients
Private Financial Institutions participation in  Due to liquidation of RCB, new suitable  Satisfactory - 3 PFI selected and involved in
Investment Component                  on-lending institutions to be found to provide the project
funds to agro- processing sector
Institutional Beneficiaries in Agro-processing Equipment installed, TA/Training provided   Satisfactory - 3 institutes assisted
sector
End of project
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I   AchuLiAostPercentage of
Technical Assistance and Training                    0.97            0.80            82
Equipment and Vehicles                               0.83            0.82           99
Other*                                               0.09            0.23          256
Investment Credit Component                           5.00           3.97           80
Total Baseline Cost                                   6.89           5.82
Physical Contingencies                              0.11            0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.11            0.00
Total Project Costs              7.11           5.82
Total Financing Required              7.11            5.82
* Actual expenditures under this category include reconstruction of district food laboratories' buildings.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ex C_ - .ndIJtB t eC ata|go              -48 .F.                            Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.85         0.10         0.95
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.85)       (0.00)        (0.85)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.15         0.90         1.05
Technical Assistance;        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.15)        (0.00)       (0.15)
Training & Study Tours
4. Investment Credit         0.00          0.00         5.00         0.00         5.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)        (5.00)
5. Operating Costs, taxes,   0.00          0.00         0.10         0.00         0.10
duties                       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00         0.00          6.10         1.00         7.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.00)        (0.00)       (6.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
_xp.odItur  ts                 K.N'''2-                           .B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.74         0.28         1.02
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.52)       (0.00)        (0.52)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.26         0.54         0.80
Technical Assistance;        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.26)        (0.00)       (0.26)
Training & Study Tours
4. Investment Credit         0.00          0.00         3.97          0.00        3.97
- 15 -



(0.00)          (0.00)         (3.97)          (0.00)         (3.97)
5. Operating Costs, taxes,        0.00             0.00           0.03            0.00           0.03
duties                            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.03)          (0.00)         (0.03)
Total                          0.00            0.00            5.00            0.82           5.82
(0.00)          (0.00)         (4.78)          (0.00)         (4.78)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
1 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Technical Assistance and   0.20                  0.90       0.26                 0.53     130.0           58.9
Training
Equipment and Vehicles     0.85                  0.10       0.52       0.02      0.28      61.2           280.0
Other*                                0.10                  0.03       0.20                       200.0
Investment Credit          5.00                             3.97                           79.4
* Actual expenditures under this category include reconstruction of district food laboratories' buildings.
- 16 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project contributed several benefits to the Albanian economy:
It promoted restructuring of the agro-processing sector. Rural incomes are expected to increase due to the
improved market access for farmers to sell their surplus farm products. Access to markets also resulted in
improved farm production and the urban consumer received supply of quality processed food products.
The project assisted in institutional building improving private entrepreneurship and human capital through
training, technical education and advice. Improvements in the quality control system also had a positive
impact on food production and nutrition intake.
The institutional beneficiaries, IKU and IKV, were able to achieve their objectives and started to generate
profits. The number of tests performed by them has increased thus improving the quality of food products
in the country. IKV is about to receive an international accreditation to certify products for export, which
will help Albania to start exporting food products to the neighboring countries. The district food
laboratories in Durres and Vlora assisted by the project will perform the most common tests in the regions
thus improving the quality of the food products in the regions and saving costs to the entrepreneurs.
The project provided credits to over 400 small entrepreneurs in agro-processing sector. These investments
helped to increase the beneficiaries' profitability and were generally associated with improved management
and higher outputs. The repayment rate is about 97% as of today, which is an indication of a good
performance by the sub-borrowers. The financial intermediaries would be able to re-lent these funds over
the next several years thus providing much wider beneficial impact.
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Sf   roect Cyl                      No. off PesonsfX an Scl                     e      c Rating
(g.2~ Ecnmss   M,ec.             mlmMainvelopmt
Identificaton/Preparation
10/1993
1/1994                        3   Agro-processing Specialist,
Banking Specialist, Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/1994                       2   Task Manager, Agri Spec
05/1995                       3   Task Manager, Specs
08/1995                       1   Task Manager
Supervision
5/1996                         1  Task Manager                          U                 S
08/1996                        3  Specialists                           U                  S
10/1996                        1  Task Manager                          U                 U
4/1997                         1  Task Manager                          U                 U
11/1997                        1  Task Manager                          U                 U
2/1998                         2  Task Manager, Agri Spec.              U                 U
6/1998                         2  Task Manager, Agri Spec.              U                  S
12/1998                        2  Task Manager, Agri Spec.              S                 S
6/1999                         2  Task Manager, Agri Spec               S                  S
ICR
4/2000                        2   Oper. Analyst, Agri Spec              U                  S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estm,ate
'________________  No. Sta,fA:f    s    'USlS .   000
Identification/Preparation                 24                         73.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    27.3                         70.1
Supervision                              87.7                        207.6
ICR                                       10.4                        39.9
Total                                   149.3                        391.4
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
l Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
r Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
OI Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
l Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
[] Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 19 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
D Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
D Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU   OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
C Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  u  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   *  u  O HU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS * u O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Superivision Missions Back-to-Office Reports and Aide-Memoires, including the last supervision/ ICR
mission report
2. Project Status Reports
3. Input from Institute of Food Research
4. Input from Institute of Veterinary Research
5. Input from former Institute of Agriculture and Food Design (currently Engineering Design and
Consulting Bureau)
6. Input from FEFAD Bank
7. Input from Bank Assets Resolution Agency
- 21 -



