Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2795 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Agro-Processing Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RURAL COMMERCIAL BANK
Dated December 19, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2795 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1995 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and RURAL COMMERCIAL BANK (RCB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
RCB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RCB, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be relent to RCB on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS RCB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective
Page  2
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project;
Management and Operations of RCB
Section 2.01. RCB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance 
with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, 
and in accordance with the Charter and the Statement of General Policy.
Section 2.02  (a) RCB undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
(b)
RCB shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) achieve the purposes of the Project; (ii) protect the interests of 
the Association, the Borrower and of RCB; and (iii) comply with its obligations under 
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. RCB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. RCB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RCB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. RCB shall take all necessary actions required on its part for:
(a)
the preparation of its financial restructuring and privatization plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, not later than December 31, 1996, and the 
implementation of the said plan thereafter;
(b)
not change its organizational structure except the changes which shall be 
introduced pursuant to the restructuring plan as mentioned in paragraph (a) above, or 
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive its Charter without prior approval of the 
Association; and
(c)
maintain ILU with staffing and functions acceptable to the Association.
 
Section 2.06. (a) RCB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RCB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RCB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) RCB shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of Part B of the Project and of each Sub-project (including 
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of RCB.
(b)
RCB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Page  3
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. RCB shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as shall 
be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the 
rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Leks) used in its 
operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RCB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify RCB of this event. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For RCB:
Page  4
Rural Commercial Bank
Zhan d'þArk Street
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
2108 RCB AB
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RCB, or by RCB 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by Chief Executive Officer or such other person or persons as Chief Executive 
Officer shall designate in writing, and RCB shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Loos
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
RURAL COMMERCIAL BANK
By /s/ L. Dilja
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions
of, Sub-loans
1.
Sub-loans shall be made by RCB to: (a) Beneficiaries, other than farmers, who 
each shall have established, satisfactory to RCB, on the basis of Operational 
Guidelines, that: (i) it is creditworthy, and has a sound financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of the Sub-project; (ii) its projected cash generation or equity 
increases shall be sufficient to enable it to meet the estimated expenditures required 
for the Sub-project; and (iii) for each Beneficiary other than an individual 
entrepreneur, it is in a position to maintain a debt to equity ratio of not more than 
70:30 and a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5:1; or
(b)
farmers who each shall have established, satisfactory to RCB, on the 
basis of Operational Guidelines, that he/she is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory 
financial structure and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the 
Sub-project.
2.
Sub-loans shall be made by RCB for Sub-projects which are determined on the 
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association: (a) to be technically feasible and 
financially viable; (b) have a financial rate of return in real terms of at least 12 
percent; and (c) are designed with appropriate environmental standards consistent with 
the Albanian legislation satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  5
3.
Unless otherwise agreed with the Association, the principal amount of each 
Sub-loan shall be limited to an amount of $250,000 equivalent and the sum of Sub-loans 
outstanding at any time to one single Beneficiary shall not exceed $400,000 
equivalent.
4.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no new commitments for 
Sub-loans shall be made above the aggregate amount of SDR 1,700,000, unless RCB shall 
have furnished to the Association evidence showing that satisfactory collection rate 
of not less then 90% has been maintained by RCB on all loans made by RCB and financed 
by the Association including the Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
by the Association.
5.
The maturity of Sub-loans shall be not less than 2 years and not more than 7 
years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than one year.  At least 50% of the 
amount allocated for Sub-loans under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 
(i) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be onlend with maturity of 
four years or more.
6.
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the rate of interest of RCB applicable 
for investment loans based on RCB's interest rate policies, provided however, that the 
rate of interest on Sub-loans shall be, at all times, above the prevailing rate of 
inflation.
7.
All Sub-loans shall be appraised and approved by the ILU. 
 
8.
RCB shall maintain evaluation and supervision procedures for Sub-loans, 
satisfactory to the Association, including review of each Sub-project on the basis of 
environmental guidelines consistent with the Albanian legislation and satisfactory to 
the Association.
9.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) 
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the application 
and information required under paragraph 10(a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date 
on which the Association shall have received the request and information required 
under paragraph 10(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of the Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan 
shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $200,000 equivalent, when added to any 
other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit or of any other credit, provided for in any outstanding credit agreement 
between the Association and
the Borrower entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which 
have been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and materially 
related to such Sub-project.
10.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the 
Association for approval, RCB shall furnish to the Association an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary 
and an appraisal of the  Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; 
and (iii) such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(b)
Each request by RCB for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description 
of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before December 31, 1998.
Page  6
11.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby RCB shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Association and RCB, including the right to: 
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that goods, works and services shall be procured in accordance 
with the procedures provided in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and 
such goods shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or RCB shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with RCB.
