Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 020804
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2795 ALB
Netherlands Grant Agreement
(in Conjunction with the Agro-Processing Development Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Acting as Administrator on behalf of the
NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
Dated December 19, 1995
TF 020804
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2795 ALB
NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1995, between ALBANIA (the Beneficiary) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) on behalf of the NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION (the 
Minister). 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement (Agro-Processing 
Development Project), between Albania (the Beneficiary) and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the Beneficiary 
a Credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,100,000) to assist in the financing of a project (the Project) as described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)
pursuant to the General Arrangement, dated May 24, 1995, entered into 
between the Minister and the Association, the Minister has appointed the Association 
as Administrator of the Grant and has authorized the Association to do all such acts 
and things as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out such administration, 
including entering into this Netherlands Grant Agreement on behalf of the Minister, 
and to extend the Grant on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
pursuant to the Arrangement, dated August 26, 1995, entered into between 
the Minister and the Association (the Administration Arrangement), the Minister has 
decided to make available to the Beneficiary, a grant to cofinance the Project on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set  forth; and
Page  2
(D)
the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
act as Administrator of the Grant; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated January 1, 1985, with 
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Association acting as Administrator of the Grant;
(b)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Beneficiary;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions and 
herein, means the separate account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Beneficiary pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the Administration 
Arrangement, to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(e)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Netherlands Grant Agreement;
(f)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, Section 
6.02 (except paragraph (a) thereof), 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.05, and the second sentence of 
Section 5.01, are deleted; and 
(g)
in Sections 2.01 and 6.02, the term "Association" shall include also the 
Bank acting in its own capacity. 
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and subject to the 
receipt of the funds to be made available to the Administrator pursuant to the 
Administration Arrangement, a grant in the amount of one million United States Dollars 
($1,000,000) not exceeding one million seven hundred fifty thousand Netherlands 
Guilders (DFL 1,750,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the beneficiary and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Beneficiary may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special account in Bank of Albania on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the relevant provisions referred to 
in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary 
Page  3
of such
later date.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Representatives
Section 3.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Development Credit Agreement shall have become effective 
pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Minister of Finance of the Beneficiary is designated as 
representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 3.03. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 3.04. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
NETHERLANDS MINISTER FOR
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
By /s/ Jane Loos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Grant Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants, services,       700,000        100%
    study tours, and
    training under Part A
    of the Project
Page  4
(2) Goods under Part A of
    the Project                   50,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Unallocated                  250,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 1,000,000
                               =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:  (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount at the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  5
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
