CREDIT NUMBER 2795 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Agro-Processing Development Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated :/<   e m6er9 , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2795 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated .)re ro4be r -/1 , 1995, between ALBANIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from  the Netherlands Minister for
Development Cooperation (the Minister) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Association as the Administrator on behalf of the Minister; and
(C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by Rural Commercial Bank (RCB)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to RCB a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and RCB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.


﻿2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "APD" means the Agro-Processing Department within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food of the Borrower;
(b) "Beneficiary" means any individual, private enterprise, farmer or farmers'
association who is either engaged in or intent to engage (as a result of Sub-loan) in
agriculture sector activities, including processing, marketing, distribution, service and
production activities to which RCB proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of RCB dated October 6, 1995;
(d) "ILU" means the independent lending unit within the Rural Commercial
Bank established pursuant to the decision of the board of directors dated June 14, 1995;
(e) "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Borrower;
(f) "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(g) "Operational Guidelines" mean the guidelines, satisfactory to the
Association, containing the administrative, promotion, appraisal and supervision criteria
for Sub-loans to be followed by RCB;
(h) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and
Rural.Commercial Bank (RCB), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
(i) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 5, 1995
and June 19, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association;
(j) "RCB" means Rural Commercial Bank of the Borrower established pursuant
to license no. 4 of Bank of Albania dated September 23, 1993;
(k) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(1) "Statement of General Policy" means the statement of lending and investment
policy approved by the board of supervisors of RCB on May 2, 1995, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;


﻿3
(M) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds
of the Credit to a Beneficiary by RCB for a Sub-project;
(n) "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 9(b) of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement;
(o) "Sub-project" means a specific project, to be carried out by a Beneficiary
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(p) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "Subsidiary Loan" mean, respectively, the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and RCB pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time and the loan made
pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(q) "TSU" means the Technical Services Unit of APD.
ARTICLE I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i)
amounts paid (or, if the Association shad so agree, to be paid) by RCB on account of
withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of
works, goods and services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank of Albania on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿4
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2015 shall be


﻿5
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined
by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above,
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. RCB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)     shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative


﻿6
and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Part of the Project; and
(ii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
cause RCB to perform all its obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable RCB to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph (1) of Schedule I to
this Agreement to RCB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and RCB, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, and which shall include that:
(i)     the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be
denominated in Dollars;
(ii)    RCB shall pay interest on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to
LIBOR plus 0.5%, calculated annually, in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Association;
(iii)   the Subsidiary loan shall be repaid over a period not to exceed
10 years; and
(iv)    the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by RCB
shall be equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal) of the value of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account or paid out
of the Special Account on account of the Sub-loans.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿7
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary actions required on its part
for:
(a) the preparation of a financial restructuring and privatization plan for RCB
satisfactory to the Association not later than December 31, 1996, and the implementation
of the said plan thereafter; and
(b) the maintenance of APD and TSU with staffing and functions acceptable to
the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish
to the Association, on or about June 30, 1997: (i) a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and (ii) a strategy for the promotion of private farmers'
associations; and
(c) review with the Association, by July 31, 1997, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report and the strategy referred to in paragraphs (b) (i) and
(ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for
the future operation of the Project; and
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.


﻿8
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set fbrth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the
Project shall be carried out by RCB pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project .or any
part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿9
(i) maintain or cause to be maintainzd, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a) RCB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that RCB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Charter and the Statement of General Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
operations or the financial condition of RCB or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement


﻿10
(d) The Borrower and any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RCB or for the suspension of its
operations.
(e)    (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Netherlands
Grant Agreement.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation
or termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional evecs are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and RCB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and RCB under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Netherlands Grant
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement.


﻿11
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by RCB, and
is legally binding upon RCB in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and RCB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and RCB in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿12
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ALBANIA
By  Isi      *
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By //J           LO.S
cAi v Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in           to be
Category                  SDR Equivalent)         Financed
(1) Sub-loans under             3,400,000      100%
Part B of the
Project
(2) Goods under                   105,000      100% of foreign
Part A of the                               expenditures,
Project                                     100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'                   70,000      100%
services, study
tours and training
under Part A of the
Project
(4) Refunding of                  420,000      Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                     of this Agreement


﻿14
(5) Unallocated                   105,000
TOTAL                            4,100,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
4. The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures for: (a) Sub-loans under Category (1) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule not exceeding $200,000 equivalent each; and
(b) contacts for goods and consultants' services, study tours and training under Category
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph I of this Schedule not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the development of agro-processing
sector of the Borrower and to help improve the conditions for financing its restructuring
through the financial sector in order to improve marketing of farm outputs and
availability of food products to the urban population.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Entrepreneurs Support
Provision of expert assistance, training and equipment to assist:
(a) Beneficiaries in the preparation and implementation of Sub-projects,
in the implementation of such Sub-projects and in strengthening the institutional
capacity of the private agriculture enterprises, entrepreneurs, farmers and farmers'
associations;
b) TSU, APD and local technical institutions, including the Food
Research Institute, the Agriculture and Food Design Institute, the Albanian Dairy
Association and the Quality Control Laboratories, in strengthening their institutional
capacity; and
(c) RCB in the appraisal and supervision of Sub-projects.
Pat: Financing for the Agro-processing Sector
Provision of Sub-loans by RCB to Beneficiaries for Sub-projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B,
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Under Part A of the Project
(a)    International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and $780,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)    National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and $170,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.


﻿17
2.     Under Part B of the Project
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract
shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts thereof and of the quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them.
]artD: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section I, Parts B and C.1(a) of this Schedule; and (b) the first two
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.l(b) of this
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A: Under Part A of the Project
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the


﻿18
Association, or (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
art.B: Under Part B of the Project
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, RCB shall review
and supervise the contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less per contract.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Sub-projects and Part A of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Association
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof. Such
expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Association shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $800,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.


﻿20
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be fmnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or


﻿21
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are
modified as follows:
(1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (h) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(3) The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving
of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in subparagraph 10 (c) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any portion of the
Credit: (i) have received no applications or requests permitted under
subparagraphs (a) cr (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) lave denied any such
applications or requests, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals or to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(4)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


