Document of
The World Bank                               FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3472-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP!'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $100 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
May 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thailand Baht (B)
B 1            -   US$0.0435
B 1 million   =   US$43,478
US$1          =   B 23
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =  3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =  0.39 miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                    =  0.28 US gallon (gal)
=  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =  1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
=  0.98 British long-tons (lg ton)
= 1 million gram
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC        -  Asphalt Concrete
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
AEC       -  Asian Engineering Consultants Corp.
DOH       -  Department of Highways
ETO       -  Express Transport Organization
LBI       -  Louis Berger International Inc.
MOC       -  Ministry of Communications
MOI       -  Ministry of Interior  .
NESDB     -  National Economic and Social Development Board
TPU       -  Transport Planning Unit
VOC       -  vehicle operating costs
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summa:_y
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          US$100 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:           20 years including 6 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The project will finance:  construction and improvement
of about 1,000 km of provincial roads; strengthening and
rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of paved national and
provincial roads; sector and project preparation studies,
including engineering studies; and technical assistance.
The sector and project preparation studies include a review
of the efficiency of intercity and rural bus transport and
preparation of future road projects. Technical assistance
will be provided to the Department of Highways for further
improvements of road maintenance and to the Ministry of
Communications for special transport sector studies. Under
the project, the Government will also draw up an Action Plan
on fuel pricing and road user taKation. Farmers and people
living in rural areas will be the investments- main
beneficiaries. The project is economically well justified,
and there are no undue project risks. Expected overall
economic rate of return on investment is about 20%.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:/a
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)…
A. Construction/improvement of
provincial roads, including
supervision                       43.30    34.70    78.00
B. Strengthening/rehabilitation
of paved roads, including
supervision                       29.55    23.45    53.00
C. Sector and project preparation
studies                            1.50      0.50      2.00
D.  Technical assistance                0.17      0.70     0.87
E.  Right of way                        2.70      -        2.70
Base cost (mid '83 prices)        77.22    59.35   136.57
F. Contingency allowances
1.  Physical                       7.70      5.96    13.66
2.  Price                          8.93      7.44    16.37
Subtotal F                        16.63    13.40    30.03
Total cost of project                93.85    72.75   166.60 /b
Front-end fee on loan                 -        0.25      0.25
Total financing required             93.85    73.00   166.85
Financing Plan:
Government                          66.85      -        66.85
IBRD                                27.00    73.00   100.00
Total                             93.85    73.00   166.85
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY        1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual         2.0   14.0   37.0   37.0   10.0
Cumulative    2.0   16.0   53.0   90.0  100.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Expected overall rate of return on investments
is about 20%.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4361-TH, dated May 17, 1983.
Map:             IBRD No. 15195R
/a Including taxes.
7i Total cost of project net of taxes is US$150 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOE'S
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $100 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Second Provincial Roads
Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years, including 6 years grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on
September 18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated,
and an economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic
Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH), which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal
with the problems, was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September
1980 and issued on January 8, 1981. At present, a further economic report
is in draft and will be discussed with the Government in May and issued in
July 1983. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political pr-ocess in Thailand has
broadened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by
frequent and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the
1977 general elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater
political stability and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have con-
tinued to take place, reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of
political parties, military and business leaders, and technocrats, which
have governed the country for the past five years. However, only one change
in Prime Minister has occurred during this period. General Prem
Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime Minister in March 1980 and has been
successful in mobilizing support for a major program of economic structural
adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1981-86.  Senior civil
servants supporting this program were given key positions in the public
sector. A broad public consensus on national policy priorities has been
maintained.



- 2 -
4.        National elections were again held on April 18, 1983, following
the dissolution of Parliament by royal decree at the request of the Prime
Minister. The elections were conducted three days before the automatic
lapsing of certain transitional provisions attached to the 1978
Constitution. These provisions had been designed to ensure that, during a
transitional five-year period, serving military, civilian and other non-
elected officials could continue to play a major stabilizing role in both
the legislative and executive branches of government through their appoint-
ment to the powerful 225 Seat Senate or to Cabinet posts. The Constitution
envisaged that elections conducted after April 21, 1983, when these provi-
sions expired, would be based on provincial winner-take-all system, likely
to consolidate the position of the larger, better organized political
.parties in the 324 Seat House of Representatives, and to introduce greater
political discipline. The April 18 elections were accordingly conducted
under the existing unitary constituency rules. Candidates from 10 parties
were elected to Parliament. No party secured an outright majority but the
three leading parties won 221 seats, and subsequently strengthened their
position through the absorption of smaller parties or the affiliation of
independent representatives. Genereal Prem succeeded in forming a new four-
party coalition government which includes two of the three leading parties
and has the backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected represen-
tatives. The new Cabinet-was announced on May 8. Prospects for the
continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms are thus good.
Past Economic Trends
5.        A number of positive features have contributed to Thailand's rapid
socio-economic development over the past two decades. These include the
continued availability of reasonably fertile land and the relatively equit-
able distribution of such land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to economic
incentives, provision of infrastructure by the Government, the openness of
the economy which improved the competitiveness of Thai products, and the
dynamism of the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Thus, the
1960s and most of the 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic develop-
ment in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4-5% per
capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely on
an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response to
export opportunities was a major factor contributing to these developments
as well as to a sustained growth of exports. An increase in the investment
level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid industrial growth.
Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keeping the debt
service ratio quite low. Exports grew at a consistently high rate. The
incidence of poverty was reduced substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to
about 31% by 1975/76, although significant regional disparities continue to
exist, with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the high-
est per capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecomr
munications, schools, public health and other services than the other three
regions. Still, substantial overall progress was made in meeting the basic
needs of the Thai people. Major gains were made in recent years in reducing



- 3 -
the annual population growth rate from 3% during the 1960s to an estimated
2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth two decades later).
Natural gas was discovered offshore and has started to come on stream.
Recently, oil and gas have also been discovered onshore, and hopes are high
that these finds will turn out to be substantial.
6.         Since the mid-1970s Thailand-s developmrent problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A rela-
tively high rate of overall growth was maintainee (8.6% per annum between
1975 and 1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 5.8% in 1980) but: this was accompanied by
.accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing
dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977
and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government
deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export
growth, the current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and
1978, but it amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979 and 6.2% of GDP in 1980;
consequently there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low
external debt.
7.         Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to
the changing internal and external conditions, tut, beginning in 1979,
policy adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They
included sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and electri-
city; measures to increase government revenues; amendments to the usury
laws, which permitted an increase in interest raites; and the introduction of
regulations to increase financial stability and exercise more monetary
restraint. In the second half of 1980, the Government began to give serious
attention to developing a longer-term comprehensive program for the economy,
and continued to implement necessary, but politically contentious, economic
decisions. In October 1980 price controls were lifted on 29 of 36 goods.
In the same month the Government started on a reform of the tariff struc-
ture, reducing import duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by between
10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen out of
line with international prices, causing domestic shortages, were increased
by 60%. In a number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum prices
were increased further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half
times as high as at the start of 1979. During the first half of 1981,
charges for other public services (water, transport, communications) were
increased substantially (most by at least 50%).  During this period, the
Government also introduced various fiscal measures designed to contain the
central government deficit.
8.         Once the Government had decided to iriplement a broad structural
adjustment program, the state of the Thai economy has been changing quickly,
in response to the rapid deterioration in the external economic environment
and to the changes in domestic policies.  After the earlier overheating was



- 4 -
overcome in 1981, the economy weakened significantLy in 1982. Inflation was
greatly reduced, with consumers' prices increasing by only about 5% in 1982.
Export prices declined, and the decrease in inflationary expectations led to
an inventory adjustment.  Private fixed investments, which had already been
stagnating for several years, are estimated to have dropped by 14% in 1982,
which brought them, in real terms, below the 1977 level (17.8% of 1977 GDP,
but only 12.7% of 1982 GDP).  The latest 1982 estimates for growth in pro-
duction and real income are about 4% for industry, 0.5% for agriculture
(because of unfavorable weather), 4.5% for GDP and only about 1% in real
national income.  Associated with the slowing of international price level
increases and slower domestic economic growth was a reduced rate of
inflation (13% in 1981 and 5% in 1982). The balance of payments current
account deficit was also considerably smaller in 1982 than in recent years.
Partly because of a high carry-over level of agricultural exportables into
the year, export volume continued to grow at a very rapid rate (17%).
Because of a large fall in export prices, export values, however, increased
by only 7%. At the same time, given the squeeze on inventories and private
fixed investments, imports declined by 14% in volume and 7% in value.
Consequently, the current account deficit was reduced from about $2.3 bil-
lion (7.1% of GDP) in 1981 to $1.2 billion (3.2% of GDP) in 1982. This is
well below the trend assumed for the Fifth Five Year Plan and the structural
adjustment program. However, this deviation from the trend is clearly
related to the present recessionary tendencies in the economy, and as the
economy revives (even if this goes together with some recovery in the terms
of trade) pressures on the balance of payments would tend to recur. As in
other countries, the fiscal deficit has widened considerably in FY82.
Compared to actual FY81 and budgeted FY82 deficits of 2.5-3% of GDP, the
actual FY82 deficit is estimated at over 5% of GDP. The increase can be
fully attributed to shortfalls on the revenue side, which in turn can at
least partly be related to lower inflation, lower domestic activity and
especially lower imports.
Development Prospects and Constraints
9.         For the remainder of the decade, many of the positive features
which contributed to Thailand-s rapid socio-economic development over the
past two decades will continue to do so. The recent developments have,
however, demonstrated that the Thai economy is not immune from adverse
international developments, such as low international economic growth, high
interest rates, and declining terms of trade, resulting in lower domestic
growth and a poor investment climate. What is more, fiscal measures have as
yet fallen short of reestablishing balance in the Government's accounts. In
response to these challenges, the Government has searched intensively for
policy alternatives which will correct the fiscal and external imbalances
without undue consequences for the growth of income and employment,
especially for the poor. Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year
Plan, which covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major
(and interrelated) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national



security; growth is seen as a derived rather than a. primary objective. The
Government aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of
the Plan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, but
mainly through medium-term structural adjustments which improve production
incentives and increase the efficiency of the economy, and improve the
economy's competitiveness, both in the external and domestic markets.
10.       The implications of the recent slowdown f~or longer-term growth and
for the achievement of the Fifth Plan targets will be assessed in the forth-
coming economic report. The economic developments of the last 15-18 months
make earlier projections for Thailand look overly optimistic, in the light
of a revised outlook for world economy, for world trade and for commodity
prices. This affects the outlook for Thai exports in terms of volume as
well as prices, and thereby also the country's debt servicing capacity. A
critical evaluation of these and related factors requires a reduction in the
target rates for GDP growth, investment and government revenue mobilization,
with GDP growth for the Plan period as a whole now projected at about 5.5%
p.a.  While this is lower than past average economic growth rates, Thailand
would continue to outperform most other developing countries in the
difficult 1980s.
11.       To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. An IMF two-
year standby program started in June 1981. However, in FY82 an increased
budgetary deficit in the wake of revenue shortfalLs caused a nonobservance
of the subceiling on net credit to the Government. Under the circumstances,
it was decided not to continue this arrangement arid a new 14-month standby
in the amount of SDR 272 million was approved by the Fund in November 1982.
With regard to the Bank, the Government has sought assistance in further
developing and implementing the structural adjustaent loans. The first
such loan was approved by the Executive Directors on March 2, 1982; the
second loan was approved on March 1, 1983.
Financing Requirements
12.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they
are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater efforts will
be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the
past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14%
for 1978 to 1980), is low compared to other deveLoping countries at similar
levels of development.  Recently the Government has taken steps to revise
the tax structure and to improve collections. Further tax measures are
planned, particularly in the area of improved taK administration and struc-
ture. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has



- 6 -
already improved in the wake of tariff increases since 1980, is expected to
continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing policies.
13.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and
energy sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macro-
economic projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain
at levels about $1.5 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP
to about 2% by 1990. Even the realization of this target will require large
amounts of external borrowing, totalling about $30 billion over the period
1983-90, of which about two thirds is expected to be in the form of public
and publicly guaranteed debt.  Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, total debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods
and nonfactor services will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to 19.9% in 1986. Given
the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of
agricultural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
14.       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs
to meet a larger part of Thailand-s growing resource requirements. The rest
has been financed through syndicated loans and bond issues. The Government
has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and approve
all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is improv-
ing its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to keep
track of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank Group,
have in recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to
Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits, but low foreign
exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TRAILAND
15.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1983, had received 73 IBRD loans (including
two third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$2,878.3 million in loans and $124.8 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,270.9 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No
IDA credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.



16.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 30% for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 15% for transportation; 10% for telecommunications; 5% for
urban development; 6% for education; 3% for industry; 1% for population/
health/nutrition; and 5% for structural adjustment lending. Overall imple-
mentation of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past
five years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to
24.9% in 1981. These rates compare well with other countries. In 1981, for
example, the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and
Morocco, were 17.9% and 11.7%, respectively.
17.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infra-
structure projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to
a program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 63% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 25%
of lending operations since FY76. The design cf projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative pro-jects to assist farmers
outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural
extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limit:ed to three in education,
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In
recent years education, population and low-income housing projects have
accounted for about 12% of the program.
18.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support
the Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year
Plan for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of
poverty alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income dis-
parities; and (b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy
through the intensification of agriculture, efficient development of the
industrial sector, promotion of domestic energy conservation and development,
increased public resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity
in the public sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank
assistance in Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral
lending, especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at
strengthening the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.



19.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agricul-
ture and rural development will seek to generate employment and income
growth particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of
of the country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming
at continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication.  Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development: for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sector will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
20.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,411.9 million as of March 31, 1983. As of December 31,
1981, Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 12.9% of
total debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of
total debt service payments amounted to 6.8% in 1981. This is not excessive
in view of Thailand's modest overall external debt (19.7% of GDP in 1981)
and the declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt
service in total debt service.
21.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made fifteen commitments totalling
$110.9 million in ten projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as the
olefins complex and downstream petrochemical sector, and projects in the
agricultural sector. A tantalum processing project, a palm oil project and
a project to expand a glass manufacturing plant are being considered by IFC
management.



- 9 -
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTDR
Transport System
22.       General.  Since the mid-sixties, the Thai economy, as a result of
the strong showing of the agricultural sector, grew at a rapid pace and gener-
ated a high demand for transport.  To accommodate this demand, the Goverrnment
undertook large transport investments (in particular for road infrastructure)
and helped to create a generally competitive transport industry. Today, all
Changwats are interlinked with a good communicaticns network, and transport
services have penetrated the majority of previously remote rural areas. By
comparable international standards, the country has a good transport system,
though there is continued scope for further development.
23.       The country's transport is multimodal, consisting in order of
importance of road, inland water, maritime and aiir transport.  Road transport
is the predominant mode.  Railway and waterborne !:ransport have also devel-
oped, but at a more modest rate.  Roads (excluding urban traffic) carry about
77% of all ton-km, followed by rail with 11%, and 6% for each inland waterways
and coastal shipping.  In passenger transport (again excluding urban traffic),
roads carry about 93% of passenger-km, against some 7% carried by rail. Dur-
ing the 1980s, the transport sector is expected to continue its expansionary
course in step or slightly ahead of GDP growth, with road transport consoli-
dating its relative position.
24.       Road Transport.  The public road network totals about 150,000 km,
consisting of about 14,300 km of national (primary) roads, 28,400 km of
provincial (secondary) roads, and about 106,000 km of rural (tertiary) roads.
Almost 100% of national roads are paved. About 16,700 km of provincial roads
are improved (of which 70% are paved), and about 11,700 km are still unim-
proved. An increasing length of older national and (paved) provincial roads
requires pavement rehabilitation and strengthening. There is also a great
need to upgrade the unimproved provincial roads, virtually all of which serve
as rural access roads. Both types of investments are covered under this
project.
25.       Motorized traffic on all public roads has steadily increased in the
sixties and seventies. About 93% of the nonurbaii traffic is concentrated on
the national and provincial roads, where traffic volumes on some sections
exceed 10,000 vehicles per day. Annual traffic growth ranged between 7% and
15%. Traffic on national and provincial roads is projected to grow at a con-
tinuing high rate, about 6% p.a. on average, during the eighties.
26.       Rail Transport.  Rail transport is provided by the State Railway of
Thailand (SRT), a state enterprise. Its network totals about 3,800 route-km
of meter gauge lines, of which all, except some 90 km, are single track.
3,200 km are classified as main lines and 600 km as branch lines. A new line
of about 100 km is nearing completion, linking the Eastern Seaboard (Sattahip
port) with the Eastern Line. SRT is operationally efficient but financially
weak. It continues to incur substantial losses and therefore it's role in



- 10 -
the transport subsector needs to be redefined. A Sixth Railway Project is
under preparation to help redress this situation.
27.       Inland Waterways Transport.  Thailand's inland water transport of
commercial significance is concentrated on about 1,300 km of rivers and canals
between the mouth of the Chao Phrya and the Northern Region. To fully utilize
the system s potential for low-cost transport, the shallow river sections are
being deepened with Bank assistance (under the Inland Waterways and Coastal
Ports Project - Loan 1889-TH) to expand inland water transport and to make
better use of this low cost transport mode. The same project also includes
construction of two new river ports and promotion of a new barge design and
operation.
28.       Maritime Transport.  Domestic maritime transport relies on some
forty shallow draft ports, many of which also double as fishing ports. Most
are of purely local, and a few are of regional importance, and many are rudi-
mentary. The ports are concentrated along the southern peninsula and publicly
or privately owned. Despite continuous improvements of land transport along
the coasts, domestic maritime transport remains an important component of Thai
transport. The majority of ports are riverine with severe draft restrictions
at the rivers mouths and subject to continuous siltation. Frequent mainte-
nance dredging, and in some cases capital dredging, is required. The Harbor
Department s capacity to perform these functions is; being improved with Bank
assistance (under the Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project).
29.       There are presently two commercial deepwater ports for dry cargo:
the Port of Bangkok on the Chao Phrya and the former naval facility at
Sattahip on the Eastern Seaboard. The Port of Bangkok consists of the Klong
Toei wharves, operated by the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT), a state enter-
prise, and other privately owned and managed facilities. Construction of two
southern deepwater ports at Songkhla and Phuket is scheduled under the current
Five-Year Plan. Virtually all of Thailand's imports and exports presently use
the Port of Bangkok, except petroleum products and those agricultural bulk
exports which pass through Eastern Seaboard locations. During the 1970s, the
volume of Thailand's foreign trade has grown at a rate of 10% p.a. To ensure
adequate port capacity, the Government launched a port development program
with Bank assistance (Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project Loan 1918-TH). In
addition, the Government has decided to build in the mid-80s another deep-sea
port, at Laem Chabang, to serve as a nucleus for planned industrial
development on the Eastern Seaboard.
30.       Air Transport.  International and domestic air transport are
centered at the Bangkok Airport Don Muang. Airport utilization is high, and
works are in progress or scheduled on a new runway, passenger terminal and
aircraft parking bays. Four other airports (Chiang 14ai, Phuket, Hat Yai and
U-Tapao) are also open to international traffic. There are an additional 20
or so airports receiving scheduled domestic flights.



- 11 -
Sector Management
31.       The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy, sectoral planning and coordination, regulation and overall investment
budgeting. Thailand-s central planning agency, the National Economic and
Social Development Board (NESDB) also participates increasingly in sector
policy formulaton. Among MOC's principal departments are the Department of
Highways (DOH), Harbor Department and Land Transport Department. As an excep-
tion to the rule, rural road functions fall under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Interior (MOI) and its departments, and not MOC. At the recomr
mendation of and with financial assistance by the Bank, a Transport Planning
Unit (TPU) was set up in 1974 in MOC to provide the Ministry with the tech-
nical expertise for transport planning, coordination and policy formulation.
Sector Issues and Policies
32.       State Enterprises.  Since the construction of the first railway line
at the turn of the century, the Government has established a strong presence
in the sector. The Government finances, constructs and maintains all major
transport infrastructure, and participates directly in the transport industry
through a number of large state enterprises. The weak financial performance
of public sector enterprises in transport has become a serious problem for the
Government. In 1982, for example, four Government-owned enterprises (in
transport) incurred a combined loss of close to B 1,500 million. There is an
4ncreasing perception that public enterprises should be made subject to rules
of financial discipline similar to those in the private sector. An important
step in the direction of improved financial management will be the transforma-
tion of the State Railway's main line operations, under the proposed Sixth
Railway Project, into a commercially oriented enterprise. In addition,
Government is preparing a comprehensive program of efficiency-enhancing
measures for state enterprises under its Structural Adjustment program which
the Bank is supporting through two structural adjustment loans. Further, a
Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport is included in this project, which
will address the performance of the Government-owned Transport Co., and a
Bank-financed Trucking Industry Study is underway (Provincial Roads Project,
Loan 2035-TH), which includes a review of the Covernment's Express Transport
Organization (ETO). Upon completion, the studies will be reviewed by the
Government and Bank to determine follow-up action.
33.       Economic Regulation.  Except for ETO monopolies, which are limited
in scope, trucking operates without economic restrictions. Markets are open,
and services and rates are determined under market conditions. Inland water-
way transport and coastal shipping also operate free of economic restrictions.
Rail freight services on branch lines are subject to operational restrictions,
and all freight tariffs, for years below average cost, are subject to Cabinet
approval. Rail passenger transport falls under economic restrictions similar
to rail freight transport. Intercity bus transport provided under the Trans-
port Company franchise is also regulated. The Land Transport Department con-
trols bus route and industry capacity, and proposals for changes in levels of
tariffs are subject to Cabinet approval. Intercity bus transport with a 90%
share of private capital in the fleet, is, however, not subsidized by the
Government.



- 12 -
34.       Fuel Conservation.  A primary objective of the Fifth Five-Year
Development Plan (1982-86) is to restructure the domestic economy toward
greater energy efficiency and level off the import of oil products. A
significant burden of restructuring falls upon the transport sector, which
consumes about 40% of petroleum energy used in the country. Within the
transport sector (excluding international aviation and shipping), road
transport uses about 95% of all fuel energy, followed by rail with slightly
more than 2%, inland waterways transport with about 1%, and domestic coastal
shipping and aviation making up the remaining 1-2%. Within the road sector,
about 75% of fuel is used up by traffic on national and provincial roads,
about 5% by traffic on rural roads and about 20% by urban Bangkok traffic.
35.       The Transport Planning Unit (TPU) in MOC, completed a transport
sector energy study last year to rationalize energy policies in the transport
sector. The study recommends to focus energy conservation policies on improv-
ing fuel efficiency of road transport; to maintain current gasoline price
levels in real terms; to gradually raise the price of diesel fuel up to the
level of gasoline; and to encourage the shift of road transport demand to
other modes, in particular rail, only if there are overall economic justifi-
cations and not solely energy-related reasons. Regular gasoline retails at
B 11.10/1, while diesel retails at B 6.99/1, or about 37% less, and both
prices exceed the respective opportunity cost. Under the two Structural
Adjustment Loans No. 2097-TH and 2256-TH, provision was made for the drafting
of an Action Plan for energy pricing by December 31, 1983. During negotia-
tions for this project, it was agreed that the Action Plan will specifically
deal with fuel pricing in transport and road user taxation. In the interim, a
draft program for fuel conservation in road transport, including fuel pricing
proposals, has already been completed.
36.       Road User Taxation.  Road expenditures are financed from general
budgetary revenues and foreign loans and grants. Specific tax collections
from the national and provincial roads sector (road user charges), which are
not earmarked, are about 67% of aggregate total expenditures for national
and provincial roads, and about 202% of the aggregate marginal infrastructure
cost. Passenger cars, light buses, light trucks and heavy buses cover their
marginal cost, but heavy trucks do not. Necessary revisions in road user
taxation will be reviewed in the context of the Action Plan described in
para. 35.
37.       Traffic Safety.  Traffic accidents and fatalities constitute a grow-
ing and recognized socio-economic problem in Thailand. In 1980, for example,
about 4,500 fatalities were reported, with an estimated 50% on national and
provincial roads. In recognition of the pressing problem, the Department of
Highways, with ADB financing, commissioned a Traffic Law Enforcement Study
which includes a review of the adequacy of laws and regulations governing
traffic safety, accident reporting procedures, Highway Police activities and
the interlinkages of highway design and safety. The study, which is completed
in draft final, will be continued through monographs on selected safety
issues. Further, DOH is considering initiating a study to prepare a "Trslfic
Safety Program" for national and provincial roads. Japanese assistance to
finance this study is being explored.



- 13 -
Investments
38.       During the Third Five-Year Development Plan in 1972-76, total
public sector investments in transport were about: B 21 billion in current
prices, and under the Fourth Plan for 1977-81, the expenditures declined
slightly to about B 19 billion. In both Plan periods, road investments
accounted for about 80% of the sector's investment expenditures. Within the
roads subsector, rural roads increased their share from about 10% in 1972-76
to about 20% in 1977-81, as a result of the Government-s increased emphasis
on rural transport. In fact, since a large percantage of provincial roads
carries primarily local rural traffic, the infrastructure investments for
rural transport are much higher.
39.       The Fifth Development Plan for 1982-86 earmarks provisionally about
B 75 billion for transportation, though it is expected that the final figure
will be reduced because of fiscal constraints.   The road subsector plan
(1982-86) provides for total investments of abovut B 35 billion. About
B 7.7 billion (22%) are earmarked for national roads, B 12 billion (34%) for
provincial roads, and B 15 billion (44%) for rural roads. Thus, the trend
towards increased expenditures on rural transport will be continued. A
large percentage of the proposed investments for national roads is aimed at
rehabilitating existing roads, which is consistent with the Fifth Plan
objective of giving prioritv to the preservation and maintenance of roads.
In case of the provincial roads, the focus is o-n paving and upgrading of
about 6,000 km of "unimproved" roads, a program primarily benefitting rural
areas. This project has been designed accordingly.
Past Bank Lending in the Transport Sector
40.       The Bank has been involved in all transport modes, except civil
aviation, and helped finance 18 transportation projects.  The total amount
of loans (including cancellations) was $501.6 miillion. The largest recipient
of loan funds was the Department of Highways, with $296.6 million. Next in
line were the State Railway of Thailand, with $68.7 million, the Port
Authoritv of Thailand, with $67.3 million, the Harbour Department, with
$53 million, and the Ministry of Interior, with $16 million for Bangkok
traffic improvement. Twelve earlier projects vere satisfactorily completed.
Six projects, including the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH) and the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH), are under implementation. Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been circulated on the first four
highway projects, the Fourth Railway Project, and the Third Port Project.
The main comments on the highway projects concerned overestimation of con-
struction costs and underestimation of traffic growth. It appeared that the
appraisals had not fully anticipated the rapid development of domestic con-
tractors and the explosive growth of road transport. Particular points of
interest in the PPAR of the Fourth Railway Project were the underestimation
of passenger traffic and the financial difficulties of SRT, both linked to
Government delays in approving tariff increases. A main comment of the PPAR
for the port project was that PAT could have iinanced a larger part of
investments without detriment to its financial health.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
41.       The project was identified by DOH under, and as a follow-up to,
the Study of National and Provincial Roads, which was carried out by the US
consulting firm Louis Berger International, Inc. (LBI) in a joint venture
with a Thai firm, Asian Engineering Consultants Corporation, and financed
under the Sixth Highway Project. Final economic analyses and detailed
engineering for the project's first-year construction program have been
completed by LBI and several Thai engineering firms or DOH, respectively.
Completion of final economic analyses, by IBI, and of detailed engineering
by Thai consultants, of the remaining civil works, is scheduled for 1983-84.
The project was appraised in January 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from May 2-5, 1983. The Thai delegation was headed by Khun
Seree Suebsanguan. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Second Provincial
Roads Project" (No. 4361-TH dated May 17, 1983) is being distributed separ-
ately. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
42.       The project will help advance a number of ob ,eccives discussed in
the transport sector in the Fifth National Economic and Social Development
Plan: (a) support rural and agricultural development by improving
provincial roads, which form the basic framework for rural transport; (b)
restore and preserve existing infrastructure by rehabilitating and
strengthening deteriorated SecLilvub of the national and provincial roads
systems; (c) initiate measures to conserve fuel, and improve the efficiency
of private and state transport enterprises through the proposed Action Plan
on fuel pricing and road user taxes and the proposed bus transport study.
Description
43.       The project consists of:
(a) construction and improvement, including supervision by consultants,
of about 1,000 km of provincial roads;
(b) strengthening or rehabilitation, including supervision by
consultants, of about 1,000 km of paved national and provincial
roads;
(c) sector and project preparation studies, including engineering, for
future road projects, by consultants; and
(d)  technical assistance, by consultants, to the DOH to help improve
the programming and implementation of road maintenance and to the
MOC (TPU) to assist in transport sector and policy studies.



- 15 -
44.       The provincial roads to be constructed or improved will follow the
alignments of existing low standard roads or tracks, but surfaces will be
improved and, where needed, the road bed will be raised and widened, drainage
improved and permanent bridges and culverts built.  About 60% of the roads
will receive a bituminous paved surface and the remainder gravel. About
700 km of the project roads, out of 770 km for which final economic analyses
and detailed engineering have been completed, will constitute the project's
first year s construction program. Final economic studies and detailed
engineering for the remainder of the roads have been scheduled to be com-
pleted October 1984. Only roads with economic rates of return, based on
detailed engineering, of no less than 12% will be eligible for financing
under the project.
45.       The paved roads to be strengthened or rehabilitated are from a pool
of high-traffic sections which are already suffering from deformation and
failures. This project component would be the first large scale project to
restore and strengthen deteriorated sections of highways built some 10-15
years ago, to prevent otherwise costlier reconstruction and to lower road
user costs. Preliminary identification and eva.luation of these roads has
been completed. Final economic studies and detailed engineering are sche-
duled to be completed in groups by October and December 1983, and by June
and September 1984, respectively. Pavement designs will be based on pro-
jected axle loads from traffic updates and surveys. Some road sections will
also be considered for improvements of drainage and road widening. Preli-
minary economic returns calculated for some eligible project roads are in the
order of over 20%. There are, however, some uncertainties about the rate of
future pavement deterioration and failure, and accordingly about the project
benefits. To guard, despite careful analysis, against premature investment,
the minimum return of a road (based on detailed engineering) to be funded
under the project, has therefore been set at 15%, and tests will be
performed to ensure adequte first-year returns.
46.       The project includes the following studies:  a study of Inter-city
and Rural Bus Transport (about 12 man-months) and feasibility and engineering
studies for about 1,000 km of roads for improvement and strengthening under
future projects (about 230 man-months). About 40 man-months of consultants
services are included in the project for technical assistance to the DOH to
improve the management system for maintenance equipment, and the programming
of road maintenance. In particular, the techrnical assistance component will
help to develop a regular system of field inspections and testing of pavement
strengths to establish priorities for periodic maintenance and strengthening
of pavements. The project would also finance consultants services (12 man-
months) to assist MOC (TPU) in carrying out in-house transport sector and
policy studies.
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.       Total project cost, gross of local taxes and including contingency
allowances (about 22% of total cost) and front end fee on Bank loan, is
estimated at B 3,838 million or US$166.85 million equivalent. The estimated
average costs per km, excluding (including) contingency allowances are:
(a) for construction and improvement of roads, US$76,000 (US$93,000); (b)
for strengthening or rehabilitation of paved roads, US$51,000 (US$62,000);



- 16 -
(c) for supervision by consultants, US$2,000 (US$2,400); and (d) for detailed
engineering by consultants for construction and improvement of roads for
future projects, US$2,200 (US$2,600). The costs of consultants' services
for detailed engineering are normally on a "per road" (or per km) basis.
For other services, the costs are on a "per man-month" basis. The estimated
costs per man-month, excluding contingency allowances, for Thai consultants'
staff, on supervision and feasibility studies, average about US$3,000; the
estimated man-month costs, for such services by foreign consultants,
including salaries, social costs, overseas allowance, overhead and fees,
average about US$9,000 (US$11,000 including overseas travel and expenses).
For specialized technical assistance services, the estimated man-month costs
for foreign consultants, including salaries, social costs, etc., average
about US$10,500 (US$13,500 including overseas travel and expenses).
48.        The project cost estimates referring to the first year's construc-
tion program (construction/improvement of 700 km of provincial roads) are
based on completed detailed engineering by consultants. The estimates
referring to all other civil works are based on preliminary engineering or
on ongoing detailed engineering by consultants. Costs of consultants'
services were estimated in accordance with updated costs of previous con-
tracts for similar works. The DOH intends to employ consultants for super-
vision of civil works but to provide virtually all the field supervisory
personnel from its own staff.
49.        Contingency allowances include 10% for physical quantities of work
and for price increases at annual rates for: (a) local costs of 7% in 1983
through 1985; and 6% in 1986 and 1987; and (b) foreign costs of 8% in 1983;
7.5% in 1984; 7% in 1985; and 6% in 1986 and 1987. The cost estimates and
contingency allowances are considered reasonable in view of: detailed
engineering being already completed for nearly half of the value of civil
works; the previous good record of the DOH and the consultants in cost esti-
mating; and their substantial recent experience with similar works. The
estimates were reviewed and agreed during loan negotiations. The foreign
exchange component of road works is estimated at about 45% when carried out
by local contractors and about 57% when carried out by foreign contractors.
In accordance with recent experience, local contractors are expected to win
all civil works contracts, and the foreign exchange component for works has
therefore been calculated at 45%.  The foreign exchange component of the
consultants' services has been calculated on the basis of the estimated
numbers of man-months of foreign and local consultants' staff to be employed;
it is estimated at 25% for supervision, 25% for studies and engineering and
80% for technical assistance.
50.        The loan of US$100 million including capitalized front-end fee, will
finance the foreign exchange cost of the project, estimated at about US$73
million, together with about US$27 million of local costs of civil works and
consultants' services, altogether about 60% of total financing required.
The remaining costs of about US$67 million will be financed by the Government
through annual budgetary allocations. During loan negotiations assurances



- 17 -
were given that the Government will make adequate budgetary provision for
this project.
The Department of Highways
51.       The DOH, in the Ministry of Communications (MOC), is responsible
for administration, planning, construction and maintenance of the national
and provincial roads. DOH-s present organization dates essentially from
1964-67. It was slightly modified in 1976, following a Highway Maintenance
Study under the Fifth Highway Project, to give greater emphasis to road
maintenance. DOHI is well-organized and well-operated, functioning as a
modern agency with considerable autonomy.
52.       About 90% of DOl construction is by contract.  The remainder is
done by force account, largely undertaken for training purposes by eight
training centers. The Thai construction industry has fully matured in the
past 15 years, and under the ongoing Sixth Highway and (first) Provincial
Roads Projects, Thai firms won all contracts in :ompetition with foreign
firms.
53.       A number of steps were taken in recent years to improve DOH-s road
maintenance capability. In particular, a Highway Maintenance Study was
carried out under the Fifth Highway Project, which formulated an eight-year
program (1979-86) to overcome the backlog of routine and periodic mainte-
nance for national and provincial roads. Also, under the Sixth Highway
Project, technical assistance has been provided to DOH for setting up an
internal hiring system for the maintenance of e(quipment.
54.       Maintenance expenditures on national and provincial roads increased
from B 234 million in 1967 to B 811 million in 1980 and B 1,462 million in
1982. The real rate of increase has been slow, and the maintenance budgets
covered only part of the requirements, about 70-80%0 in recent years.  The
budget for 1983 has been further increased to B 1,873 million representing
about 90% of requirements. Under the project, Government agreement has been
obtained on the scope of a satisfactory maintenance program during FY83-88,
and on the annual budgetary appropriations required for this purpose.
Implementation and Procurement
55.       The MOC, represented by DOlH, will be responsible for project imple-
mentation as under previous highway projects. DOH will be assisted by conr-
sultants, who will supervise the civil works, undertake sector and project
preparation studies, and provide technical assistance. All civil works will
be carried out through contracts awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding by prequalified firms in accordance with the Bank Group's
"Guidelines for Procurement," and on the advice of consultants. An average
of about 2,000 workers are expected to be directly employed for civil works
over a period of about four years starting February 1984.



- 18 -
56.       Contracts for provincial road construction/improvement are expected
to be awarded for the first year-s program of roads (comprising about 70% of
the total in the project) about February 1984, and for the remaining roads,
by about July 1985. Contracts for about one third of the roads to be
strengthened and rehabilitated will be awarded about February 1985, and for
the remainder, by about December 1985. All civil works should be completed
about the beginning of 1988. The sector and project preparation studies are
expected to be undertaken in 1984-87. The technical assistance is also
expected to be provided in 1984-87.
Disbursement
57.       Disbursements from the loan will be made on the basis of:  60% of
the total cost of construction/improvement and strengthening/rehabilitation
and 100% of the total cost of consultants' services.. Allowing for final
payments and disbursements, the closing date for the loan will be June 30,
1988. The projected disbursement profile is broadly in overall agreement
with the Regional and Bank-wide subsector profiles. It lags slightly at
first because of the somewhat lengthy Government procedures for bidding,
review and approval of contracts, both for consultants' services and for
civil works. However, in line with current performance. disbursements woulu
overtake the standard profiles by the end of the third year and eliminate
their final year's "tail". Payments are subject to internal audit by the
DOH and to audit by the Office of the Audit Council of Thailand, which
includes a Section permanently stationed in the DOH.
Environment
58.       The road works are being designed to avoid causing any significant
ecological problems such as erosion and flooding. The alignments mostly
follow existing roads, minimizing land acquisition for right-of-way and
property disturbance. Roads being constructed with gravel surfaces will be
paved, where they pass through villages, to eliminate dust. Sections of
road in areas of irrigation, near lakes, or subject to flooding, are designed
in collaboration with the Royal Irrigation Department to provide adequate
heights of embankments and sizes of drainage structures.
Economic Evaluation and Project Risks
59.       The provincial roads to be constructed or improved already carry
motorized traffic, ranging in most cases from about 50 to 1,000 aadt (annual
average daily *raffic).  In a few cases, traffic is below 50 aadt.  Projected
growth rates over the life of the investments are 4-9% p.a. Resource savings
in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and developmental
benefits, in a few cases, are the principal quantified road improvement
benefits. Depending on road classification, condition and traffic levels,
typical VOC savings are in the order of 30-50%. The population served by
the project roads are the project's main investment beneficiaries. They are
expected to receive most of the development benefits, where applicable, and



- 19 -
to share to a large extent in the vehicle operating cost savings because of
the strong competition in road transport. A typical km of project road has a
population coverage of 400-600 people, and typical VOC savings are B 0.25 mil-
lion per annum per km of road. Accordingly, the project, with a total
provincial road length of about 1,000 km, will reach up to one-half million
people, whose annual average per capita benefits generated by the project
will be about B 400-B 500.
60.       The paved roads to be strengthened and rehabilitated carry traffic
of up to about 9,000 aadt. Future traffic growth :Ls projected at about
6% p.a. on average. Savings in vehicle operating costs are the principal
benefits, and savings in road maintenance are, in a few cases, additional
benefits from the proposed investments. The VOC spread between well
maintained and badly deteriorated pavements is aboLt 30-50%. A small
percentage of the roads are also candidates for pavement widening, drainage
and some other localized works. The execution of the pavement
strengthening/rehabilitation program will benefit the private sector economy
and public finance. In the first instance, road users, operators for their
own account and the road transport industry will benefit from lower
transport cost. The agricultural sector in particular will benefit from the
project as its goods make up a high percentage of freight on the roads.
Public finance will gain through budgetary savings from the timely
rehabilitation of the project roads.
61.       The roads included in the first year's construction program have
economic returns, based on detailed engineering, of 13-50%. The preliminary
returns of the other roads are 12-95% (13% or more return for over 90% of
the roads) in case of construction and improvemen1: of provincial roads, and
over 20% in case of the (so far evaluated) strengthening and rehabilitation
of paved roads. The expected overall economic ret:urn of the project is
about 20%. All investments have been or will be tested to ensure their
timeliness.  There are no undue engineering, administrative and ecological
risks. Economic project risks (increase in capital cost and shortfall in
benefits), as evaluated under standard sensitivity tests, are well within
acceptable limits, given the reliability of project data, the competitiveness
of the construction industry and high economic rates of return required for
roads to qualify for financing under this project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special
features of the proposed project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE2GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             514.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      182.6               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA   CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   110.0        230.0     670.0                  890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        59.5        195.2     352.9                  701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27039.0       36431.0   46950.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5           13.2      14.4                   32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          100.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         52.6         70.9      89.3                 255.4                      35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    208.8         259.2      251.3                1748.0                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.7        46.2       41.9                  39.9                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.6        50.8       55.0                   56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          3.0       3.1                    3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.7          3.0       2.5                   2.3                       2.4
URBAN                                4.5          3.5       3.4                    3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.6         39.7      30.0                   31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.9         10.8       7.9                    9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1          2.8       2.0                    2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       202.9/c   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.6       39.0                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            92.0       100.0      125.0                 115.6                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     99.0       100.7       96.9/d               106.4                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.7        48.7       47.57?                54.4                      66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         1060        14.2       15.27Ti               13.9                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       13.3          7.9       4.5                    6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.3          57.9       62.5                   59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            103.0         74.6      54.8                   63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0       22.0/e                32.0                      65.6
URBAN                                 *         60.0       49.07;e               51.9                      78.9
RURAL                                 *          10.0      12.07;j                20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         17.0      40.0/f                 37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                 .,         65.0      58.07?                65.7                      75.3
RURAL                                 ..         8.0       36.07?                24.0                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7948.0      8446.8    8222.5/e               8540.4                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       4857.9/g    7045.3    1166.27e                4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1384.4       896.1      821.0/e              1047.5                     477.4
URBAN                                          176.0      525.77e                651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                 ,,     13884.8    1278.4Te               2597.6                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         31.0      44.8/e                 27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5/        5.8        5.5/e
URBAN                                5. 3TR      5.8        5.57ie
RURAL                                5.         .5.8        5.57;
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        2.4/e
URBAN                                 ..          ..        2.2/i/
RURAL                                 ..          ..        2.4/e.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 *-        18.9
URBAN                                 ..        86.1
RURAL                                 .         8. 9.0 1
_    .   _  _            _               _               _    _           _ 0



-22-                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0         81.0      82.0/d                 96.2                    104.3
MALE                  88.0        85.0       85.07d                 99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                79.0        77.0       78.O7d                92.1                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 13.0         17.0      29.0                   37.6                     41.3
MALE                  16.0        20.0       30.0                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                10.0        14.0       28.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    19.1          22.3      17.1/e                 20.8                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.2         34.7      28.9/d                 35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          19.8         15.5      26.97e                 25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         78.6      84.0/e                 73.1                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.8          5.1       6.4/f                  9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         76.2     131.0                  116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.2          6.6      17.6                   37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         20.5        ..                   53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           1.8/h     1.7                    2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13859.9      16986.9   22428.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.4        46.8       46.0                   33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              84.0         80.0      76.0                   52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0          6.0       9.0                   17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6      47.8                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 52.7         49.3      51.3                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9      44.2                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1       0.9                    1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHioT 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/         23.8/i    14.0/
HIGHEST 20 :-RCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97i        49.771    42 .27.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2Z/         6 .17     7.67.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OY HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/8        15.97i    19.-
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     159.0                  194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     106.0                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0                  178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0                  164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      15.0                   24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ja   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; /  Preliminary data for
1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional
data overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                             Pagei3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Eces   aithetagh the data one dines fine. ntteceet generally judged the most antho-tIative and reliable, it    IIo'ld otmo be noted tht they say not be itter-
matiset,ly ca-P-table bIntoer ot the lack of sodardized defititions and concepts used by dtfferent tooterte  in cotlettieg che dats.  The datta ate. none-
thelese, usefol to describe onders of tadgittode,  nditceteeds, atd tharoctertee certoin salon dtfEernenns betwent  coontries.
The enbereoce gooops ate (1) the same tootcy troop of che subject  -oontry ood (2) an ootry geop eith omeeh., highbe  aterage itcom- thas the coontry group
of the sobjenot country (encept foe   "tHth Inco        EttOil hxporters" grouptfhere "Middle Ioome North Africa and tFiddle tot" t  Chtosen because of steonger
sotto-ositocai aftineties).  It the -eferette troop do athae avergee are poputitton veighted a1tchmettt moans l or each indiscao  and eho-n only thee
miortty of the -onniee  tn a group  has data toe thtn loditator.  Sioce the overage of couotries aetg thhe tov tt    dnpels on thn anaitanitity of data
atd ie eat aelfoon. coottiot moott be eoero teed ho reletong fonerages of one tndtcatoe to another. These anenages ace only ttesefu tn comspaeing the nalue of
one tndicanor at a tt,te am;song the country and refeeence groups.
AREA (thoa.s.ed oq.km.)                                                                      Popolstian pee htspita. bed - total. orbas, and rural - Popolatian (totat.
- Total eoctace aces cotprteing taod area and tnlandsvaters; 9197  data.               orban. and esrat) dilided by their respecti-e nober of hospital beds
ARritultttral - ottetate oh agticultuocl area used toEporatily or pernanonthy                anatiabis to pbto end prinate general and epeciaitted hoepital and re-
foe hinps. pastures, maeket tad kitchen gaedend  on to lie fatlo:; 1979 dato.              bhttttaeioneorees.  Hospitals are estshitshketnt  pensoteotty etaffed
by at leaet one physictan.  tstahhiehpnets phaniding prtnciyally cotta-
-GP PtR CbPyTd (tSS) - GNP per napita ostmdtBel at -torrent mackenyrtcnt. cal-                 dial cane are not incIlded.  Roral heepitatl, hoeec.to nto_de beath
tlated by cmac  coonverston method as forld Btank A.las fl97SdSO bassy; 1960.                and ttedirol centers oat perateontly etaffed by a physician fbot by
1970, aed 1980 data.                                                                         mtedical aesisttot, torte,  tidwife. etc.) ahich offer in-patient ac.t-aso-
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEt CAPITy  A-lbo1  otopia   f                   neeil aeegy (doi             toat  pePtensd ora  hIptae inlsd)BO          frtnpl/gota   nyto
anud lignite, petfroteat, oatscta das and hydrat°, otfero g9eotheral      den-g              nedtt  tcorl  hoepteols, loca  orot     taa  hoptsl  me  meiaen  mtct
trictty) in ktiagrame of coat aquivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, nd 1979                     letters.  Opeaioltsed hbspitals are tclueded only under tPtta.
data. -Adm-taine par hospitat ted - petal nomnbr of admtssioeo tor discharges
fram hepnttate dittIed by the nomber of beds.
POPULATION ANt VitAL STAT CsTfd                                                                                             h
*                      Total Popiatlatn. Mid-Tear fth1onsads) - As of Joly 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980               ROUSING
does--  .  ..1Ae  etneo    osfId (esn  pe                                                                                                dioead) - tota, orban, and  uarai
Urban Population (perneotopf total) - Motito of orbhnoto tatat popuiatton:                   A houseehod tnsntst-, of a tbroe  et iof dtviduaot tico nIece linto  qoartetn
different dn.initins of arban arean mlay affect nomparabitty af data                       and their  ato meal:.  A boarder or lodger mop or may nor be tncioded in
among co-nttiet; 1h60, 1970, and I9d0 dato.                                                the bueehold foe sl atetst dal ponponet.
*  Propuatton Prejoogato                                                                   Avnerage _ot_ee at neroons pee rtom - total, obtan, and r-ral -anenageose-
Populatton in year l0OT - forent popolacion peojeottns are bated en 1980                   bee of persoon per  eon he ali orbat, and rueal ocupted nonventtonat
totat popolatiohn b  age ted see and thetr montotiry and fertiiityeratem.               dwelliings, reepnettrisy.  Iteetlinos txciodne on-ptomoottt steoctoree and
Projection parametars far meetoltty rates compeice of thfee tetelsase.- Pteccapied  parts.
itng life expectarcy at birth tncreoitto  sith coonteys  per  -op-tt  income           Acorns toie  teto temoest of deelhingel - total, urban. ond curai -
innel, and female life  enpectany etabilizmtg at 1-.t yeses.  The para-                  fnvenetitnal asteings aith elentrininy in living qoartoes anll
natert dot fereilltp rote also hone three lenelo asuingdt decline it                     af total, urbao, an/I coral dvellings respectnively
fertility aonrding to income le-ei aod past family planntng pErformante.
Eooh Country as then asosgned one of theta  nine           _ombleatlans of  mortality  tfUCATION
and tertilnty trends for projnctian purponee.                                          Adosted `eralFment Rstios
stationary porolorlon - Ino a stottocoty population ehere i9stOgrovthbnbnce                Primoary orbeol - total, mole aed inntae - Irons tonal, mole and feeale
the bitho  -tne ts equal to the death rate, aed also the age srcttrece-                    enroilment of ell oges or the phimery invel es percentages of respectine
saon        - constant.  Thie fo a-hiered oPly after fetilIty raree decline to             prfmery scbool-age pop tloeiono; noretly tleo-det thildeen aged h-l
tha neplacement lenel of .nit tet reptdocctian note, vhen tact generstion                  years bit adj-sted foe different lengthe of primary ed-catiot; for
of nomon teplarea itself eoactly.  The stattonapryapopulaton elan can                      tountrtes atit  orioersat edscatitn enrollment mopy reoed IOO prcent
esnimoted ot the  basis of rho projected tharactertstics of the popolarcon                 since cant popilt are below he abton tbe official schnol ago.
to the yaea  2000, and the nate og dclioe of feetility rote to replant-                  Secondory schosi - rofst, male and female - Cfncyoedasabone;n seonddry
R9nt lenel.                                                                                edocartionrequirtsnat least tone yeors of appeoved prtmary tnstrsttion;
Tear mtcaionary population in reached - The y-e  ahet etationary popolation                  pr-ovdes geeral. notational, or teachen traintng i tetotoot          t tot yspils
P i..   sill be reached.                                                                   ucoally of 12 to 17 yearn of age; norreenondence toutses are gmeneally
Population Density                                                                             excluded.
Pee sq. km. - Mid-year poyolatien Per sqoare kilometer  .lOO hactades) of                Votatianalenroilman  (percent of stoondaryf - Votational intittutin
total tent; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                    intlode tPnh-n2al,                     d-dostrial, on other poogeamV  which operate independ-
ete sq. he. agric:ltural lard - Cospcted an sbone far ogrtultuoal land                    tertl  or an deparetnts of secondary  Ptonttttieom.
Otly; 1960. 1970 end 1979 data.                                                          pil-teachec ratio   pr ynmary, and senondary - Total stodants antolled in
opalation Age Structure (portent) - Chiltden  fO-lh yearn), neckIng-age (15-                 primary and mecoed.ir lnevel dtvided by n-shnen of  aschero in the
64 yearn). and enticed (65 Yearn tad none) ax yer-entages of aid-year pops-                corereyonding leon.s.
lotion; 1960, 1911. and 1900 data.                                                       Adoit Itftracyrate -pnrnrnt  - Literate aduits fails to toad and aette)
Ppoplotion Grovth Moate (percent) - total - Monua) grovth natts of total mid-                an a pnrcentage of total adult ypoplation agad 15 yearn and over.
yaea population far lY50-h0. 1960-70, and 1970-0.
Ppoplatien iroath Rate (portent) - otian - Atnual groeth rates of orion popo-           iCOSgUdPTION
loti-os for 1950-h0, l96f-70, and 1970-fl.                                               Passenger fare (per thossoed peoLlatton) - Pannengee  tarn tnmprile notro
frode_irth nate (yen thousand) - Annual line births par thoocand of sid-year                 tars soaring lean than etght pensnne; exctudec aehohatten, heannes sod
yepnaIrion; 1960, 1970, and 1960 data,                                                     not00oary vehiclen.
tdeteac  Roa(e  inad) - dettoal dsaths penrbthtusa.d  of nhd-year                          Modie feceivers (pee thoosand population) - bit typee at rcetiners for radio
poynlotton; 1960, 1970, and 1981 dana.                                                     irotadrasts todgnoeral poblic par thoussnd of popolarton; socludesnut-
Irene Moptodsctiet gate-bverage nombeat of daugihtersaWkbsn  oill bear in                   1linensed reoninera in tountrtes and in years thee regtisrstioa of radto
her norna;l reprodoctlre pnriod if she enyerientas preseno  gecspecific far-               sets won an effect; data for rccoo  years naY non ho ceeparable ainte
tiltty  eaten; ocoally ftine-year averatec en ding tt i960, 1970, and 1980.                most ctuntrtes ablitined lAcansitg.
Faeily Planning-dAceponon. Ahnusal fthousands) - dnnaal eoaber of acceytors               7V Rarniners (per tEtostand popoloation) - fTV nrecevers far hroadc:to no
of btrth-control den tcsesuder oaupinen of national family planntng program.              Otter at poblic ye, thousand poynlatton; annlcdes onlitetsed fTV raeeners
Boally Plaeeda-laaUsrs (prcenot of Rdrtied names) - Peroenteage of earried                   inocosonriat and: n years thee cegionrot Ion of Ty aeon eas in effect .
names of rbtld-betrteg age (15-bk years) the ome htcth-nooinol  devicen to               Nenspaper Citetlati, n (pee thousand popolation) - Shone the averote ttr-
.all manied tomes to same age group.                                                        cuiation of "deail. generat mtnterest nevspaper", defined as o penrtodical
.0O0 Ah'D NUTERITIyON                                                                          to be ''datty~ tf  etpyanesr  at Leant  tootitmtes a seeks.  Iscniee
Index of Food Production pen Capita )19h9-P1N100) - lndas of yet capita anonet             finemo Metual bttee,Iance per Capita Per Year-Baseei on the number of
j                        prodoction of all food cno=dities.  Promo tine exclodes seed and feed ond                   tickets said dnritig rho year. tnclodtng sdmcsuteons tod  toie-tn cine=as
*                  is~~~~t on talendar peto basis.  lanmodlttes toner pntnney goods fe.g. nogaccane           and mohile stirs.
instnad of sutar) ebint ate edibfe tand contaienontrients fo.g. noffee asd
tea are exclnded).  Affregate produtfion of eath country in baend on                  LAnOg FORCE
natitnol toeraga prodocer proce veights; 1961-65. 1970, and 1980 data.                  Totial Labor yerte (:.honasnds) - RconomIcally active persots. incloding
energy oqotnotent of net fond soyylias anoiablaento   -CRue toot  ercyc                    toeering ppopLatiot of alL  gaseR   hefittiihons Innaions Studntete etre
pet day.  Anoelable soppites compotec dormesin produttion, Imports lren                    noa  comparable; ifOt, 197f and 1980 dana.
exyorts, and changasitnctockt.  Ntt mopyliam exclude antmol feed, needs,                   Female (pernent) - Female labor forte as percentogt of total labor force
Toast ities toad In food procensstog, and losmes in distribotton.  Rtquire-                Agritolture (Feetc-nt) - Labor forte in farmntg. forestry, hunting and
marts ante esttmdted by rhO boned on physiological needs for oneorl aoti-                    fishing an pencosnage of total labor forte; 1960, 197i and 1990 data.
city sod health contidering annvinotental tenpenateure. body veights. age                 Industry (perceont) - Labor force 1n siting , coneenrn tloo, Dgnofatturing
and sex dtstributitn of popol -tion, and allovng 1i  perteet fan  faste at                  and electicity, vater and gas on percentage ad tonal labor forte;
household level; 1901-65, 1970 and 1977 data.                                               I9bO. 1970 and 1980 dars.
Per _ayita sopply of protsin (tranis pear day) - Protein content el pee contra            Pacticipotton Rate (percent) - total, mole, and female - Parttnipation oe
set supply of food pen day.  -ec Aupliy of fond it defi.nd at shone,  he-                 activdty atesaracopoeed an tonal, mole, and Seale labor forh eas
qsieemontt for sll counotries established by USDA provide for Rotenis                      percentages of total, mote and female  apoplation of all agreetespectively;
nllnt oeeftf0 rsss of total protein perday andl2orspgaof sal and                           1960, 1910. andlyfldans.  Thes.a.s blsed fn 7l'sparninipattorates
putne p-tatin. of ouich 10 grama siouid he atlol protein.  These scand-                    rnfletning age-ste  strcue of the population, and long time trend.  A
_                  ~~~~~ards ore loner than those of 75 frame of tonal protein and 23 traE9 of                 feareeleanem  art ftom  tnaional sournes.
antRgl peoteis as an averaga for thevorld. peoponed by FAO is the Ihird                  Etotemtn Depeodoent: Ratio - Motto of yoyulactiaonuder 15 tnd 60 and orer
World Peed guey; 1901-hi. 1971 and 1917 data,                                             no the ctaal lab,r frore.
Poe capita p.ntet. supply . rem sniml and  ulset - Pooteto sopply of toad de-
roved frto  aotes and pMLaes fn teams par day; 1961-65, 1970 gtd 1977 does.            INCiONdi DISTRIBUTION
ChFid (agso 1-4) heath Rate fear thoesand) - Anoual deaths pee thousand in                 Frrrentagn at Petnote luouee (both is rash and kind) - Received by rittest
age group 1-h pears. to thtldreen he this oag  grasp, for mast deoelopptog tout-           5 percent.  icoheult 20 percent, poorest 2f pertent, and poorest 40 percent
trims data ferined free itfe tables; 1960. 1970 and 1080 data.                             of households.
8001 OR                                                                   POOt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'_--ItT-i TA-I-O-RT RO-Ii-
Lifa Expecteancy at Birth (pears) - Avenage  onumer of years of litfe rtemintng            The CoLlotneng eRtiRtaes tee very oppeontmaBte Deamore: of poverty levels,
at birth; 1960, i970 amd 1900 data,                                                        and ahoold be interpeetodnvith considerable rShtien.
infant htohAien Mote (tee tbousand) - anani deaths at ianants under see pear               Rattmaeed Ab-oh.te Ptverty Isatme LeYel (USl pee capta) - urban and eueal -
of aie per Oboasand tine births; 1900, 1910 aed 1980 dots.                                 Absolute povertp income levet is ehat mnoos  leael helev vhtab a rnisial
hcenes te Safe Water (perenet of populatian) - total, sebes, and ersia  - Nutm               nateintinmlly adequate diet plus essential ste-fted reqotremetes im met
bee of people (total, uebsn, and natal) with reasmosahle mattess no mote                   affordable.
water aupply (tdcludes treated soefana meters or auntreated hot oscseomtaoiaed           gEttimared gelaties Panerty Itcotr Lenel (U 5$ per noapies) -aurhen and eural -
mater sech so that tram peotected boreholes, aprtege, and samitary wells) as               Rueal telative ppeerty isCoee lenel ts one-third of average peerscpita
percteaegesato theie reempective popsiatisms.  le aneurban areaa pubitt                    personal tecome sf the acantry.  Urbae tenel is derived teem the rurat
fosottsi  on standpoint lotated set moepr thas 200 metees fee ma beset may be              leveei vithb adjesimete for higher nest at liRntng tn onrbamareas.
coscidaete cm being eithbin reamomahte atteais at thdt hoase.  in erorl areac            msiteated Ppopuation Omime Absolute Poveren laneme 7eveR (parrcett) - urhae
reeasonbleaotenmssvold ttmpRy that the heseeshfe at therer at the hossebaid                and rueal - Perrene of popelatien ferbeen and erorl) whe are 'absalase
do not have te upead a diaproportiopate pant of thet day  in fetcbtng the                  poor".
family' nester needs.
Antcees no  onereta Btseosal (ptrenet ot Popslatton) - total, _ebesi end mekal -
Bomber pf pmople (total. srbae. and renal) meetsd by entrees dispotal am
percentages of th-eire specetee  ltopeloteon.  Rxeneta tispomal may taciode
the aeLientgoa sotd disgnsm'i. mitts oe mitmUcet neestm_me of finesse earesta
snd waste-manse by mater-heeae myncetme or ebe use tof pitc peintes and msiti-
ier tmataleetiomd.
Pteolcttan Bee Pbystctas - Pops-entes dtivded bp  -e-t so preneimiag pbpsi-                                                     OnAaORirO  and Moolah Data Binimies
o           -maN   metitf-ed  eap1 a .etal meh6ol at amineratny tenet.                                                    otemmit-d a Alpsis and Peejentiey B-epan-mems
Pagmiotied   p         _e  .isesi-g Pde-ta - Pppetants- divided by xembes of pxemttnien                                                    HAY 1891
taln and ismahe geadbsate neniaq, a-siRttat macaIss pemitnetl ecme  and
macsting ammtlimeism.



ANNEX I
-2 4-                                                 Page 4 of 5
Population        47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per Capita:  US$758 (1981)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amountl
(million US$ at             Average annual increase (Z)                    Share of GDP at market prices (X)
current prices)                (at constant prices)                               (at current prices)
Indicator                      1981 /a       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960           1970         1975        1981/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product       36,808           8.4       6.3      7.6        5.5        5.4      100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0
Agriculture                 8,935           5.5       5.3      3.2       3.7         4.0       39.8        28.3         31.5        24.3
Industry                   10,399          11.5      7.8      11.4       6.6         6.0       18.7        25.3         24.8        28.2
Services                   17,474           9.0      7.1       7.9       6.3         5.7      41.5         46.4         43.7        47.5
Consumption                  27,920           7.3       7.0      7.5        4.4        4.8       85.7        78.7         79.3         75.9
Gross investment             10,278          15.8       3.8      8.2        3.0        6.0       15.7        26.2         25.4         27.9
Exports of GNFS               9,212          10.5      3.6      13.4       8.9         6.9       17.4        16.7         19.1         25.0
Imports of GNFS              10,899          13.9      3.7      10.5       2.7         5.9       18.9        21.5         23.7         29.6
Groas  nattional savings      7,716          13.7       4.1      5.5        8,0        7.1       14.1        21.5         20.7         21.0
Composition of merchandise trade (X)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports           7,013           5.5       9.0     14.4        7.0        5.8    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                     4,530           4.2       6.6     10.0        6.1        5.0     97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.8    38.7
Manufactures                2,483          29.2     20.9      25.1        7.7        6.4       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.2    61.3
Merchandise imports           9,933          11.5       3.3     10.8        2.6        5.7    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                          380           4.3     -2.7      11.9       0.0         6.0      9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4       3.6      3.5
Petroleum                   2,982          11.8       5.0      8.7        1.6        0.0      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    27.8    23.4
llachinery & equipment      2,494          16.1       5.9      7.4       4.7         7.3     25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    26.0    27.1
Others                      4,077          10.1      1.0       9.3       4.7         8.1      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    42.6    46.0
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980       1981/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                      100.0      103.3     112.1      121.8     136.9      159.3      173.6
Exchange rate                                      20.4       20.4      20.4       20.3       20.3      20.5       21.82
Export price index                                100.0       97.3      99.4      107.4      128.3     151.7      153.3
import price index                                100.0      105.5     113.4      122.3     141.4      175.6      197.4
Terms of trade index                              100.0       92.2      87.6       87.8      90.8       86.4       77.7
As % of COP
1960          1970           1975           1980           1981/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                    13.6           13.8           13.2           14.0           13.9
Current expenditures                                10.6           12.6           11.8           13.5           13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          +3.0           +1.2           +1.4          +0.5           +0.8
Capital expenditure                                  4.3            5.8            3.4            3.9            3.5
Foreign financing                                     0.2           0.1            0.1            0.2            0.2
1960-70        1970-75         1975-80         1980-85/b         1985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
CNP growth rate (X)                         8.4             6.2             6.9             5.6               5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (X)              5.2             3.4             4.4             3.6               3.9
ICOR                                        2.8             4.0            3.4              4.0              3.8
Marginal savings rate                       0.29            0.23            0.21            0.3               0.3
Import elasticity                           1.7             0.6            1.3             0.5               1.05
/a  Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
April 15, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population      :  47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)                                     - 25 -
GNP per Capita:  US$758 (1981)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL kN6  DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actcal                                                    Projected
Indicator                         1970    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981/d  1982    1983    1984    1985               1986    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor
services                                 1,108   3,490   4,529   4,976   6,456   7,939   8,496   9,146  10,300  11,880  13,652  15,527  25,722
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.               686   2,9559   3,654   4,245   5,234   6,449   6,883   6,974   7,820   8,949  10,205  11,513  18,334
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                                -1,430  -3,892  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,686 -10,183 -11,425 -13,096 -14,957 -16,923 -27,578
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,928  -8,544  -9,591 -11,004 -12,581 -14,249 -23,278
Net factor income fron abroad                  23     -62      -99    -266    -480    -236    -498    -492    -413    -394    -370    -348    -251
Net transfers                                  49       23       40       40       60     209      164      194      192      210      232    -255       370
Current account balance                     -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,086  -2,079  -2,525  -1,335  -1,346  -1,400  -1,443  -1,489  -1,737
Private direct investment                      43       79      106       50       51      187     288       179     225      248      272      299      438
MLT loans  (set)                               32      248      346      670   1,418   1,665   1,631         876   1,380   1,650   1,926   2,018   2,132
Official                                    21      109      181      290      488      569      621   1,371   2,043   2,024   1,885   1,676   1,554
Private la                                   10     139      165      380      930   1,096   1,010    -495    -663    -374            41      342      578
Other capital /b                               93      219      740      782   1,160       153     307      282       70       48      252      293       32
Change in reserves                             82     -96      -95    -349    -543          74     299       -2    -329    -450    -503    -535    -865
International reserves                        906   2,113   2,208   2,557   3,100   3,026   2,721    2,729   3,058   3,508   4,011   4,546   7 459
Reserves as months imports                      8        7        5        5        5        4                 3        3       3        3        3        3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disburnements
Cencessc onal loans                          11       52       78     153      242      230      221      460      627      726      665      583      697
DAC                                       11       45       50       86      178      176      18:     392      546      654      620      563      697
IDA                                        =        7        9        5        4        5       2        17       19       16       12        5        -
Other                                      -        -       19       62       60       49       11       61       62       56       33       15        -
loncoocessieoal loans                       188     467      585   1,133   1,816   2,154   2,023   1,288   1,709   2,105   2,634   3,114   4,005
Official export credits                     7       -       32        -        -        3       83       56       39       30        8        -        -
IBRD                                      19       43       65      103      139      143      281      250      319      402      500      570      661
Other multilateral                         2       46       33       46       36       83       64      212      212      225      312      385      457
Private publicly guaranteed               17      101      106      411      842      898      805      707   1,084   1,041        982      929   1,275
Private nonguarm-teed                    143      277      349      573      799   1,027       790       64       55      406      831   1,231   2,411
Total gross disbursements                  199       519     663   1,286   2,058   2,384   2,251    1,748   2,336   2,831   3,299   3,697   5,502
External Debt (fixed-tero)
Public debt outstanding &
disbursed                                   328     823   1,119   1,820   2,832   4,128   5,109   6,715   8,577  10,259  11,784  13,112  18,092
Ofilcial                                 291      672      895   1,254   1,671   2,315   2,843   4,307   6,350   3,374  10,260  11,936  17,852
Private                                   37      I51      224      566   1,161    1,813   2,316   2,412   2,227   1,885   1,524   1,176             240
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstaading and disbursed                382      785      880      931   1,243   1,703   2,039   1,623   1,141   1,109   1,510   2,200   5,523
Total debt outstanding and
disbur-sed                               710   1,608    1,999   2,751   4,075   5,831    7,268   8,338   9,718  11,368  13,294  15,312  23,615
Undisbursed debt                            118     840   1,364   1,899   2,361   3,004   3,081    3,796   3,916   3,892   3,826   3,760   4,867
Debt Servige
Total s%vrice payments                      162     378      442      812      962   1,224   1,3I 5   1,689   1,785   2,081   2,357   2,786   5,115
lIterest                                  16      107      126      196      322      505      636      817      830      900      984   1,107   1,744
Paymenta as 7 esports of goods and    14.6    10.8    11.0    16.3    14.9    15.4    15.6    18.5    17.3    17.5    17.3    17.9    19.9
nonfaeter services
Average interest rate on sew loans
(7) /c                                        6.8      7.8      7.0     6.8       7.6     9.3    10.2        9.5     9.5      9.5      9.6      9.6      9.6
Official                                    6.8      7.9      6.1      5.6     5.4       6.8      7.4       -        -        -        -        -        -
Private                                     6.0      7.3      8.3      8.9    10.5    13.8    13.8          -        -        -        -        -        -
Average maturity of new loans
(Tears) /0c                                  18.9    17.3    14.5    17.1    17.0    16.6    16.7    17.3    17.3    15.8    14.4    13.3    13.0
Official                                   19.4    20.6    19.6    21.1    22.4    21.1    22.4             -        -        -        -        -        -
Private                                    11.2      7.3      7.9      9.4    10.0       8.6      S.3       -        -        -        -        -        -
Bank Group Exposure (%)
TIBR  DOD/total DOD                       22.6    18.6    17.3    15.8    13.6    11.6    11.9    13.8    14.6    15.5    16.4    17.3    18.3
IBRD disborsements/total gross
disburaements                            9.5      8.3    10.0       8.6      7.0      6.1    11 .0    14.3    13.7    14.2    15.2    15.4    12.0
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                                 11.1      9.6    10.0       6.8      6.9      6.5      4.8      7.4      8.4      8.8    20.0    10.9    12.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                             -     0.7       1.0     0.9       0.7      0.6     :.,7      0.8     0.9      0.9      0.9      0.8      0.5
IDA disburseoents/total gross
disbursaements                             -      1.3      1.3      0.4      0.2      0.2      1.9      1.0      0.8      0.6      0.4      0.l      0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                    -      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
As % of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Matority structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                                 48.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                                71.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                               11.2
/a  Due to ehange in classification, projected data for  private MLT loans" include some 0J the category "other capital".
lb 'Other capital" includes net use of IMF funds and net flow of short-term capital.
7 iistnrical data does cot inclade nongoaranteed private debt.
/d Preliminary.



- 26 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THIAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                   Purpose         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-seven loans and three credits fully disbursed             869.03   31.74
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                Irrigation       95.00       -       21.43
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                Rural Dev.       21.00(TW)   -        1.41
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                Education        27.50       -        3.87
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                Agriculture      28.00       -        1.21
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                Irrigation       55.00       -        9.81
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                     Power            50.00        -       3.47
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                Population           -   33.10/a      7.52
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                Highways        110.00       -       14.09
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority Rural Elect.    25.00          -        2.50
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                Housing           8.60       -        5.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization                                                  61.92
of Thailand                     Telecom          90.00        -
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                Irrigation       17.50        -      10.74
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                Urban Trans.    16.00        -       10.89
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand          Railways         16.70       -        8.09
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                     Power            80.00        -      33.68
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                Education            -   35.00       23.54
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                Agriculture          -   25.00       18.40
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                Ag. Extension   40.00        -       25.74
1770   1980   Electricity Gener-ating Authority
of Thailand                     Power            80.00        -      13.58
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of             Natural Gas
Thailand                          Pipeline      107.00/b      -      10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                Irrigation       80.00       -       66.35
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                Ag. Credit       19.00       -        3.88
1852   1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand           Power            72.00        -      28.54
1863   1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                       Water Supply    40.00         -      38.06



- 27 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose          Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing            29.00         -       24.21
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity          Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification    75.00          -        67.48
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways 53.00                   47.92
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports              47.00         -       45.96
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research       30.00         -       29.77
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.          Engineering       8.90         -        4.81
of Thailand                  Industry          30.00         -         4.04
2000      1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power            100.00         -        98.50
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation         57.00         -       55.28
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Provincial Roads 35.00           -       24.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand             Tree crops        142.00         -      122.82
2143     1982   Telephone Organization          Telecotimuni-
of Thailand /c                 cations        142.10         -       142.10
2178     1982   Kingdom of Thailand             Education          75.00         -       73.79
2184     1982   Petroleum Authority of          Liquified Petro-
Thailand                       leum Gas        90.00         -        88.67
2198     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c          Agriculture        17.00         -       17.00
Total                                                      2,878.33   124.84    1,270.92
of which has been repaid                        319 . 89               2.85
Total now outstanding                                      2,560,79   121.99
Amount sold /d                        68.63
of which has been repaid           53.86                    14.77
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             2,546.02   121.99
Total undisbursed                                          1,221.46    49.46
/a Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant part icipation.
/b Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 mi:Llion).
/c  Not yet effective.
7T Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.       Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.39        0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                   Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers            4.85    0.34        5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials           63.00    4.00       67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                  -    0.15       0.15
1983   Sea Minerals Limited    Mining                           -    0.33        0.33
Total gross commitments                             100.98    9.94    110.92
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           69.50    2.71       72.21
Net held by the Corporation                          31.48    7.23      38.71
Total undisbursed                                    15.80    0.13      15.93



ANNEX II
- 29 -                  Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECJTION /1
(As of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development. Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project's success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, and budgeting.
IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in onfarm works, and the Government is
expected to request an extension of the closing date. However, development
of the onfarm systems is now proceeding well, and the diversion dam and
90% of the main canals and laterals are now complete. All studies financed
under the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:  December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Rehabilitation works and onr-farm works for 62,000 ha and rehab-
ilitation works for 138,000 ha have been completed in accordance with the
appraisal schedule. The Mae Klong component for construction of service
roads and a sugarcane pilot project are behind schedule however, and the
Government is expected to request an extension of the Closing Date,
initially to June 30, 1984.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



ANNEX II
-30-                    Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million Loan of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now complete. Construction of main and secondary canals is
progressing satisfactorily but onr-farm works are well behind schedule.  Two
new. diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project area, and work
on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787  Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in the appointment of consultants and slow processing of civil works
contracts and tender documents. Canal rehabilitation work by force account
is progressing satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to
delays in design work. Implementation is expected to improve following
reallocation of design work between RID and the consultant.
Loan No. 2022 Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of August 13,
1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and about 30 km of main and lateral canals
have been rehabilitated and/or constructed. A contract for construction of
about 60 km of main and lateral canals was awarded in August 1982. A Plan
of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation Department was prepared by
the Department in September 1982.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
The project is scheduled for completion in September 1983. Conr
struction of almost: 1,240 km of vllage access roads is complete and is
nearing completion on the remainiing  O km.  The road maintenance program is
beii,   -      out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment proc"eLJ  -Aer the project.  The ville.ge water supply component
has ccnF'   --d 3,500 fres.---c- wells and the remaining 500 will be drilled
by Septembe±r i93J.  fhe -ther componentb (extension, upland orops research,
village electrification, and A' pi  t proqram for settlement areas) have
be;n batisfac.orily corplet-I.



ANNEX II
- 31-                   Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1243  Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Xillion Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This loan is fully disbursed. The Project Completion Report is
being prepared.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1963
The project has been successful.in achieving the level and type
of organization required to implement a "T and V system, but the substance
is very variable, due to difficulties in decent:ralization and to problems
in instituting a uniform system of supervision, guidance and training at
regional and provincial levels. Until recentlY, linkages with research
have been weak. Effort is being concentrated on training, especially of
subject matter specialists, and on improving the information and reporting
system in the closing months of the project.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Exl:ension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 198';
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and disburse-
ments are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject matter specialist training
is being given priority attention. Linkages w:ith research are being
strengthened in order to improve the relevance of the information being
disseminated to farmers through the "T and V" system.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $1!3 Million Loan of April 30,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the p1-oject are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending component under the project is fully disbursed. The most critical
factor affecting the financial viability of BLAC is the interest rate levels
for agriculture. Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative
Promotion Department and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their
training activities and in the construction of regional and provincial staff
housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research P?roject; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
Counterpart budget deficiencies, delays in introducing a
reorganization plan and generally weak management contributed to very slow
progress during the first 18 months of project implementation. The



ANNEX II
- 32 -                   Page 7 of 13
appointment of a dynamic and experienced Director-General in October 1982
has recently had a very favorable impact. Reorganization is now complete
and detailed site development plans have been drawn up for the first nine
research centers. A civil works design and construction consultant is being
selected. A technical assistance team, cofinanced by Australia, is
providing substantial advisory support, and the fellowship program is off to
a good start.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 Million Loan of January 29,
1982; Effective Date: October 22, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Physical progress under the project is good. In 1982, the Office
of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (ORRAF) replanted 56,000 ha of rubber,
exceeding the target of 50,000 ha p.a. by 12%. The main problem facing the
project is financial. ORRAF has a shortage of financial resources due to a
decline in cess revenues resulting from low world rubber prices, and Govern-
ment budgetary constraints. The Bank agreed to increase the disbursement
percentages of certain categories of the loan for expenditures incurred from
February 1982 to April 1983, but further increases may be required for the
remaining years of the project.
Loan No. 2198 Land Reform Areas Project; $17 Million Loan of September 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
The loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is practically completed, with a cost underrun of
about US$4.96 million (16%). At Government-s request, $3.5 million in
unallocated category was cancelled, effective from October 7, 1982. Although
part of the balance of $1.46 million would be used to finance a proposed
study on agricultural education, to be carried out by the National Education
Commission (NEC), the bulk of the balance may remain unutilized by Closing
Date on June 30, 1983. Preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
is under way.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Phase one and
two are completed and the final phase is progressing satisfactorily. There
are no major problems and credit covenants are being fulfilled. There have
been some delays due to site acquisition problems but, with most critical
activities roughly on schedule, the project would be completed by the
current Closing Date of June 30, 1985. Because of the substantially reduced



A1NEX II
- 33 -                  Page 8 of 13
local inflation, project costs are about 5% belDw appraisal estimates.
Disbursements which now represent 71% of appraisal estimates are expected to
improve with the scheduled procurement of major equipment items. The
multi-component nature of the project has made management and coordination
difficult, but recent administrative actions have minimized this problem and
rendered the CPU more effective.
Loan No. 2178 Sixth (Secondary) Education Project; $75 Million Loan
of July 26, 1982; Effective Date:  October 26, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan has recently been declared eEfective.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project continues to move ahead smoothly, and disbursements
have improved considerably over the past 18 months. All ten national level
training facilities have been completed. Of the 430 rural health
facilities, 406 have been completed, one is under construction and 23 had to
be deleted. The construction program has been delayed about 18 months.
Most training, information/education/communication, and populationr-related
research and evaluation activities have been completed on schedule; the
Innovative Village Nutrition Activity shows considerable promise and is
already being widely replicated. Five other Innovative Activities are
getting under way. A request to reallocate $1.7 million is expected soon.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After nearly two years of delays/work stoppage, construction work
has resumed at the Tung Song Hlong site since April 1982 and is progressing
well. This was possible after NRA and the Contractor (Union Progress Co.)
agreed to a modified contract. NHA agreed to change infrastructure
(drainage) standards and allowed new rates to be negotiated. Construction
of community facilities through four separate contracts is proceeding on
schedule and slum upgrading works are essentially completed. The closing
date was recently extended by two years.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Proje,t; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985
After an extremely slow start the project is now progressing at a
reasonable rate. As of November 1982, 27% of thle total project was either
completed or under contract.  Civil works schemes, especially comprehensive
route improvements implemented during 1982, are having the desired impact on
traffic operations. The Loan Executive Committee has recently approved a



ANNEX II
34 -                  Page 9 of 13
major expansion and enhancement of the traffic signal system and the hiring
of badly needed technical assistance to OCMRT. Policy questions have not
progressed well.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
After an initial delay of 6-12 months caused by problems in land
acquisition and procurement, the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Infrastructure and core housing construction is und,er way on three of the six
project sites. Land acquisition for the fourth sites has been completed and
NRA has proposed alternatives (where land acquisition has been completed) for
the remaining two sites. Phase I of slum upgrading has been completed and
the technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Progress on the physical components of the project continue to
lag and disbursements remain a problem. But corrective measures are being
employed and this situation should improve over the next six months. The
components concerning organizational reform and training are satisfactory;
PWA is making good progress in the area of institutional development.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project has,been completed on schedule. The dam is serving
all the multi-purposes as planned. The three units of turbine generators
are operating satisfactorily. Construction of the 115 kV transmission line
and substation components associated with the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 4,134 villages, out of which 3,222
villages hAive ;iLr- Xv been electrified. The load promotion program has been
implemented.  Disbu-em- .s are very close to initial appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Protect; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Late: May 23, 1'd0.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is about 46% complete, three months behind schedule
because of poor soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field



ANNEX II
- 35 -                  Page 10 of 13
works are now proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected
to catch up with the original schedule. The first unit is targeted for
commissioning in July 1983, as scheduled.
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date:  February 28, 1985
The project is about 30% complete, one year behind schedule
because of unexpectedly poor rock foundation, but works are now under way
satisfactorily. Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construe-
tion of the resettlement villages is in progress. The transmission system
will be completed in 1983.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Construction started in 719 villages for the first 18 provinces;
235 villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 2000 Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Construction of the diversion tunnel hzs started.  The pre-
qualification process for main civil works is almost completed.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule. The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works have been completed. The project
has been completed on schedule and below the original cost estimate.
Loan No. 2184 Liquified Petroleum Gas Project; $90 Million Loan of
August 17, 1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Loan has recently been declared effective.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                  Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is being implemented in accordance with the schedule.
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily and no major problems
are expected until the completion of the project.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984 9 *
The project is proceeding well. By the end of February 28, 1983,
an amount of $29.6 million has been committed and $25.7 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947  Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of March 4,
1981; Effective Date:  December 29, 1981: Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The actual progress of the project is four months behind contract
work schedule due to slow progress of excavation of the incline.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction has been completed on nine of the eleven roads and is
almost finished on the tenth. Construction works are, overall, about 93%
complete. However, the Closing Date was extended by twelve months because
of initial delay in awarding the contract for the eleventh road followed by
slow progress by the contractor. But the contractor"s output has improved
and is in accordance with the revised schedule. The maintenance equipment
has been procured and, with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with road maintenance program is improving. The studies have been
completed. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) and for future road projects has
been completed. Costs are closely in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan NZo. 2035 Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of August 13,
1981; Effective Date: December 1, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Construction is under way on all 23 road sections, about 40%
complete and substantially on schedule. The first phase of the Trucking
Industry Study is underway and technical assistance was provided to the
Ministry of Communications in carrying out the recently completed studies
on Road User Taxation and Energy Policies for the Transport Sector. On the
basis of a completed pre-feasibility study of Inland Water Transport, terms



ANNEX II
- 37 -                  Page 12 of 13
of reference are being prepared for feasibility studies of proposed
investments. Studies and engineering are under way for preparation of future
road projects. Costs are expected to be within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and the Closing Date was recently extended to December 31, 1983.
Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability of passenger
and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial position of
SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff increases for
passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because of a
subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and civil works are well under way. Despite delays
during mobilization and the early stages of construction, work is now
proceeding satisfactorily. Consultants have been appointed for design and
construction supervision of the various project components; they are on site
and work is proceeding satisfactorily. Acquisition of land for port sites
is still incomplete and is likely to cause further delay in the completion
of the project.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Government has now made a firm decision to proceed with the
development of a new port at Laem Chabang and is reviewing the effects of
this decision on the present project.  The Government has indicated that it
wishes to proceed with work at the Port of Sattahip under the present
project, as originally contemplated during appraisal, in order to provide
interim facilities to account for overflow from the Port of Klong Toei until
such time as facilities at the new port of Laem Chabang become available.
Consultants for the design of this interim work at the Port of Sattahip are
being selected.  The design of the Bang Su Container Freight Terminal is
under way and is scheduled for completion by April 1983. The Government will
decide on the extent and timing of the proposed work at Bang Su in May or
June 1983. Tender documents for procurement of equipment under the project



ANNEX II
-.38-                   Page 13 of 13
are now being prepared by consultants and the selection of the remaining
technical assistance advisors for the Port Authority of Thailand is
presently being undertaken.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, and procurement of all Bank-financed
items is complete. The financial condition of the borrower continues to be
satisfactory.
Loan No. 2143 Fourth Telecommunications Project; $142.1 Million Loan of
December 20, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Effective Date: May 13, 1982
Closing Date:  ML-.rch 31, L'83
The Loan was fully disbursed as of July 19, 1982. Implementation
of the structural adjustment program is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 39 -                           ANNEX III
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Department of Highways
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  May 1982
(d)  First mission to consider the project:  June 1982
(e)  Departure of the appraisal mission:  January 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations:  May 5, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness: September 15, 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III -Special Conditions
(a)  In the Action Plan for energy pricing, agreed to under the
Structural Adjustment Loans No. 2097-TH and 2256-TH, special
provision will be made for fuel pricing in transport and road
user taxation (para. 35).
(b)  All provincial roads to be construc Wed/improved require economic
returns, based on detailed engineering, of no less than 12%.
The cut-off point for road strengthening/rehabilitation is
15% (paras. 44 and 45).
(c)  The Borrower will undertake a satisfactory maintenance program
for national and provincial roads during FY83-88, and provide
adequate annual budgetary appropriations for this purpose
(paras. 53 and 54).






_~~~~~~~                                                                  HUO jOr   I  
ro   _rrE r  ; ,2        X . >                                                          =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -" p1   ThlND   ,
SK- '-v.  '   uJ~  -- LAO   PEOPLE'S                                     4C        i >
L~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E P0                             U    
{0 Zwo_                             _EMOCRAT                                           C                  /  >KA  OOiO EAb1H
| s >                                               M O (E Y ^ 4 t (                                  . A 'i: a 'r 
.    gX  f =; ¢}   t   \  ~ ~~~POOl             9,    i                 E
Kr>                                                                                                     L        Oooi   010   00 00 0 t  000        0f
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-6 ore          r =        'g             -   >:1/  Si       
VH'4=X                f/t  k zt t 
| 4                             r1                           T' i   ja  <  _ 
---'----AA A L A~~~~~~~~~~~~I'Y
ST 0_ffC:u' r    '   ' ,.          f/3a-'  ri   ci'                                  ,   }if; -00a     .
X t't . nS . r a;3>7 =: 2=  : . . t=THAILAND                                              =        4...................   --   -
0 Xz  dVt>$;$DoWt 9S;    t    -SECONDt PROVINCIAL ROAkDS PROJECt' '
Tb.qt ,,5 t; ._gp    jo9   <  0&                  =, rGN4§S'TRlCTIO0 000 IHIP0044TINTo  5r0 POsoorT 
;t|rt ( < AR~~~~~~~~~~'001501                                  P'GGNL3UOIOO
R_  os r@?[>  >  <i \0Nu           _    _-  - IlN 000/AtONAL 00  STNAHl E
j } ;-sb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIs ALOTI0'H S                                A              90      090fm 
m__   __                                        .                                                      OC                           - =  oseuDut  )><L



