Document of
The World Bank                                       -
i.?Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4361-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
May 17, 1983
Transportation Division 2
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



A          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thailand Baht (B)
B 1                US$0.0435
B 1 million        US$43,478
US$1               B 23
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =  3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =  0.39 miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                  =  0.28 US gallons (gal)
=  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
=  0.98 British long-tons (lg ton)
=  1 million gram
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt      -  annual average daily vehicle traffic
AC        -  Asphalt Concrete
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
AEC       -  Asian Engineering Consultants Corp.
ARD       -  Office of Accelerated Rural Development
BCEOM     -  Bureau Central d-Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
c.f.s.    -  container freight station
DBST      -  Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DOH       -  Department of Highways
dwt       -  dead weight tons
ETO       -  Express Transport Organization
F.3-F.6   -  Provincial Roads Standards
goe       -  grams of oil equivalent
LBI       -  Louis Berger International Inc.
LPG       -  liquified petroleum gas
MOC       -  Ministry of Communications
MOI       -  Ministry of Interior
OECF      -  Overseas Economic Cooperative Fund (Japan)
p.a.      -  per annum
NESDB     -  National Economic and Social Development Board
PAT       -  Port Authority of Thailand
PWD       -  Public Works Department
RID       -  Royal Irrigation Department
SRT       -  State Railways of Thailand
toe       -  tons of oil equivalent
TPU       -  Transport Planning Unit
V-km      -  vehicle-km
VOC       -  vehicle operating costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   TRANSPORT SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
A.   Transport System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .                    l
B.   Sector Management.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    4
C.   Sector Issues, Policies and Investments.  . . , . . . .                    4
D.  Past Bank Lending to Transport Sector.  . . . . . . . .                     8
II.   HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
A.   Network. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    10
B.  Road Transport ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
C.  Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     15
D.   Staff and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    16
E.   Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    17
F.  Financing.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    198
G.  Engineering.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    21
H.  Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     22
I.  Maii.tenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   22
III. THE PROJECT.. ..............   24
A.   Background and Objectives.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   24
B.   Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    25
C.   Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    27
D.   Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    29
E.   Status of Preparation.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   30
F.   Implementation and Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . .                    30
G.  Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    31
H.   Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   32
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     32
A.   Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads . . . . .                    32
B.   Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads                               35
V.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of
P.R. Morris (Highway Engineer) and A. Weckerle (Economist), which visited
Thailand in January 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEX
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.1   -  Passenger and Freight Transport by Modes
1.2   -  Oil Consumption by Sector
1.3   -  Oil Consumption of Transport Sector
1.4   -  Consumption of Motor Fuels
1.5   -  Fuel Consumption by Modes
1.6   -  Road Sector Fuel Consumption by Vehicle Types and Road Network
1.7   -  Road Sector Fuel Consumption by Regions
1.8   -  Breakdown of Retail Prices of Petroleum Products in Thailand
1.9   -  Energy Economics of Diverting Road Traffic to Rail
1.10  -  Government Five-Year Plan Investments in Transport - Summary
1.11  -  Government Fifth Five-Year Plan Investments in lTransport -
Details by Modes
2.1   -  Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1963-82
2.2   -  Department of Highways Roads by Regions in 1982
2.3   -  Regional Indices of Department of Highways Roads
2.4   -  Motor Vehicle Registration
2.5   -  Classification of Registered Motor Vehicles (1978)
2.6   -  Registered Motor Vehicles by Area of Registration
2.7   -  Vehicle-Kilometers on National, Provincial and Rural Roads
2.8   -  Vehicle-Kilometers on National and Provincial Roads by Regions
2.9   -  National and Provincial Roads Network Utilization
2.10  -  Vehicle Mix on National and Provincial Roads
2.11  -  Traffic Growth Rates on National and Provincial Roads
2.12  -  Percentage of Overloaded Trucks
2.13  -  Bus Routes Operated by Transport Co., Ltd.
2.14  -  Road Subsector Investment Program
2.15  -  Department of Highways - Expenditures and Sources of Finance
2.16  -  Estimates of Tax Receipts from Road Sector
2.17  -  Overtaxation of Traffic by Road Networks
2.18  -  Overtaxation of Traffic on National and Provincial Roads -
by Vehicle Categories
2.19  -  Profile of Department of Highways Expenditures
2.20  -  Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures - National and
Provincial Roads
2.21  -- Proposed Increases in Road Vehicle Taxation
2.22  -- Vehicle Operating Costs
2.23  -- Designs Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads
2.24  -  Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads
3.1      List of Eligible Project Roads - Construction/Irmprovement of
Provincial Roads
3.2   -  Roads Included in First Year's Construction Ptogrram
3.3   -- List of Eligible Project Roads - Strengtheninxg/Rehabilitation
of Paved Roads
3.4   -  Estimated Cost of Project
3.5   -  Project Implementation Schedule
3.6   -  Schedu.le of Istimated Disbursements



- iii -
CHART
IBRD 21959 Organization of Department of Highways
MAPS
1.  IBRD 15195/R  National Highway and Provincial Roads Systems
2.  IBRD 15196/R  Northern Region - Project Roads
3.  IBRD 15197/R  Northeast Region - Project Roads
4.  IBRD 15198/R  Central Region - Project Roads
5.  IBRD 15199/R  Southern Region - Project Roads



l



I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport System
General
1.01      Since the mid-sixties, the Thai economy, as a result of the strong
showing of the agricultural sector, grew at a rapid pace and generated a high
demand for transport. To accomodate this demand, the Government undertook
large transport investments (in particular for road infrastructure) and
created a policy environment, under which with exceptions, a competitive
transport industry developed. Today, all Changwats are interlinked with a
good interregional and interprovincial communications network, and transport
services have penetrated the majority of previously remote rural areas. By
comparable international standards, the transport system is good, though there
is continued scope for further development. There are, on the whole, no
significant physical or administrative impediments to transport.
1.02      The country's transport is multimodal, consisting in order of
importance of road, rail, inland water, maritime and air transport. Road
transport has become predominant because of its inherent advantages, support-
ed by large infrastructure investments. Railway and waterbound transport have
also developed, but at a more modest rate due to a variety of constraints
(geography, structure of demand, etc.) and more limited investments budgets.
In freight transport (excluding urban traffic), roads carried in 1978 about
77% of all ton-km, followed by rail with 11%, and inland waterways and coastal
shipping, each of them with about 6% (Table 1.1). The predominance of road
transport has apparently been accentuated since. In passenger transport
(again excluding urban traffic) for the same year, the role of road transport
was even more pronounced with about 93% of passenger-km, against some 7%
carried by rail. Compared with these two modes, domestic aviation was
negligible (Table 1.1). During the 1980s, the transport sector is expected to
continue its expansionary course in step or slightly ahead of GDP growth, with
road transport at least consolidating, if not strengthening, its relative
position.
Road Transport
1.03      This subject is discussed in Chapter II - Highway Subsector.
Rail Transport
1.04      Rail transport is being provided by the State Railway of Thailand
(SRT), a state enterprise. Its network totals about 3,800 route-km of meter
gauge lines, of which all, except some 90 km, are single track. 3,200 km are
classified as main lines and 600 km as branch lines. The main line network
consists of four routes, all radiating from Bangkok: north to Chiang Mai,



-2-
northeast to the Laotian border, east to the Kampuchean border and south to
Malaysia. A new line of about 100 km is nearing completion, linking the
Eastern Seaboard (Sattahip port) with the Eastern Line.
1.05      The State Railway of Thailand is an operationally efficient organi-
zation with chronically weak finances and an economic role which needs to
be redefined. Despite its relatively modest place in the transport sector,
the substitutability of its services, and the Government's mandate of
financial viability for state enterprises, it is being run as a public service
organization. With tariffs kept below cost (currently by about 30x), rail
transport demand (1.1% p.a. growth of rail freight ton-km and 7.4% p.a. of
rail passenger-km, in 1975-82) is artificially high, SRT incurs substantial
losses and this distorts transport markets. By virtue of the relatively low
tariff levels, in comparison with the cost, it further is predisposed to
uneconomic investment. A Sixth Railway Project is under preparation to help
redress this situation.
Inland Waterways Transport
1.06      Thailand's inland water transport of commercial significance is
concentrated on about 1,300 km of rivers and canals between the mouth of the
Chao Phrya and the Northern Region. However, only a stretch of about 100 km
on the Chao Phrya allows unrestricted transport all-year round. Navigation in
the other sections is seasonally limited by low water, which forces barges to
detour on slow and costly routes, reduce payloads or cease operations. As a
result, inland waterways traffic falls off quickly 100 km beyond Bangkok.
1.07      To utilize the system's potential for low-cost transport, the
shallow river sections are being deepened with Bank assistance (under the
Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project - Loan 1889-TH). The project
also includes construction of two new river ports and promotion of a new
barge design and operation. The project, the first of its kind to provide
major public subsector investments, is expected to boost traffic by a factor
of three or four. Fleet development is expected to be taken up by the
traditionally vigorous and competitive private sector.
Domestic Maritime Transport
1.08      Domestic maritime transport relies on some forty shallow draft
ports, many of which also double as fishing ports. Most are of purely local,
and a few are of regional importance, and many are rudimentary. The ports are
concentrated along the southern peninsula and publicly or privately owned.
The fleet of coastal vessels consists of somewhat less than 900 units, ranging
between a few hundred and 3,000-4,000 dwt. Despite continuous improvements of
land transport along the coasts, domestic maritime transport remains an
important component of Thai transport. The future outlook for maritime
transport is good with the planned development of the Eastern Seaboard, which
will generate new traffic flows to and from the south.



- 3 -
1.09      In a more recent study, the condition of the port access channels
was identified as a major constraint of domestic shipping. The majority of
ports are riverine with severe draft restrictions at the rivers' mouths and
subject to continuous siltation. Frequent maintenance dredging, and in
some cases capital dredging, is required. The Harbor Department's capacity
to perform these functions is limited' and therefore being improved with
Bank assistance (under the Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project).
Deepwater Ports
1.10      There are presently two commercial deepwater ports for dry cargo:
the Port of Bangkok on the Chao Phrya and the former naval facility at
Sattahip on the Eastern Seaboard. The Port of Bangkok consists of the Klong
Toei wharves, operated by the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT), a state
enterprise, and other privately owned and managed facilities.  Sattahip is
also run by PAT. Construction of two southern deepwater ports at Songkhla
and Phuket is scheduled under the current Five-Year Plan.
1.11      Virtually all of Thailand's imports and exports presently use the
Port of Bangkok, except petroleum products and those agricultural bulk
exports, which are passing through Eastern Seaboard locations. Klong l'oei
is primarily of importance for breakbulk and containers. The other Bangkok
Port facilities specialize in imports such as steel and fertilizer, and
those agricultural exports not passing through the Eastern Seaboard.
1.12      During the 1970s, the volume of Thailand's foreign trade has
grown at a rate of 10% p.a. to close to 20 million tons p.a. As a result,
the Port of Bangkok could become critically congested in the coming years.
To provide relief, a port development program for Sattahip, with Bank
assistance (Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project - Loan 1913-TH), has been
launched. In addition, the Government decided to build in the mid-SOS
another deep-sea port nearby, at Laem Chabang, to serve as a nucleus for
planned industrial development centered around natural gas piped from the
Gulf.
Air Transport
1.13      International and domestic air transport are centered at the
Bangkok Airport Don Muang. Airport utilization is high, and works are in
progress or scheduled on a new runway, passenger terminal and aircraft
parking bays. Four other airports (Chiang Mai, Phuket, Hat Yai and U-Tapao)
are also open to international traffic. There are an additional 20 or so
airports receiving scheduled domestic flights. Despite adequate capacity of
Don Muang projected until the late 1990s, the Government is developing plans
for construction of new international Bangkok airport, about 25 miles
southeast of the capital, in the late 1980s.



-4-
B. Sector Management
1.14      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy, sectoral planning and coordination, regulation and overall invest-
ment budgeting. In its capacity as Thailand's central planning agency, the
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) also particpates
increasingly in sector policy formulation. Responsibility for resource
allocation to and within the sector is shared between the Budget Bureau,
NESDB, Ministry of Finance and Civil Service Commission. The administration
of subsector activities falls, as the case may be, on the parastatal sector
and Government departments nominally under the control of MOC. The parastatal
sector includes the State Railway of Thailand and the Port Authority of
Thailand. Among the principal departments are the Department of Highways,
Harbor Department and Land Transport Department. As an exception to the rule,
rural road functions fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior
(MOI) and its departments, and not MOC.
1.15      At the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU)
was set up in 1974 in MOC to provide MOC with the technical expertise for
transport planning, coordination and policy formulation. Parallel efforts
have been made, with or without Bank assistance, to bolster subsectoral
planning capacities at the departmental or parastatal levels. On the whole,
institutional development in these areas has been considerable though is not
yet entirely sufficient. Since its creation in 1974 and until recently, TPU
has been supported by technical assistance provided through a consulting firm.
Major works completed at the conclusion of the technical assistance program
are a Study of Energy Policies in the Transport Sector and a Road User Taxa-
tion Study, both discussed in more detail hereafter (paras. 1.24 and 2.30).
C. Sector Issues, Policies and Investments
State Enterprises
1.16      Since the construction of the first railway line at the turn of the
century, the Government has established a strong presence in the sector. It
has assumed the function of financing, constructing and maintaining all major
transport infrastructure, and participates directly in the transport industry
through a number of large state enterprises. Apart from its ownership of SRT
and PAT, the Government is the sole or virtually exclusive shareholder in Thai
International Airways, Thai Airways, the Airport Authority of Thailand, the
Express Transport Organization (ETO), the Transport Co. Ltd., Bangkok
Metropolitan Transport Authority (BMTA) and the Thai Maritime Navigation
Company (TMNC).  Further, it has a large interest in the United Thai Shipping
Line. ETO, which is primarily a trucking company with monopoly rights for
PAT traffic, and the Transport Co., which has the exlusive rights for
intercity bus traffic, are discussed in more details hereafter (paras. 2.11
and 2.12, respectively).



- 5 -
1.17       With a changing socio-economic environment, the existence or
performance of state enterprises has become, in specific cases, a subject of
public attention and concern. For example, questions have been raised about
the rationale for subsidizing all railway traffic (including freight on main
lines), or about the rationale for maintaining a high-cost and poor-service ETO
monopoly for ports traffic. Moreover, the financial performance of public sec-
tor enterprises has become a pressing issue, heightened by the current fiscal
crisis. In 1982, for example, four state enterprises incurred a combined loss
of close to B 1,500 million, despite partial monopolies: SRT (B 409 million
net operating loss), ETO (B 105 million), BMTA (B 800 million) and TMNC (B 157
million). Since depreciation, in accordance with Government guidelines, is
based on historic asset values, the actual losses were even higher.
1.18       There is an increasing perception that public enterprises should be
made subject to similar rules of accountability and financial discipline as the
private sector, and face competition in open transport markets. An important
step in this direction will be the transformation of the State Railway's main
line operations, under the proposed Sixth Railway Project, into a commercially
oriented enterprise. Regarding the road transport industry, a Trucking Indus-
try Study is underway, financed under the Provincial Roads Project with the
Land Transport Department as executing agency, which includes a review of ETO;
and a Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport is included in this project,
which will address the questions arising from the Government's ownership of the
Transport Co., as well as questions on the efficient organization and opera-
tions of the entire bus transport industry. Other proposals on state enter-
prises are expected to be enumerated by a Government Subcommittee of the
Administrative Reform Committee, which was constituted as an advisory body to
the Cabinet. Further, under the Government's structural adjustment program,
which is supported by the Bank through structural adjustment loans, the
Government is developing a program to implement reform of state enterprise
finances.
Economic Regulation
1.19       Except for ETO monopolies, trucking operates free of economic
restrictions. Markets are open, and services and rates are determined under
market conditions. Over the years, various attempts were made to introduce
route and area licensing, to control capacities by administrative means and
"adjust" them to the demand.  The attempts were rationalized by the effects
of free trucking on competitors (railway and ETO), and more recently, by
perceived inefficiencies of the trucking industry (para. 2.11). None of the
regulatory proposals appear to be justified, though some nonregulatory
measures seem advisable (para. 2.11), and all attempts for economic
regulation were blocked by the trucking industry and shippers (in particular
the agricultural sector) in the past.
1.20       Inland waterway transport and coastal shipping also operate free of
economic restrictions, except for Government shipments reserved for state
enterprises. Thus, close to 90Q/ of the entire freight transport industry
(Table 1.1, excluding rail) is organized under free market conditions. Rail



-6-
freight services on branch lines are subject to operational restrictions, and
all freight (as well as passenger) tariffs, for years below average cost, are
subject to Cabinet approval.
1.21      Rail passenger transport falls under economic restrictions similar
to rail freight transport. Intercity bus transport provided under the Trans-
port Company franchise is also regulated (para. 2.12).  The Land Transport
Department controls route and industry capacity, and proposals for changes in
levels of tariffs are subject to Cabinet approval. Intercity bus transport
with a 90% share of private capital in the fleet, is however not subsidized by
the Government, in contrast to rail traffic. The franchised intercity bus
transport with about 21% of total passenger transport, produces three times as
many passenger-km as SRT, which has a share of about 7% (Table 1.1). It
follows, that about one-third of all passenger traffic in the country, rail
and intercity commercial road traffic, as well as Bangkok urban traffic, is
subject to some form of economic regulation.
1.22      Economic regulation of the railway, and related rail issues, are the
centerpoint of the proposed Sixth Railway Project. Regulatory issues of the
trucking industry is one of the subjects of the ongoing Trucking Industry
Study. Similarly, regulation of bus transport will be addressed under the
Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport.
Fuel Conservation
1.23      Energy issues pervade the entire Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
(1982-86). A primary objective of the plan is to restructure the domestic
economy toward greater energy efficiency and level off the import of oil
products. A significant burden of restructuring falls upon the transport
sector, which consumes about 40% of petroleum energy used in the country
(Table 1.2). Consumption of motor fuel in the sector has increased during the
seventies at an average rate of about 6.5% p.a., though some of the years have
shown negative growth rates (Table 1.3). Fuel consumption by the transport
sector in 1980, and presumably 1981, may have declined (Tables 1.3 and 1.4),
though it is unclear due to what causes. Within the transport sector (exclud-
ing international aviation and shipping), road transport uses about 95% of all
fuel energy, followed by rail with slightly more than 2%, inland waterways
transport with about 1%, and domestic coastal shipping and aviation making up
the remaining 1-2% (Table 1.5). Within the road sector, about 75% of fuel is
used up by traffic on national and provincial roads, about 5% by traffic on
rural roads and about 20% by urban Bangkok traffic (Table 1.6).  However,
about 55-65% of all road transport consumption is concentrated in a radius of
about 150 km around Bangkok center (Table 1.7), underscoring the high
concentration of private vehicles and high income levels of this area.
1.24      The above statistical findings are contained in the 1982 Study of
Energy Policies in the Trar-port Sector produced in TPU under a technical
assistance program. The cohm1rehensive report contains a lengthy listing of
recommendations to improve fuel conservation in the sector while preserving
sector capacity and efficiency. As a follow-up to the report, MOC recently
completed a draft Action Program for Fuel Conservation in Road Transnort-



- 7 -
Some recommendations in the 1982 study are of immediate relevance, namely to
focus energy conservation policies on improving fuel efficiency of road
transport; to maintain current gasoline price levels in real terms; to
gradually raise the price of diesel fuel up to the level of gasoline; and to
encourage the shift of road transport demand to other modes, in particular
rail, only if there are overall economic justifications and not solely
energy-related reasons. Under an ongoing Bank-financed Petroleum and Natural
Gas Pricing Study (Structural Adjustment Loan 2097-TH), related issues of
fuel pricing are being reviewed. Completion of the study is expected in the
second half of this year.
1.25      The recommendation to direct energy policies at the road subsector
derives from the fact that it consumes about 95% of petroleum energy used in
transport. Significant sector savings can only be made through increased
efficiency of this subsector. Measures to effect these savings include
improved road traffic flows, driver education, phasing-out of obsolete
vehicles, vehicle speed controls, increases in vehicle payloads and flattening
of traffic peaks. The savings will have to be initiated, at least in the
short run, through appropriate fuel pricing policies. The data in Tables 1.3
and 1.4 indicate a high elasticity of demand to prices, and there is no
evidence yet that the present high price levels have a restrictive effect on
the subsector. Moreover it can be assumed that there is considerable scope
for improving fuel efficiency in the subsector without forcing it into an
unwanted contraction. From an energy-economic viewpoint, the large gap
between gasoline and diesel fuel prices (Table 1.8) has no justification.
Regular gasoline retails at B 11.10/1, while diesel retails at B 6.99/1, or
about 37% less. The import and local ex-refinery cost of both fuels are
about the same, and the heat content of diesel even exceeds that of gasoline
by some 10%. Fuel pricing is further discussed in para. 2.34.
1.26      The energy study's recommendation, to encourage a modal shift in
transport demand (in particular from road to rail) only under the condition of
modal and sectoral efFtctency in the use of all econonmc reso)urces, is an
important contribution to the current discussion of the Efifth sectoral plan.
The recommendation is based on the realization that potenttal savings in
energy could easily be wiped out by an increased use of other resources. The
railway sector is already characterized by a situation whereby the existing
demand is critically dependent on substantial subsidies. Higher rail
traffic, in a competitive transport market, could therefore only be achieved
through additional subsidies and, because existing ratl capacity is largely
committed, through new and partly uneconomic rail investments. Apart from
considerattons of efficiency, significant savings in Fuel consumption would
hardly be feasible because of financial constraints. For a hypothetical fuel
saving of about 100,000 toe, that is about 3% of the entire sector's annual
fuel consumption (excluding international aviation and shipping, Table 1.5),
rail investments of at least $1 billion for new transport capacity would be
required. Details of the energy economics of diverting road traffic to rail
are summarized in Table 1.9.



-8-
Investments
1.27       During the Third Five-Year Development Plan in 1972-76, public
sector investments in transport were about B 21 billion in current prices,
and under the Fourth Plan for 1977-81, the expenditures were in the order of
B 19 billion (Table 1.10). Transport-s share of development expenditures,
20% in 1972-76, dropped to about 8% in 1977-81, because of substantial
completion of the interregional road system and progress with the provincial
roads. In both Plan periods, road investments accounted for about 80% of
the sector-s investment expenditures. Within the roads subsector, rural
roads increased their share from about 10% in 1972-76 to about 20% in
1977-81, as a result of the Government's increased emphasis on rural
transport. In fact, since a large percentage of provincial roads (no less
than 50% of total length) carries primarily local rural traffic, the
infrastructure investments for rural transport are much higher.
1.28       The scope, composition and subsectoral balance of the transport
plan are still provisional, even though the Fifth Development Plan for
1982-86 is in its second year. After several downward revisions, the
overall size of the transport plan is now about B 75 billion (Tables 1.10
and 1.11), though it may be scaled down further because of fiscal and
implementation constraints, and to meet standard economic criteria of
justification. The earlier railway investment plan was in the order of B 25
billion, based on a traffic growth target of 10% p.a. throughout 1982-86.
Traffic projections have been reduced since, and correspondingly the revised
investments, as established under the proposed Sixth Railway Project, are
now about B 9 billion. While a large part of the latest sector investment
plan is reasonably justified, there remain several large projects with
questionable economic rationale, including Bangkok rapid transit.
D. Past Bank Lending to the Transport Sector
1.29       The Bank has been involved in all transport modes, except civil
aviation, and helped finance 18 transportation projects. The total amount of
loans (including cancellations) was $501.6 million. The largest recipient of
loan funds was the Department of Highways, with $296.6 million. Next 4in line
were the State Railway of Thailand, with $68.7 million, the Port Authority of
Thailand, with $67.3 million, the Harbour Department, with $53 million, and
the Ministry of Interior, with $16 million for Bangkok traffic improvement.
1.30       Seven loans were made to the Department of Highways (DOH):  341-TH,
signed in June 1963, for US$36 million; 455-TH, signed in June 1966, for
US$35 million; 535-TH, signed in May 1968, for US$29 million; 626-TH, signed



- 9 -
in June 1969, for US$23 million; 870-TH, signed in December 1972, for
US$28.6 million; 1519-TH, signed in March 1978, for US$110 million; and
2035-TH, signed in August 1981, for US$35 million. The loans helped finance
construction of about 2,100 km of national and 1,800 km of provincial roads;
technical assistance for the reorganization of DOH and training of its staff;
a study of road maintenance; equipment for road maintenance and workshops;
technical assistance to the TPU in the MOC; and a series of feasibility and
engineering studies to prepare road projects, including a proposed rural road
project. Bank assistance also has been given to the Office of Accelerated
Rural Development (ARD) for construction of about 1,300 km of village access
roads as part of the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project, Loan
1198-TH. The first four DOH projects were executed efficiently and with
substantial cost savings due to increasing efficiency and competition in the
domestic construction industry, combined with relative stability of domestic
prices.  The fifth project experienced some delays and cost overruns caused by
the sharp oil price increases which required rebidding of several contracts.
The sixth project is over 90% completed.  However, the original closing date
(December 31, 1982) of the loan has required extension by twelve months due
partly to initial delay in awarding one large contract followed by slow
progress by the contractor. The project costs are close to appraisal
estimates. The seventh project, for construction of 740 km of provincial
roads, is under implementation, proceeding well, and the works are expected
to be completed ahead of the original schedule and within the cost
estimates.
1.31      Five loans were made to the State Railway of Thailand:  35-TH,
signed in October 1950, for US$3 million; 128-TH, signed in August 1955, for
US$12 million; 280-TH, signed in April 1961, for US$22 million; 898-TH, signed
in June 1973, for US$15 million; and 1662-TH, signed in April 1979, for
US$16.7 million. The loans provided financing for postwar rehabilitation of
assets; purchase of diesel locomotives, passenger and freight cars to replace
obsolete stock and provide new capacity; replacement of rails; and improvement
of signalling, telecommunications and workshops. The first three railway
projects were completed satisfactorily. About US$7.5 million of the third
loan, earmarked for the purchase of locomotives, was cancelled when the
Borrower chose to purchase the locomotives through procedures which did not
conform to Bank Guidelines. About 80% of the fourth project was completed by
the scheduled date, September 1976, but procurement delays deferred some
project items to the 1977-81 investment plan. US$14.5 million of the original
US$15 million loan was ultimately disbursed; the balance of US$0.5 million was
cancelled at the Borrower's request. The fifth project is underway. Mainly
due to slow progress in procurement of material and equipment, project
execution is behind schedule, and the original closing date (June 30, 1982)
has been extended by one and one-half years.
1.32      Four loans were made to the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT): 37-TH,
signed in October 1950, for US$4.4 million; 151-TH, signed in October 1956,
for US$3.4 million; 702-TH, signed in August 1970, for US$12.5 million; and



- 10 -
1918-TH, signed in December 1980, for US$47 million. The first two projects
were satisfactorily completed on schedule. The third project, also completed,
was delayed by two years because of late awards of civil works contracts.
Project implementation under the fourth loan is about one and one-half years
behind the original schedule due to slow progress in engaging consultants
and changes in Government port development policies.
1.33      Loan 1889-TH, signed in August 1980, was made to the Harbor
Department for improvement of inland waterways and coastal ports. Implemen-
tation is about one year behind schedule because of delays in letting
contracts.
1.34      Loan 1638-TH, signed in January 1979, was made to the Ministry of
Interior under the Bangkok Traffic Management Project. Implementation has
been slower than expected because of lack of progress in institutional
development. The original closing date, September 30, 1982, has therefore
been postponed to June 30, 1985.
1.35      Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been circulated on the
first four highway projects, the Fourth Railway Project, and the Third Port
Project. The main comments on the highway projects concerned overestimation
of construction costs and underestimation of traffic growth. It appeared that
the appraisals had not fully anticipated (a) the rapid development of
domestic contractors (partly fostered by the works financed by the Bank loans)
which stimulated efficiency and intensive competition for civil works
contracts; and (b) the explosive growth of road transport. Particular points
of interest in the PPAR of the Fourth Railway Project were the underestimation
of passenger traffic and the financial difficulties of SRT, both linked to
Government delays in approving tariff increases. A main comment of the PPAR
for the port project was that PAT could have financed a larger part of
investments without detriment to its financial health.
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.01      The public road network totals about 150,000 km, consisting of about
14,300 km of national roads, 28,400 km of provincial roads (Table 2.1), and
about 106,000 km of rural roads. Further, there is an unspecified length
of footpaths and tracks. The national (or primary) road system connects the
principal towns and regional centers throughout the country. The provincial
(or secondary) road system connects the provincial centers, and other towns,
with the national road system and iiiterconnects the rural roads; furthermore,
it is a very extensive system and gives the only direct access to a
substantial proportion of the villages and rural population. The rural (or
tertiary) roads connect the remaining villages and rural population with the
provincial and national road systems. The Northeast Region has the greatest
length of national and provincial roads, with a share of 29%, followed by
the North with 28%, the Central Region with 24% and the South with 19%



- 11 -
(Tables 2.2 and 2.3). For rural roads, the approximate regional distribution
is Northeast 44%, North 22%, Central 21% and South 13%.
2.02      Since 1963, the national road system has grown from 9,000 km to
14,300 km, and the proportion paved has increased from 46% to over 99%.
Meanwhile, the provincial road system has grown from about 8,000 km to
28,400 km, while the proportion paved has increased from about 3% to 37%.
During the same period the length of improved (paved and gravel) provincial
roads has grown from about 2,200 km to about 16,700 km. However, this rate
of improvement has not kept pace with the large expansion of the provincial
road system, and the length of unimproved provincial roads has grown from
about 5,800 km to 11,700 km. A comprehensive inventory of rural roads has
been drawn up under the Study of Rural Roads (para. 2.19). Most of these
roads are unimproved.
2.03      The national road system is now generally well defined, and almost
entirely improved and paved. Most roads have adequate alignment and width for
the present traffic. However, a few sections are becoming inadequate in width
and other geometric standards for the increasing traffic volumes, principally
on the main routes radiating from Bangkok, and a small number of additional
l-nks will be required to complete the network and to shorten some routes. An
immediate problem is the increasing length of the older paved national roads
which need strengthening. This was investigated as part of the Study of
National and Provincial Roads, under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH),
which identified about 3,000 km where pavement strengthening or rehabilitation
was already needed or would be needed by 1985 (para. 3.09).
2.04      The provincial road system has been expanding rapidly, mostly
through reclassification but also by new construction. Future expansicn of
the provincial road system is likely to be much slower. It is already
very extensive, but most of its roads are presently of inadequate standards.
Some roads are classified as provincial chiefly for their security
functions. There is a great need to upgrade provincial roads, especially
the nearly 12,000 km of "unimproved" roads, virtually all of which serve as
rural access roads. These roads have not been constructed to defined
engineered standards and are generally sunken and poorly drained, often lack
permanent drainage structures and have little gravel surfacing; many
sections are impassable during rainy weather.
2.05      The rural road system is also very extensive, with an average
density of about 1 km per 5 sq km. The roads are of low standard, averaging
about 4.5 m width, but traffic is generally less than 30 aadt. In the dry
season about two thirds of the roads are usually in fair condition, and one
third bad.  During the rainy season many roads become impassable.  Improve-
ment of rural roads to engineered standards has so far been largely limited
to some regional development projects, principally in the Northeast, but



- 12 -
more recently also in parts of the Northern and Southern regions. Low-grade
works have been undertaken on a large proportion of the rural roads, chiefly
through employment generation and village development programs. The most
urgent need is for regular maintenance. However, the Study of Rural Roads
has recently prepared proposals for a national program of rural road
improvement and for institution building at national level and for the large
number of local authorities involved. The proposals include the establish-
ment of an adequate maintenance organization for rural roads and the
build-up of capability for planning and execution of development programs.
B. Road Transport
Motor Vehicle Fleet
2.06      The country's motor vehicle fleet, including motorcylces, ha;s
grown from about 738,000 units in 1970 to 2,178,000 units in 1981, at an
average annual rate of about 10%.  Excluding motorcycles, the increase was
from 400,000 to 1,037,000 units, with an annual growth rate of about 9%Y
(Table 2.4). Thus, the fleet including (excluding) motorcycles, has
expanded over this period by a factor of almost 3 (about 2.6). Commercial
vehicles - buses, trucks, other utility vehicles - account for a least 60%
of four-wheel vehicles, with cars making up the remainder. Light buses and
light trucks, which frequently serve as dual purpose passenger and freight
vehicles, have a combined share of about 40% (Table 2.5). Almost 55% of
all vehicles, exclusive of motorcycles, are registered in Bangkok. The
majority of all cars and taxis (78%) and light and heavy buses (71%), but
only a much smaller percentage of all categories of trucks (28%), are
registered there (Table 2.6).
Traffic
2.07      Motorized traffic (excluding motorcycles) on nat:onal, provincial
and rural roads, that is on all roads except those in towns, was in the
order of 18 billion vehicle-km in 1978 (Table 2.7). Under the assumption of
a growth rate of 7% p.a. since, current traffic would therefore be about 25
billion vehicle-km. About 40% of this traffic is concentrated in the Central
Region, highlighting Bangkok-s leading role as the country s center for
Government, commerce, industry and transport. About 19% of the vehicle-km
are recorded in the Northeast; about 18% in the North; and about 12% in the
South.  Bangkok municipality accounts for about 11% (Table 2.8).  National
and provincial roads in the larger Bangkok Metropolis, defined as the area
within a radius of 150 km around Bangkok center, carried a't least 50% cf
those roads  traffic.  There are no estimates for Bangkok municipal roads
(other than national and provincial roads), though on the basis of vehicle
registration data (Table 2.6), this traffic should be at least in the order
of 2-4 billion vehicle-km per year. Non-motorized vehicle traffic on
national and provincial roads is virtually non-existent, and on rural roads,
exceptional.



- 13 -
2.0      About 93% of the nonurban traffic (excluding motorcycles) is
concentrated on the national and provincial roads (about 43,000 km total
length). The remainder, 7%, is distributed over the rural roads (about
106,000 kmn). The national and provincial roads system shows great varia-
tions in traffic density. About 15% of the system, mostly consisting of
national roads, account for about 55% of traffic, and about 33% of the road
length accounts for 75-80% of traffic (Table 2.9). The top-listed 15% of
roads carried an average daily traffic (excluding motorcycles) of between
2,000 and over 10,000 vehicles in 1978, and many are candidates for
strengthening and rehabilitation under this project.
2.09      The average vehicle mix on national and provincial roads is as
follows (1978): cars and taxis make up about 34% of all vehicles, followed
by heavy trucks (more than four wheels) with 21%, light trucks with 19%,
light buses (four vehicles) with 18%, and heavy buses, about 7% (Table
2.10).  In the Bangkok metropolitan area, there is a much stronger pre;3on-
derance of cars, whereas in the rural areas, in particular outside the
Bangkok zone of influence, truck and light bus traffic is more dominant.
During the seventies, the share of cars and taxis has gradually declined
from about 39% to 34%, and by contrast, light truck traffic has increased
from about 13% to 19%.
2.10      Average growth of vehicle traffic (excluding maotorcycles) on
national and provincial roads was 7% p.a. from 1972 to 1978 (Table 2.11).
Light trucks were leading with a rate of about 15% p.a., followed next by
light buses with close to 9% p.a. On the other side of the spectrum, lheavy
buses had the lowest increase with 2.5% p.a., and cars and taxis grew at
only about 4% p.a. The relatively high growth rates of light buses and
trucks are a sign of the versatility of these vehicle types and the sp:read
of motorized transport to rural areas. TPU and consultants estimate the
traffic on national and provincial roads will grow at a rate of about 6%
p.a. during the eighties, despite some indications that traffic might have
weakened in 1980 and 1981 (Table 1.4).  However, the available statist:cs
are not conclusive as they do not differentiate between Bangkok and other
traffic, nor between use of diesel fuel for transport and nontransport
activities. Also, they could simply reveal greater fuel efficiency in
vehicle operation. In the forecasts for the eighties, light trucks are
expected to continue their accelerated growth.
Transport Industry
2.11      The total number of freight vehicles operating in the country
(1978) is about 230,000 light trucks and 100,000 heavy trucks (Table 2.5).
By some estimates, over 50% of heavy trucks are for hire.  Most trucking
firms have only one (heavy) truck, managed and run by the owner-operator.
However, there are a few firms with several hundred vehicles each, and one



- 14 -
firm, the Government-owned Express Transport Organization, on the strength of
its transport monopolies, has about 1,000 trucks. For the monopoly traffic,
for which it does not have adequate capacity, it hires privately-owned trucks.
Various charges, combined with a request for economic regulation, have been
leveled against the trucking industry: that the fierce competition within the
industry and with the railway is "destructive"; and that trucks have a high
percentage of empty hauls, and therefore "waste" fuel and other resources.
The merits of these charges are being dealt with under the Trucking Industry
Study. Other points frequently raised are the overloading of trucks and the
adequacy of truck user charges. Overloading is a fairly common problem as
indicated in a survey conducted in 1978-79 (Table 2.12). It has implications
for the design of road pavements and raises questions about the enforcement of
road traffic laws. It may further suggest a review of regulations on vehicle
weights and dimensions (para. 2.13). Truck user charges apparently need a
slight upward adjustmetnt (para. 2.33).
2.12      The country's bus fleet consists of about 105,000 vehicles (1978),
of which about 86,000 are light buses and 19,000 heavy buses (Table 2.5).
There is incomplete information on the structure of the bus transport
industry, except Bangkok metropolitan transport (BMTA) and the Transport
Company Ltd. franchise operating outside the capital. To close this and other
information gaps, and conduct a review of industry-wide performance and
issues, a Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport is included in this
project. The Transport Company has held, in the last 15 years, the franchise
for exclusive bus services in the country except for Bangkok. The franchise
comprises about 5,500 heavy buses, of which about 10% are owned by the
Transport Company and 90% by private companies.  The franchise distinguishes
bus routes between Bangkok and the provinces and between provinces only.
There are about 220 such routes with transport being provided by about 3,300
vehicles (Table 2.13). A further category of routes is for bus services
within the same province. The Transport Company charges the private firms a
franchise fee in the range of B10,000 to B250,000 per bus which entitles them
to operate during a five-year period. Revenues from fee collection are used
for investments in bus terminals and stations.  The franchise appears Fo
provide reasonably good quality bus transport under a system of controLled
capacity.
Regulations on Vehicle Specifications
2.13      The last significant amendments to Government regulations on vehicle
weights and discussions were made in 1976, following a review by consultants
as part of a Hlighway Maintenance Study financed under the Fifth Highway
Project (Loan 870-Tit). The maximum legal axle load is 9.1 metric tons. The
maximi.um gross weight of a three-axle vehicle is 21.0 tons, of a semitrailer,
37.4 tons, and of a truck and trailer combination, 43.4 tons. Under the
Provincial Roads Project, the Government undertook to review the regulations
in light of the TPU studies on energy policies and road user taxation (para.
1.15), which have now been completed. Additional background information is



- 15 -
expected from the Trucking Industry Study and an ongoing traffic safety
study (para. 2.14). At negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will
complete the review of road vehicle regulations by June 30, 1984.
Traffic Safety
2.14      Traffic accidents and fatalities constitute a growing and recognized
socio-economic problem in Thailand. In 1980, for example, about 4,500 fata-
lities were reported, with an estimated 50% on national and provincial roads.
However, accidents are neither accurately nor completely recorded, nor have
comprehensive, coordinated and effective measures been taken to prevent
them. On many highways, speeding is common (including by heavy buses), and
driving behavior is often not in conformity with existing traffic laws. In
recognition of the pressing problem, the Department of Highways, under ADB
financing, commissioned in 1982 a Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety
Study. The study, which was recently completed in draft final, reviews the
adequacy of laws and regulations governing traffic safety, accident re,aorting
procedures, Highway Police activities and the interlinkages of highway
design and safety. Follow-up monographs will be prepared on selected safety
issues. Another supplemental study under proposed Japanese funding is under
consideration, whose main objective would be to draw up a "Traffic Safesty
Program" for national and provincial roads.
C. Administration
General
2.15      The MOC is responsible, through its DOH, for the administration,
planning, construction, and maintenance of the national and provincial road
systems. The 73 provinces (Changwats) and municipalities, under the
Ministry of Interior (MOI), are generally responsible for the rural roads,
assisted by a number of central Government agencies. Other Central
Government departments and agencies build and maintain roads for special
purposes; for example the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) in the Ministry
of Agriculture builds and maintains roads serving irrigation projects; the
Ministry of Defense, through its Mobile Defense Unit, and the Army build
roads for national defense and internal security. Because of its
established road maintenance capacity, the DOH is under strong pressure' to
take more and more rural roads into its provincial road system, which has
grown rapidly and is now very extensive (para. 2.04). However, the DOE" only
accepts such transfers when the roads fit logically into a provincial
(secondary) roads system.
Department of Highways
2.16      The DOH has an organization adequate for its functions (Chart).
Ihe present organization dates essentially from 1964-67 when it was revised



- 16 -
with the assistance of USAID. It was slightly modified in 1976, following
the HIighway Maintenance Study under the Fifth Highway Project, to give
greater emphasis to maintenance of national and provincial roads. Technical
assistance for the department is now needed only for the introduction of
special management and operational techniques. An important case is the
"Revolving Fund" system for the administration and funding of maintenance
equipment through an internal hiring system, recently set up with technical
assistance provided under the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project
(para. 2.41). A limited amount of additional technical assistance is needed
to help improve the system in the light of experience with its operation and
to help further develop the programming of road maintenance.
2.17      The MOC, through its DOH, is responsible for the classification of
roads and road systems, for the initiation of legislation concerning the
construction, maintenance and protection of roads, and for the preparation
of programs and budgets for the development and maintenance of national and
provincial roads. The MOC is also responsible for initiating and adminis-
tering legislation on the use of roads, including the licensing of
commercial vehicles.
Provinces (Changwats)
2.18      The Changwats have generally only rudimentary road works organi-
zations.  Strengthening them presents a major problem because of their large
number (73), the small volume of their work, and the lack of a clear
national policy for the development and financing of local institutions for
public works. Some assistance has been given to a number of Changwats by
various Government agencies, chiefly the Office of Accelerated Rural
Development (ARD) and the Public Works Department (PWD), both in the MOI.
2.19      To prepare a program of institutional development for rural roads,
and to prepare a national development plan, a Study of Rural Roads was
included in the Sixth Htighway Project (Loan 1519-TH). The study was started
in October 1980 and completed in September 1982. It prepared alternative
proposals for reorganization ranging from minimum adjustments, aimed at sim-
plifying responsibilities for roads among existing agencies of the MOI, to
suggestions for more radical reorganization. The proposals include the
establishment, in stages, of a maintenance organization, in association with
the Changwats, for the rural road network. The study also prepared an
inventory of the rural roads, an indicative long range program of develop-
ment, and identified about 4,000 km of priority roads for an immediate
development program.  The Government is presently reviewing the proposals
and is starting to prepare, with firnancing under the first Provincial loads
Project (Loan 2035-TH), a project for improvement of rural roads and for
setting up a pilot maintenance system in selected changwats.
D. Staff and Training
2.20       For the DOH professional staff, external assistance and training
is now required only in specialized subjects. For other subjects, cou:cses



- 17 -
are available at Thai universities. Altogether 41 professional staff of DOH
have completed overseas training courses under the First, Third and Fifth
Highway Projects. Nine staff members of DOH, and four of the Transport
Planning Unit (TPU) of the MOC, have completed overseas training under the
Sixth Highway Project and a further two of DOH and one of TPU are now
attending courses. The MOC is sending a further 12 staff members of the DOH
on such courses under the first Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH). The
Training Division of the DOH, which has a staff of about 20, organizes a
continuing series of formal in-house training courses in technical and
administrative subjects. Instructors are mainly senior staff of the
Department. DOH also has a training school for equipment operators with
resident courses lasting several months. In addition to these formal zourses,
DOH has on-the-job training in all its field divisions. Furthermore, it
trains field staff through eight local construction units which were set up
with bilateral financing by Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Two of them are
still provided with staff and equipment under Australian and Japanese aid.
2.21      The recommendations of the Study of Rural Roads (para. 2.19) for the
development of institutions, include proposals for training of local
government staff concerned with local (rural) roads.
E. Planning
National and Provincial Roads
2.22      The DOH, through its Planning Division, is responsible for tAe
planning of development programs, and the drafting of annual budgets, Eor the
national and provincial roads. The programs include construction,
improvement, strengthening and rehabilitation. Planning is based on road
inventories and traffic data. Inventories for most roads have initially been
prepared by consultants, but updating is undertaken by DOH staff. Traffic
counting, also by DOH staff, is carried out on all national roads and on most
provincial roads. Counting for the remaining provincial roads, chiefly those
added to the system during the last few years, is being organized; also the
locations of some existing traffic counting points are being adjusted. During
negotiations, the Government should confirm it will continue to make adequate
arrangements for collection and analysis of traffic data for national and
provincial roads.
2.23      The normal procedure of the Planning Division for preparing
development programs for the national and provincial roads is first to
invite proposals for improvements from the DOH-s field divisions, provincial
authorities, and other Ministr:ies and Departments. It then undertakes a
field reconnaissance of each road, and collects data for a preliminary
assessment of the work, cost and project economics. Then it ranks the
proposals in approximate order of priority and prepares initial drafts for



- 18 -
proposed development programs.  For the smaller projects, particularly those
financed wholly from the Government budget, little further preparation is
undertaken, other than detailed engineering. However, for major construc-
tion projects, feasibility studies are carried out, usually by consultants
because of the limited capacity of DOH. For the main work programs,
including those financed by foreign agencies, DOR usually employs joinlt
ventures of foreign and local consulting firms.
2.24      For the preparation of its proposals for the Fifth Five-Year
Development Plan 1982-86, the DOH was assisted by consultants (joint
US/Thai) financed under the Sixth Highway Project (para. 2.03). In the
first phase, all national and provincial roads were reviewed to assess
improvement priorities. Under the second phase, more detailed feasibi:lity
studies were undertaken for investments likely to be justified during
1982-86. The depth of study was tailored to the individual requirements of
the roads. For most roads, relatively simple engineering and economic
reconnaissance surveys and analyses were carried out. In some cases,
including those involving alternative alignments, full scale feasibility
studies have followed.
Rural Roads
2.25      The ARD and PWD carry out planning and engineering for most of
those rural road improvements which include substantial amounts of work.
Minor road works are prepared by the Changwats. Efforts have been made to
involve Changwats in rural road planning, but success is limited by the
Changwats- presently low capabilities. The projects are usually chosen on
very general economic, administrative, security and political considerations
and only limited quantitative evaluations are usually carried out. However
proposals for developing planning capabilities for rural roads and for an
initial development program have been prepared through the Study of Rural
Roads (para. 2.19).
Road Program Review, Coordination and Approval
2.26      Draft road development programs prepared by the DOH and by
Departments in other Ministries, including ARD and PWD, are reviewed by a
committee of the Ministry concerned, usually under the chairmanship of the
Minister. Thereafter they are subject to review by the inter-ministerial
Land Transport Coordination Committee, under the aegis of the MOC, to
coordinate the programs of the various agencies concerned with land trans-
port. The draft programs are then submitted to the NESDB, where they are
further reviewed, particularly regarding the size of the programs as a whole,
and national priorities. Finally, the programs require Cabinet approval.
The road projects included in the development programs are based as far as
possible on economic criteria. However, many roads ate included for such
reasons as for regional balance and politics, defense and internal security.
Even after approval, the programs are periodically reviewed and revisedl,



- 19 -
sometimes to reflect changed priorities, but mainly to adjust them to
F[nances available, since many projects in a number of the programs have not
been fully studied and cost estimates are often unrealistic.
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
2.27      The current road subsector plan (1982-86) calls for total invest-
ments of about B 35 billion and work on about 32,000 km of roads (Table 2.14).
About B 7.7 billion (22%) are earmarked for national roads, B 12 billion (34%)
for provincial roads, and B 15 billion (44%) for rural roads. Thus, the trend
towards increased expenditures on rural transport (rural roads and part of
provincial roads), started under the Fourth Plan, is being continued. The
overall size of the road subsector plan is fully justified in relation to the
entire (provisional) transport plan (B 75 billion), given the dominance of
road transport. Under the Fourth Plan (1977-81), only about 60% of the
approved physical program was completed due to a shortfall in funding and
inflation. About 50% of the proposed investments (more than 80% of proposed
road length) for national roads are aimed at rehabilitating existing roads
with high traffic volumes, which is consistent with the Fifth Plan obj(ective
of giving first priority to the preservation and maintenance of roads. In
case of the provincial roads, which have smaller traffic loads and lesser
deterioration, the focus is on paving (and general upgrading in standard) of
about 6,000 km of "unimproved" roads. This program, covering about 90% of the
provincial roads proposed, will primarily benefit rural areas where traffic
flows until now have been too low to justify the investments.  The remaining
10% of the provincial roads proposals are mostly for upgrading from eartCl to
gravel roads, also primarily in rural areas. The rural roads program places
emphasis on road construction, followed by road improvements. About two-
thirds of this program are expected to be executed by ARD, and the remainder
by PWD and RID.
2.28      Apart from being well focused and properly balanced, the road sub-
sector program is also economically well justified. Most proposals fo^
national and provincial roads are dertived from the studies listed in
para. 2.24, and some programs, such as that for provincial roads
improvements and pavement rehabilitation included in this project, wilL
be subject to further analysis (paras. 3.07 and 3.09). The rural road;
program is based on planning criteria developed by the exec.it,ig ageru:Ies,
supplemented by the findings of the Rural Roads Study.
F. Financing
2.29      Road expenditures are financed from general budgetary revenues
and from foreign loans and grants. Road user taxes are not earmarked,
except for the relatively small proceeds from vehicle registration fees,



- 20 -
which are distributed among the Police Department and area administrations.
In recent years, external funding of investments for national and provincial
roads amounted to around 8-10% of total expenditures and 12-19% of road
construction and improvement (Table 2.15). The Asian Development Bank, OECF
and the World Bank have been, and are expected to remain under the Fifth Plan,
the principal sources of external financing.
2.30      Road user taxation issues were analysed in TPUts 1982 Road User
Taxation Study. Tax collections from the road sector have steeply increased
since the mid-seventies at an average rate of about 17% p.a. to reach a level
of B 10.6 billion in 1979 (Table 2.16). Preliminary data suggest that the
revenue collection in 1980 increased at an even higher rate. About 63% (1979)
of the revenues came from taxes levied on motor fuels (import duty, business,
municipal and excise taxes), 26% from taxes levied on vehicles, parts and
accessories (customs duty), 10% from registration and annual license fees, and
1% from miscellaneous sources. The total tax collection is composed of a
"normal" tax element, corresponding to the taxation of comparable business and
sector activities, and a surcharge element (designated as "overtaxation" in
the study), which is the "road user charge". By estimates of TPU and
consultants, the road user charge component was 63-69% of total road sector
tax receipts in 1975-79.
2.31      About 60% of the receipts from road user charges were related to
traffic on national and provincial roads (Table 2.17). The other 40% came
from rural and urban roads, with the latter possibly accounting for up to 30%.
Among vehicles on national and provincial roads, passenger cars, as expected,
contributed the most, with a share of total road user charges (1980) of about
35%, followed by light trucks with 17% (Table 2.18). As a reference, cars and
light buses represent about 34% and 19% respectively of the vehicles on these
roads (Table 2.10).
2.32      Aggregate receipts from road user charges on national and provincial
roads were about 67% of aggregate total expenditures in 1975-80, and about
202% of the aggregate marginal infrastructure cost, which depend on the use of
roads (Tables 2.15, 2.17 and 2.19). Roughly one-third of road infrastructure
costs are a function of road use, and about two-thirds are independent (Table
2.19). It should be noted that above cost coverage was achieved during a
period of rapid network expansion and improvement. In the coming years,
equivalent investments are expected to slow down considerably, thus raising
the total cost coverage further and possibly balancing road user charge
receipts with total road expenditures. From a fiscal viewpoint, this is very
satisfactory. From an efficiency viewpoint, derived from the principle of
marginal cost pricing, this is less than satisfactory, as the aggregate
of road user charges by far exceeds the aggregate marginal infrastructure
cost. However, there may be compelling fiscal and energy-related reasons for
continuing the level of aggregate taxation.
2.33      Passenger cars, light buses and light trucks more than adequately
cover their marginal cost. Heavy buses also fully cover these costs, but
heavy trucks do not. For the latter, the ratio of road user charges to
marginal cost is estimated at only about 0.5-0.7 (Table 2.20), as these



- 21 -
vehicle types primarily are responsible for the user-related damage of road
pavements. To make heavy trucks fully pay for the cost they cause, ar.
additional tax of about B 0.38/ vehicle-km for typical 6-wheel trucks and B
0.25/vehicle-km for typical 10-wheel (3 axle) trucks should be imposed. This
tax would increase the vehicle operating cost by about 5% and 2.5%
respectively (Tables 2.21 and 2.22).
2.34      Measures to increase road user charges on heavy trucks would prefer-
ably include an increase in diesel fuel taxes, to narrow the retail price
differential hetween diesel and gasoline and to stimulate fuel conservation
(para. 1.25).  To the extent that the additional fuel taxes would fall short
of achieving full coverage of marginal (infrastructure) cost for trucks, the
levels of other taxes (e.g. vehicle registration fees) should be raised.
Conversely, compensating tax relief for smaller diesel-powered vehicles should
be envisaged, if their cost coverage became excessive. In any case, tax
increases for heavy trucks should be synchronized with the reduction and ulti-
mate elimination of subsidies for the railway's main line freight operations,
to avoid an increase in existing modal distortion. Finally, for fiscal,
efficiency and energy-economic reasons, gasoline should be adequately taxed
and priced. Provision was made under the Structural Adjustment Loans No.
2097-TH and 2256-TH for the drafting of an Action Plan for energy pricing by
December 31, 1983. During negotiations for this project, it was agreed that
the Action Plan will specifically deal with fuel pricing in transport and
road user taxation on the basis of the findings from the Petroleum and
National Gas Pricing Study (para. 1.24), the Study of Energy Policies in
Transport and the Road User Taxation Study (para. 1.15).
C. Engineering
2.35      Engineering of the national and provincial roads is the responsibi-
lity of the Location and Design Division of the DOH.  The division undertakes
a portion of such work itself, within the limits of its capacity, chiefly for
smaller projects financed directly by the budget. For the remaining engin-
eering, especially for projects financed under external aid, the department
employs consultants. Almost all the firms engaged on detailed engineering are
Thai, as the domestic consultants have greatly expanded in numbers and
capability in recent years. Foreign consultants are employed only to a
limited extent, chiefly on feasibility and specialized studies. Even then,
the foreign firms operate in joint venture with Thai consultants and employ
only a few key foreign staff.



- 22 -
2.36      The DOH has a range of design standards for national and provin-
cial roads which are appropriate to the road class, terrain and traffic
volumes (Table 2.23). It has also established design standards for rural
roads, chiefly for use by the ARD and PWD which are responsible for designs
under rural roads projects. These departments undertake some design work
themselves, within their capacities, but employ consultants, chiefly Thai,
for the majority of their work.
H. Construction
2.37      The DOH, through its National Highways and Provincial Roads
Construction Divisions, is responsible for construction of national and
provincial roads. Provincial road construction by DOH includes the
improvement of existing provincial roads, and of some rural roads which are
to be incorporated into the provincial road system. About 90% of DOH
construction is by contract. The rest is by force account, largely
undertaken for training purposes by eight training centers set up with
bilateral aid (para. 2.20). Road construction by ARD and PWD is now also
predominantly by contract. Some small projects, undertaken by the
provinces, districts and groups of villages, are largely constructed by
force account with a higher proportion of hand labor.
2.38      The Thai contracting industry has evolved during the past 1, years
or so from infancy to maturity. There are now many domestic firms fully
capable of undertaking major projects and very competitive with foreign
contractors. In the early Bank-financed road projects only about a quarter
of the work was won by domestic contractors and, on some contracts, the work
was only completed with difficulty, delay, and in a few cases bankruptcies.
But gradually the domestic firms have taken an increasing share, and under
the ongoing Sixth Highway and first Provincial Roads Projects, Thai firms
won all the contracts in competition with many foreign firms, and they are
carrying out the work satisfactorily. The evolution of the domestic
industry can be attributed to initiative of local entrepreneurs fostered by
the Government's policy of carrying out an overwhelming proportion of its
large and continuous stream of road works by contracts awarded through
competitive bidding.
I.  Maintenance
2.39      Maintenance of the national and provincial road systems (Table
2.1) is the responsibility of the DOH. The work is planned and supervised
by its Maintenance Division and is carried out by its 12 Field Divisions,
and 76 Field Districts. Maintenance of most rural roads is the responsi-
bility of the 73 provinces (changwats), in a few cases with assistance from
ARD, PWD and the municipalities. Roads required primarily for the operation
of irrigation projects are maintained by the RID, and some national defense
roads, mainly in the frontier areas, are maintained by the army.



- 23 -
2.40      The organization and capability of the DOH for road maintenance
has greatly improved over the last 17 years. However, up to 1980 mainte-
nance was not adequate because of insufficient budgetary provisions.
Routine maintenance of the national and provincial roads, which includes
patching of surfaces, clearing of drains, repairs of bridges, grass cutting
etc., is generally satisfactory. However, until the last two years there
has been quite inadequate budgetary provision for periodic maintenance, such
as resurfacing of bituminous paved roads, reshaping and resurfacing gravel
roads, and regravelling of shoulders. A large backlog of such work thus
accumulated.
2.41      A Highway Maintenance Study was carried out under the Fifth High-
way Project which formulated an eight-year program 1979-86 of maintenance
for the national and provincial roads to overcome the backlog, with
estimated annual budgets, including the amounts needed for routine and
periodic maintenance. The study also estimated the equipment needed by the
DOH to perform routine maintenance by force account. The equipment was
procured under the Sixth Highway Project, together with some additional
equipment for the 12 divisional workshops which were set up and equipped
partly with assistance under previous Bank-financed projects. Periodiz
maintenance is predominantly carried out by contract. An increasing annual
volume of such work is helping stimulate the development of domestic
contracting firms in the regions. Also under the Sixth Highway Project,
technical assistance has been provided to help DOH set up an internal hiring
system ("Revolving Fund") for the maintenance equipment; the system aims to
improve the efficiency of equipment management and utilization, and to
provide for the prompt supply of spare parts and for funding the regular
replacement of worn out equipment. DOH set up during 1981 the essential
organization and accounting systems to operate the "Revolving Fund."
However, although the establishment of the fund was approved in principle by
the Government, it could not be implemented until the required legal,
administrative and financial procedures were clarified and effected. This
took longer than expected and the effective operation of the fund was
eventually started at the beginning of the fiscal year, October 1, 1982.
2.42      Maintenance expenditures on national and provincial roads increased
slowly from B 234 million (US$11.5 million) in 1967 to B 811 million
(US$40.0 million) in 1980./i The increase was small in real terms and the
amounts were inadequate for the growing road system and rapidly increasing
traffic volumes. Expenditures rose to B 1,045 million (US$45.4 million) in
1981, and further to B 1,462 million (US$63.6 million) in 1982, but these
amounts were still only about 66% and 78% of the estimated annual require-
ments of the eight-year maintenance program, updated to current prices.
The budgetary provision for 1983 has been further increased to B 1,873
million (US$81.4 million), about 90% of the estimate under the program..
The Government has prepared updated estimated maintenance requirements (with
/1 At exchange rate of US$1.0 = B 20.40 before 1981.



- 24 -
costs in FY83 prices) for the remaining years FY84-FY86 of the eight-year
maintenance program and for a further two years FY87 and FY88. These
estimates were reviewed and agreed during negotiations (Table 2.24).
2.43      Maintenance of rural roads, by the provinces (changwats) and
municipalities, is generally very poor. A few changwats have received
assistance, including some maintenance equipment, but the remainder have
virtually no equipment, nor adequate staff and finances. Only about 15% of
the rural roads are regularly maintained. Improvement of maintenance (as
well as other road functions) of these local authorities will be a major
task. Proposals for tackling these problems on a national scale have been
prepared, for consideration by the Government, through the Study of Rural
Roads (para. 2.19).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Objectives
3.01      The Fifth National Economic and Social Development Plan raises
several issues of direct relevance to transport. Among the more important
are the efficiency and fiscal effects of public and private sector activi-
ties, and the role and performance of state enterprises in the economy; the
level and structure of national energy consumption; and rural and agricul-
tural development.  Since the Fifth Plan outline was circulated some two
years ago, economic and fiscal developments in the country have underscored
the need to address these issues as a matter of urgency and priority. This
project contains an investment and policy package under which related
sectoral issues will be addressed.
3.02      Under the project's proposed investment package, capital will be
channelled into the preservation or rehabilitation of deteriorating trunk
roads, and into the upgrading of rural transport infrastruicture. The road
strengthening/rehabilitation component is the first effort: on such a scale,
to restore the deteriorated condition of many sections of primary highways
built some 10-15 years ago, strengthen their pavements to carry the greatly
increased traffic and so prevent otherwise costlier reconstruction of roads
as well as higher road user costs. The provincial roads component will be
an extension of a program which was stepped up following the near completion
of the national roads network, and which aims at extending the provincial
network into rural Thailand, where it will link the rural roads with the
inter-regional and interprovincial roads system. In many cases, moreover,
provincial roads are the only link between rural settlements and the
next-in-line commercial, administrative, educational and hlealth centers.
3.03      Under the policy package, an Action Plan will be drawn up for road
transport to stimulate fuel conservation and reinforce the principle of
economic decision making on the basis of benefits and costs (para. 2.34).



- 25 -
With the Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport, the degree of efficiency
of the bus transport industry will be reviewed as a complement to the
parallel Study of the Trucking Industry (para. 1.18).
3.04      All investments are of high priority, and have been or are being
carefully scrutinized to ensure their economic and engineering viabilitt'i.
The provincial roads component of the project will be a continuation of
the ongoing program under the first Provincial Roads Project. That project
was substantially smaller than had been expected because of the Government's
borrowing limitations at that time. The new project will get underwaY as
ongoing works are running down and so maintain the momentum of the needed
provincial roads program. Also importantly, under present conditions of
slower economic growth, the project will help fill a possible gap in
external resource transfer and help provide a reasonable level of work; for
the important construction industry.
B. Description
3.05      The project consists of;
(a)  construction and improvement, including supervision by
consultants, of about 1,000 km of provincial roads;
(b)  strengthening or rehabilitation, including supervision by
consultants, of about 1,000 km of paved national and pro-
vincial roads;
(c)  sector and project preparation studies, including engineer-
ing, for future road projects, by consultants; and
(d)  technical assistance, by consultants, to the DOI,L to help
improve the programming and implementation of road mainte-
nance, and to the MOC (TPU) to assist in transport sector
and policy studies.
Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads
3.06      About 40 sections of provincial roads totalling about 1,000 km will
be constructed or improved. The roads will generally follow the alignments
of existing low standard roads or tracks, but surfaces will be improved and
the road bed raised and widened, where needed, drainage inproved and
permanent bridges and culverts built. About 60% of the roads will receive a
bituminous paved surface and the remainder gravel.  Design standards will
range from F.6 with a gravel surface to F.3, with double bituminous surface
treatment (DBST), or asphalt concrete (AC) as required for the estimated
traffic (Table 2.23).



- 26 -
3.07      The eligible project roads totaling 2,870 km and 98 sections
(Table 3.1), were selected from a list of about 6,000 km on which
preliminary feasibility studies were completed by consultants Louis Berger
International (US), in joint venture with Asian Engineering Consultants
(THAI) as part of the Study of National and Provincial Roads in 1980 under
the Sixth Ilighway Project (Loan 1519-TH). Of these 2,870 km of roads, final
feasibility studies and detailed engineering have already been completed for
about 770 km (27 roads), of which about 700 km will constitute the first
year's program of the project (Table 3.2). The Government is also having
final feasibility studies and detailed engineering undertaken for the
remaining roads (para. 3.19). During negotiations, these points were
confirmed: Any road selected is required to have an economic rate of
return, based on detailed engineering, of not less than 1;2%; and the road
selection is subject to agreement between the Government and the Bank after
review of the final feasibility studies and detailed engineering.
Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
3.08      About 50 sections of existing paved roads totalling about 1,000 km
will be strengthened or rehabilitated. Nearly all are national roads, but a
few are provincial roads, and they have exceeded their design lives in terms
of the cumulative volumes of traffic carried. The road sections are suffer-
ing increasing deformation and failures. A growing lengtlhi urgently needs
strengthening by the addition of a substantial extra thiclkness of pavement.
Some of the roads have so deteriorated as first to need rehabilitation to
restore them to approximately their original condition, usually involving
extensive patching or even reconstruction of short lengths of pavement.
3.09      The Study of National and Provincial Roads (para. 3.07) included
field testing in 1980 of pavement strength and roughness of all paved
national and provincial roads.  It identified road sections totalling about
3,000 km already needing strengthening or likely to do so by 1985, with cost
estimates based on the preliminary engineering. From these sections, DOll
has selected about 2,370 km (Table 3.3) considered to be most urgent, on the
basis of field inspections. The DOl will have feasibility studies and
detailed engineering carried out by consultants (para. 3.20). The designs
are being based on projected axle load repetitions for updated traffic
surveys and forecasts, including a realistic assessment oi the actual axle
load spectrum. During negotiations, these points were cornfirmed: Any road
section selected for strengthening is required to have an economic rate of
return, based on detailed engineering, of not less than 15%; and the road
selection is subject to agreement between the Government and the Bank after
review of the feasibility studies and detailed engineering. The choice of
a 15% rather than lower cut-off point for the economic return was made to
guard against possible premature investments, which could result from an
overestimate of project benefits (para. 4.13).
Sector and Project Preparation Studies
3.10      The project includes a study by consultants of Inter-city and Rural
Bus Transport (about 12 marr-months), other sector studies yet unidentified
(about 12 man-months), and further feasibility and engineering studies by



- 27 -
consultants of about 1,000 km of roads for improvement anel strengthening
under future projects (about 230 man-months). The roads will be selected on
the basis of the studies carried out under the Sixth Highuiay Project,
supplemented by field inspections by the DOH to confirm updated priorities.
Technical Assistance
3.11      About 40 man-months of consultants' services are included in the
project for technical assistance to the DOH.  This is to help further improve
the recently introduced "Revolving Fund" management systemi for maintenance
equipment, after a period of operation, and to help further improve the pro-
gramming of road maintenance (para. 2.16). In particular, assistance will
be given in developing a regular system of field inspections and testing of
pavement strengths and roughness to establish total need and priorities of
works for each year's programs of periodic maintenance and, where necessary,
strengthening of pavements. The project also includes a further 12 man-months
of consultants' services to provide technical assistance to the MOC (TPU) in
carrying out in-house transport sector studies.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total financing required for the project is estimated at about
B 3,838 million, or US$166.85 million equivalent, including contingency
allowances amounting to about 22% of total project cost, and the front end
fee on the Bank loan. The cost estimates are given in Table 3.4 and are
summarized below.
3.13      The estimated average costs per km, excluding (including) all
contingency allowances are: (a) for construction and improvement of roads,
US$76,000 (US$93,000); (b) for strengthening or rehabilitation of paved
roads, US$51,000 (US$62,000); (c) for supervision by consultants, US$2,000
(US$2,400); and (d) for detailed engineering by consultants for construction
and improvement of roads for future projects, US$2,200 (US$2,600). The
costs of consultants' services for detailed engineering are normally on a
per road" (or per km) basis. For other services, the costs are on a "per
man-month" basis. The estimated costs per man-month, excluding contingency
allowances, for Thai staff, on supervision and feasibility studies, average
about US$3,000; the estimated man-month costs for such services by foreign
consultants, including salaries, social costs, overseas allowance, overhead
and fees, average about US$9,000 (US$11,000 including overseas travel and
expenses). For specialized technical assistance services, the estimated
man-month costs for foreign consultants, including salaries, social costs,
etc., average about US$10,500 (US$13,500 including overseas travel and
expenses).
3.14      Cost estimates for construction and improvement of the provincial
roads and for strengthening or rehabilitation of existing paved roads, were
prepared by the consultants Louis Berger International, in association with



- 28 -
Summary of Project Costs /a
Baht (million)         US$ (million)/b          Foreign
For-                   For-               exchange
Project coponent                       Local   eign   Total   Local  eign    Total    component
A. Construction and improvement
of provincial roads,
including supervision             996      798  1,794   43.30   34.70   78.00         45
B.. Strengthening or rehabilitation
of paved roads, including
supervision                       680      539  1,219   29.55   23.45   53.00         45
C., Sector and project preparation
studies                            35       11      46    1.50    0.50    2.00        25
D.  Technical assistance                   4       16     20    0.17    0.70    0.87         80
E.  Right of way                          62        -     62    2.70        -    2.70         -
Base cost (mid '83 prices)        1,777   1,364  3,141   77.22   59.35  136.57
F. Contingency allowances:
1.  Physical /c                     177      137    314    7.70    5.96   13.66
2.  Price /d                        206      171    377    8.93    7.44   16.37
Subtotal F                     363      308    691   16.63   13.40   30.03         44
Total Cost of Project        2,160   1,672  3,832   93.85   72.75  166.60          44
Front end fee on Bank loan                 -        6      6        -    0.25    0.25
Total Financing Required    2,160   1,678  3,838   93.85   73.00  166.85            44
la  Financial cost; taxes are included in local costs.
Tb  At current exchange rate of US$1.00 = Baht 23.
7T  10% on all items.
Th At assiuned annual rates of:
1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
Local cost (%)              7        7         7         6         6
Foreign costs (%)           8        7.5       7         6         6



- 29 -
Asian Engineering Consultants Corporation. For the approximately 770 km of
provincial roads eligible for the first year's construction program (lable
3.2) the cost estimates are based on completed detailed engineering (para.
3.07). For the remaining provincial roads in the list from which the project
roads will be selected (Table 3.1), cost estimates are based on feasibility
studies and ongoing detailed engineering, using unit prices for work cbtained
from bids received mid 1982 for similar roads in the previous project, updated
to projected end 1983 costs (para. 3.07). For road strengthening and rehabil-
itation the cost estimates are based on preliminary engineering (para. 3.09)
and experience of the DOH on previous similar work financed by the budget.
3.15       The cost estimates for consultants  services for supervision of
construction and improvement and for strengthening and rehabilitation of paved
roads, for the studies and detailed engineering of further roads, and for
technical assistance, are based on previous contracts with consultants for
similar work, taking into account the mix of foreign and local firms and
numbers of staff, and with costs updated to cover increases estimated to late
1983. The DOH intends to employ consultants for supervision but to provide
virtually all the field supervisory personnel from its own staff.
3.16       Contingency allowances include 10% for physical quantities of work
and for price increases at annual rates for: (a) local costs of 7% in 1983
through 1985; and 6% in 1986 and 1987; and (b) foreign costs of 8% in 1983;
7.5% in 1984; 7% in 1985; and 6% in 1986 and 1987. The cost estimates and
contingency allowances are considered reasonable in view of: detailed engin-
eering already completed for nearly half of all the civil works; the good
record of the DOH and its consultants in preparing cost estimates; and recent
experience with substantial amounts of similar works in Thailand. The
estimates were reviewed and agreed during loan negotiations.
3.17       The foreign exchange component of road works has been estimated by
the consultants at about 45% when carried out by local contractors and about
57% when carried out by foreign contractors.  On the previous Bank finanlced
highway projects, the proportion of contracts won by local contractors
steadily increased to 100% on the last two projects. It is expected that
local contractors will again win all the contracts and the foreign exchange
component for works has been calculated at 45%.  The foreign exchange compo-
nent of the consultants services has been calculated on t:he basis of the
estimated numbers of man-months of foreign and local consultants  staff to be
employed; it is estimated at 25% on supervision,/l 25% for studies and
engineering and 80% for technical assistance.
D. Financing
3.18       The loan of US$100 million, including capitalized front-end fee,
will finance the foreign exchange cost of the project, est:imated at about
US$73 million, together with about US$27 million of local costs of the
/1 Excluding field supervisory staff which will be provided by the DOH.



- 30 -
works and consultants services, altogether about 60% of the total financing
required. The remaining costs of about US$66.85 million will be financed by
the Government through annual budgetary allocations. The Government
provided adequate and timely funds for the seven previous road projects and
made payments promptly.  During loan negotiations the procedure for payments
was reviewed and assurances were given that the Government will make adequate
budgetary provisions for this project.
E. Status of Preparation
Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads
3.19       Feasibility studies by consultants Louis Berger International (US)
in joint venture with Asian Engineering Consultants (Thai), (LBI/AEC),
followed by detailed engineering, partly by Thai consultants and partly by the
DOH, have been completed for 770 km, from which 700 km will be selected to
constitute the first year's program (para. 3.07 and Table 3.2). Preliminary
feasibility studies have been completed by consultants LBI/AEC on the
remaining 2,100 km of possible project roads (Table 3.1), and DOH is now
having the same consultants undertake more complete engineering and economic
studies (para. 3.07). This is expected to be completed November 1983.
About 300 km of the roads will then be selected by the DOE for detailed
engineering by about 6 Thai consultants, which is scheduled to be started
March 1984 and completed about October 1984.
Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
3.20       DOH has completed the selection, from a preliminary list of 3,000 km
prepared by consultants LBI/AEC, of about 2,370 km considered to be most:
urgent (para. 3.09). DOH is now employing the same consultants to undertake
more complete engineering and economic analyses to be compLeted Octobe r
1983.  DOH will then select about 1,000 km and have detailed engineering by
LBI/AEC in association with about six Thai consultants started about November
1983 and completed October 1984.
F.  Implementation and Procurement
3.21       The MOC will be responsible for implementing the project, through
its DOH, as for previous highway projects. It will be assisted by consult-
ants which will supervise road construction/improvement and strengthening/
rehabilitation, undertake sector and project preparation studies, and
provide technical assistance. During negotiations, the Government confinned
that it will: (a) employ consultants whose qualifications and experience are



- 31 -
acceptable to the Bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) before awarding any contracts for road construction and
improvement, send to the Bank reports prepared by consultants on bids
received, with the Government's recommendations, for agreement by the Bank;
and (c) select the roads to be studied and engineered, and the subjects for
the transport studies to be undertaken, under the project, in agreement with
the Bank.
3.22      All civil works will be carried out through contracts awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding by prequalified firms in
accordance with the Bank Group-s "Guidelines for Procurement", and on the
advice of consultants. Smaller road sections will, where practicable, be
grouped geographically and larger contractors given the opportunity to bid
for each group as a whole In order to form larger "packages", in addition to
being able to bid separately for individual road sections. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Government will follow these
procedures for procurement.
3.23       An average of about 2,000 workers are expected to be directlyr
employed on the construction and improvement works over a construction
period of about four years from February 1984. In carrying, out the works,
contractors are free to choose their own methods, equipment and labor,
subject to works complying with performance specifications.
3.24       Contracts for provincial road construction/improvement are expec-
ted to be awarded for the first year's program of roads (comprising about 70%
of the total in the project) about February 1984, and for the remaining roads
by about July 1985. Contracts for about one third of the roads to be streng-
thened will be awarded about February 1985 and for the remainder by December
1985. All construction should be completed about the beginning of 1988. The
studies and engineering of roads for future projects as we:l as special trans-
port studies are expected to be undertaken in 1984-87. Technical assistance
is also scheduled for 1984-87. Allowing for final payments and disbursements,
the closing date for the loan will be June 30, 1988. A project Implementation
Schedule (Table 3.5) was prepared representing best estimates of the time
needed for each project item, taking into account required Government proce-
dures and experience on previous projects.  The Schedule is realistic and
likely to be achieved.  Pluring negotiations, implementation- was further
reviewed and agreement reached with the Government on the Schedule and on
arrangements for reporting progress of the project and on its completion.
G. Environment
3.25       The road works are being designed to avoid causintg any significant
ecological problems such as erosion and flooding, etc. The alignments
mostly follow existing roads as far as economically practicable, minimizing
land acquisition for right-of-way and property disturbance. Roads being



- 32 -
constructed with gravel surfaces will be paved, where they pass throug'h
villages, to eliminate dust. Sections of road in areas of irrigation, near
lakes, or subject to flooding, are designed in collaboration with the Royal
Irrigation Department to provide adequate heights of embankments and sizes
of drainage structures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the Government is making adequate and timely arrangements for acquisition of
land, and payment of compensation, for right-of-way, to minimize disturbance
of people affected, and to enable works to proceed unhindered in accordance
with the contracts.
H. Disbursement
3.26      Disbursements from the loan will be made on the basis of:
(a) 60% of the total cost of construction/improvement and strenglthen-
ing/rehabilitation works; and
(b) 100% of the total cost of consultants' services.
3.27      A Schedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 3.6) has been pre-
pared with DOH on the basis of the Implementation Schedule and was further
reviewed and agreed during negotiations. The projected disbursement profile
is broadly in overall agreement with the Regional and Bank-wide subsector
profiles. However, it lags slightly at first because of the somewhat
lengthy Government procedures for bidding, review and approval of contracts,
both for consultants' services and for civil works.  However, in line with
current performance, disbursements would overtake the standard profiles by
the end of the third year and eliminate their final year's "tail".
3.28      Accounts for the project are kept by the Finance Division of DOH.
Payments are subject to internal audit by the DOH and to cc)ntinuous aucit
by the Office of the Audit Council of Thailand, which maintains a section
permanently stationed in the DOH. The DOH Finance Division is competerLt
and the Office of the Audit Council is independent of ministries. Arrange-
ments for the keeping of accounts for the project, and for their audit and
annual submission to the Bank, were confirmed during negot:iations.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads
Project Preparation
4.01      The identification and evaluation of these roads has evolved in
three stages. Under the first stage, initiated under the Study of National
and Provincial Roads, about 6,000 km of roads were identified, which are



- 33 -
serious socio-economic development constraints or the primary cause for
high-cost transport.  Most roads identified were drawn from the list of
"unimproved" provincial roads located in predominantly rural areas (Table
2.1), where they are the principal or only form of transport. None of then
are adequately engineered nor are they paved. Traffic on many roads is
restricted seasonally, or intermittently all-year round. Under the second
stage, roads designated as security, so-called productivity or other special
purpose roads, were processed separately. The third stage, for the
remainder of the roads identified in the first stage, aimed at a refinEment
of the first, consists of a more detailed analysis of traffic, economic
development potential of the roads' area of influence, and use of improved
construction and vehicle cost estimates in the economic analysis. Third
phase evaluation of a substantial portion of the roads listed in Table 3.1
has been completed, including the roads available for first-year construc-
tion, Table 3.2. Third-phase evaluation of the remaining roads under
Table 3.1 is in progress (para. 3.19). The paras 4.02-4.081 below refer
primarily to those roads where studies have already been completed.
Traffic
4.02      All roads eligible for funding under the project (Table 3.1 )
already carry traffic, ranging in most cases from about 50 to 1,000 aadt.  A
large part of the data on existing traffic was provided under DOH's regular
traffic counting program. For the remaining roads, and where the data
required empirical verification, the consultants conducted their own ir,ter-
cept and fixed point manual counts, which were expanded to yearly avera.ge
figures. Use was also made of a passenger traffic generating model based on
household expenditures. In addition to existing traffic, t:he consultarts
estimated the diverted and generated traffic, where appropriate. Unless a
road was assessed for developmental benefits (and traffic),, generated
traffic was taken to be in the order of 15% of normal trafiic when the
following conditions apply: the proposed improvement is frcm an earth or
laterite to a paved bituminous road, or from an unengineered earth or
laterite to an engineered laterite road. For roads with confirmed develop-
ment benefits, generated traffic was derived from agricultural production
estimates. Traffic was separated into five categories. Traffic growth
rates, in the order of 4-9% p.a. over the life of the investment, were based
on local and regional production, population and personal income trends.
Benefits and Costs
4.03      Resource savings in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOC) and developmental benefits in the case of developmental roads, are the
principal quantified road improvement benefits. Not explicitly quantified
were the effects of road improvements on the provision of education, health
and other Government services nor on the degree of competition in the trad-
ing sector. The project benefits and costs were calculated separately for
each road. Typical vehicle operating costs for earth, laterite and paved
roads are listed in Table 2.22. Depending on road classification, condition
and traffic levels, typical VOC savings are in the order of 30-50%.



- 34 -
4.04      To establish a prima facie case for a developmental road, one of
the following conditions had to apply: the road was not passable all year
round; when it was passable, it severely curtailed transport of farm
products and inputs; it permitted traders to charge exhorbitant prices; the
establishment of regular passenger services was inhibited; and agricultural
extension officers could make only infrequent visits. The data needed for
the calculation of development benefits (increase in producer surplus) were
obtained through ARD, the Ghangwats, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives, and through field observations and interviews. Increasedl
production was related to an increase in the extension of cultivated land or
increase in crop yield, or in some cases, change in crop planted. The
producer surplus was calculated as the farm gate value of the increased
production net of the value of the inputs.
4.05      The capital costs of the roads listed in Table 3.1 are based on
detailed engineering, reconnaissance engineering or desk analysis based on
initial field "inventory" inspection, and the costs of roads in Table 3.2,
on detailed engineering only. The economic costs of construction are about
88% of financial cost after netting out taxes. The expected life span of
the investments is 15 years. Tests have been made to determine the opl:imum
road standard from a range of four alternatives (F3-6).
Returns and Risks
4.06      The roads included in the first year's construction program have
economic returns, based on detailed engineering, of 13-50% (Table 3.2). The
tentative economic returns of the other eligible project roads (Table -.1)
are in the 12-95% range. About 90% of all roads have a return of at least
13%. In the final analyses, only those roads which have an economic return
of at least 12% based onr detailed engineering, as is the case with the roads
in Table 3.2, will be eligible for funding under the project. With the!
given profile of benefits, all investments are expected to be timely.
4.07      The principal project risks are that actual construction costs may
exceed the estimates and benefits may not materialize fully. The risk of a
cost increase, however, is expected to be largely contained through the
strong competition among contractors. Overestimates of project benefits
could result from one principal factor, namely an overestimate of existing
(and future) traffic. Adequate traffic da a have been a major concern of
the project preparation so far completed, because roads with significant
seasonal (agricultural) and predominantly local traffic are inherently
difficult to assess. To indicate the project risks, the following sensitivity
tests were conducted: the capital costs were increased by 10%; the benefits
were decreased by 15%; and both tests were combined. Neither of these tests
exposed undue project risks even for the roads with the lower returns.
Thus, the investments under consideration have a satisfactory risk exposure.



- 35 -
Beneficiaries
4.08       The population served by the project roads, roughly in a band 3 km
wide on either side of a road, are the project-s main investment benefici-
aries. They are expected to receive most of the development benefits, where
applicable, and to share to a large extent in the vehicle operating cost
savings. The local incidence of VOC savings results from a combination of
factors: that traffic on the project roads is largely local; that local
residents commonly engage in local commercial transport; and that busing and
trucking is very competitive on fairly good (improved) roads.  A typical km
of road listed in Table 3.1 has a population coverage of 400 - 600 people,
and typical VOC savings are B 0.25 million per annum per kn of road.
Accordingly, the project, with a total provincial road length of about 1,000
km, will reach up to one-half million people whose annual average per capita
benefits generated by the project will be about B 400-B 500.
B. Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
Project Preparation
4.09       The strengthening/rehabilitation component of the project has
evolved from the Study of National and Provincial Roads. Under this study,
simplified economic return calculations were performed based on preliminary
assessments of the degree of the current and future pavement deterioration and
the extent of the required remedial works. Subsequently, a program of field
inspections by the Department of Highway's Districts was instituted, which
was completed early this year and led to the identificatiorn of about 2,370 km
of high priority roads for inclusion in the preliminary project list (Table
3.3). Detailed economic (and engineering) analyses are being undertaken to
establish the refined economic returns (para. 3.20).
Traffic
4.10       The roads belonging to this project component form part of the
i:nter-regional and inter-provincial network of mostly national roads. Traffic
volumes are among the highest in the country with up to abcut 9,000 aadt.,
Total traffic volumes are well established with time series of periodic
counts extending over several years.  Estimates of vehicle mix are based on
special counts. Future traffic growth will be assumed to follow overalL
trends for national and provincial roads, unless special conditions app:Ly.
Only normal traffic will be considered, because of the practical difficulties
of estimating traffic diversion (under conditions of severe road deteriora-
t:ion) and limited scope for traffic generation.



- 36 -
Benefits and Costs
4.11      Savings in vehicle operating costs for (normal) traffic are the
principal benefits, and savings in road maintenance are (in some cases)
additional benefits from the proposed investments. The VOC spread between
well maintained and badly deteriorated pavements is about 30-50%, as the
deteriorated surface is equivalent to that of a poorly maintained gravel road.
Savings in vehicle operating costs will only be assessed for those roads whose
pavement deterioration can already be verified by visual inspection. In case
of other roads, it will be assumed that strengthening/rehabilitation is
premature and can be postponed by some years, subject to adequate maintenance.
A small percentage of the roads are also candidates for pavement widening,
drainage and some other localized works. Benefits and costs for these invest-
ments will be analysed separately from the (main) strengthening road works.
4.12      The capital costs shown in Table 3.3 are tentative and based on cost
averages for similar works established under the Study of National and
Provincial Roads. The final economic test prior to project road selection,
will be made after completing detailed engineering. The economic costs of
road works are expected to be about 88% of financial costs net of taxes. The
expected life span of the investments, that is the length of pavement streng-
thening/rehabilitation cycle, is about 7 years. For each road, benefits and
cost will be analysed separately. There will also be analyses under which
alternative scopes of pavement works will be assessed.
Returns and Risks
4.13      Preliminary economic returns calculated for some eligible project
roads are in the order of over 20%. The high returns are expected to be
confirmed in the detailed economic analysis for most roads. The expected
returns are directly proportional to the high traffic volumes and the critical
condition of many roads. There are, however, some uncertainties about the
rate of future pavement deterioration and failure, and accordingly about
the project benefits. To guard, despite careful analysis, against premature
investment, the minimum return of a road (based on detailed engineering) to be
funded under the project, has tlherefore been set at 15%, and tests will be
performed to ensure adequate first-year returns.
4.14      With the selection of the 15% cut-off point for the economic return,
project risks are greatly reduced.  To further reduce the risk of low-yield
investment, the consultants preparing this project component will conduct: a
brief project risk analysis, including identification of risks factors and
probability of their occurance.  This will be used judiciously in the final
round of selecting project roads.
:3eneficiaries
4.15      The execution of the pavement strengthening/rehabilitation program
will benefit the private sector economy and public finance. In the first
instance, road users, operators for their own account and tlie road transport



- 37 -
industry, will benefit from lower transport costs. In case of the road
transport industry, some efficiency gains will be passed on because of
competitive pressures. Upstream, the agricultural sector in particular will
benefit from lowered transport costs, as their products destined for export
and local consumption make up a high percentage of goods on the roads.
Downstream, the end-user of transport, including the local consumer, will be a
beneficiary of the road improvement. Public finance will gain from the
reduction of future road maintenance and pavement strengthening/rehabilitation
cost. Adequately timed works are measures to prevent disproportionally higher
expenditures in the future.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMM*ENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank reached agree-
ment on the following principal points:
(a) review of road vehicle weights and dimensions (para. 2.13);
(b)  collection and analysis of road traffic data (para. 2.22);
(c)  road user taxation and fuel pricing (para. 2.34);
(d)  FY83-88 road maintenance budgets (para. 2.42);
(e)  final selection of project roads (paras. 3.07 and 3.09);
(f)  selection of subjects for transport sector studies and of roads
to be studied and engineered (paras. 3.10 and 3.21);
(g)  project cost estimates (para. 3.16);
(h)  Government budgets for project roads (para. 3.18);
(i)  procedures for project implementation and procurement
(paras. 3.21 and 3.22);
(j)  implementation schedule and reporting on project progress
(para. 3.24);
(k)  acquisition of right-of-way (para. 3.25); and
(1) arrangements for auditing and annual submission to the Bank of
accounts for the project (para. 3.28).
5.02      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million (repre-
senting 60% of the total cost), including the capitalized front-end fee, for a
period of 20 years, including a grace period of six years.



- 38 -
ANNEX
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector:
1.  Study of Energy Policies for the Transport Sector, by BCEOM and
Transport Planning Unit in Ministry of Communications, 1982
2.  Road User Taxation Study, by BCEOM and Transport Planning Unit in
Ministry of Communications, 1982
3.  Study of Highway Maintenance and Equipment Needs, by Kampmann,
Kierulff and Saxild A/S, 1976 (4 volumes)
B. Reports and Studies on the Project:
1.  Studies of National and Provincial Road Network in Thailand, by Louis
Berger Int. Inc. in joint venture with Asian Engineering Consultants
Corp., 1980 (3 volumes).
2.  Studies of IBRD Rural (Provincial) Roads One Program, by Louis Berger
Int. Inc. in joint venture with Asian Engineering Consultants Corp.,
1980 and 1981 (several volumes and amendments)
May 1983



- 39 -
Table 1.1
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Passenger and Freight Transport by Modes /a
Freight                      Passengers
Mode                          Million ton-km       7      Million pass-km /b       7
Roads                              19,500         77.4           78,000           92.6
Rail                                2,650         10.5            6,039             7.2
Inland waterways                    1,570          6.2                -            -
Domestic coastal shipping           1,490          5.9                -            -
Domestic aviation                       1          -                205             0.2
Total                        25,211        100.0           84,244           100.0
/a Estimate for 1978.
/b Excluding urban traffic.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
'May 1983



- 40 -
Table 1.2
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Oil Consumption by Sector Ia
Average % /b                     Million toe
Sector                                     1971-79                            1.979
T'ransportation /c                           42.4                              4.6
P'ower generation Id                          18.4                             2.4
Manufacturing                                 18.7                             2.0
Agriculture /e                                11.2                             1.2
Construction                                   1.3                             0.1
Services and others                           8.0                              0.9
Total                                  100.0                             11.2
I'a All sectors.
/b Percent of toe.
/c Including telecommunications; covers domestic transport and international
aviation and shipping.
/d Including water supply.
/e Including fisheries.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consu:tants
BCEOM.
may 1983



- 41 -
Table 1.3
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Oil Consumption of Transport Sector /aZ
All products /b              Gasoline                  Diesel oil
Million      Increase     Million       Increase     Million      Increase
Year         toe          in %          toe         in %          toe          in %
1970        n.a.           -           n.a.           -           n.a.
1971         2.58          -           0.96           -           1.11           -
1972         3.05          18          0.96           -           1.29          16
1973         3.48          14          1.15          20           1.46          13
1974         3.12        -10           1.26          10           1.14         -22
1975         3.37           8          1.38          10           1.17           3
1976         3.82         13           1.54          12           1.50          28
1977         4.04           6          1.71          11           1.67          11
1978        4.27           7           1.80            5          1.75           5
1979         4.59           7           1.81          -           1.97          13
1980         4.56         -1           1.73          -4           1.82          -8
n.a. = not available.
/a Including international aviation and shipping (0.71 million toe).
/b Including LPG, jet fuel, kerosene and fuel oil.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 42 -
Table 1.4
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Consumption of Motor Fuels /a
Gasoline                                  Diesel oil
Year    Million liters         Increase in %        Million liters        Increase in %
1970           945                   -                  2,182
1971         1,269                  34                  2,584                    18
1972         1,267                   -                  2,714                     5
1973         1,500                  18                  3,083                    14
1974         1,606                   7                  2,955                    -4
1975         1,763                  10                  2,867                    -3
1976         1,963                  11                  3,357                    17
1977         2,183                  11                  3,727                    11
1978         2,307                   6                  3,926                     5
1979         2,324                   -                  4,411                    12
1980         2,289                  -2                  4,374                    -1
1981         2,101                  -8                  3,927                   -10
/a Consumption of all economic sectors. In the 1970s, the transport sector
(road, rail, water) consumed about 90-93% of gasoline and 40-50% of gasoil.
Source: National Energy Administration, Department of Higl-hways, Transport Plan-
ning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants BCEOM.
May 1983



_ 43 -
Table 1.5
THA ILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Fuel Consumption by Modes /a
Freight             Passengers              Total
Mode                    '000 toe        %    '000 toe         %    '000 toe        %
Roads                   1,546-1,667   93.5  1,849-1,728   96.9        3,395       95.3
Rail                        45          2.6       40          2.2         85       2.4
Inland waterways            35          2.1        -          -          35        1.0
Domestic coastal
shipping                  31          1.8       -          -           31        0.9
Domestic aviation            -          -         17          0.9         17       0.4
Total             1,657-1,778  100.0  1,906-1,785  100.0         3,563      100.0
/a Estimate for 1978. Excluding international aviation and shipping (712,000
toe).
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 44 -
Table 1.6
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Sector Fuel Consumption by Vehicle Types and Road Network /a
Fuel consumption
Road network                          Million vehicle-km          000 toe          %
National and Provincial Roads
Cars and taxis
Regular                                 4,304.5                  344          10.1
Light commercial                        1,320.0                  105           3.1
Buses
Light buses                             3,281.1                  306           9.0
Heavy buses                             1,481.3                  356          10.5
Subtotal                              10,386.9                1,111          32.7
Trucks
Light trucks                            3,643.3                  340          10.0
Heavy trucks
6-wheel                            2,453.1                  547          16.1
>10-wheel                             1,698.3                  482          14.2
Subtotal                               7,794.7                1,369          40.3
Motorcycles and tricycles                 3,296.5                   89           2.6
Total                                 21,478.1                2,569          75.6
Rural Roads                                 2,346.9                  185            5.5
Bangkok                                                              641          18.9
GRAND TOTAL                                                   3,395         100.0
/a Estimate for 1978.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communicat:ions) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 45 -
Table 1.7
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Sector Fuel Consumption by Regions /a
...
Region                                           Estimate 1               Estimate 2
Bangkok                                              18.9                     34.1
Nanthaburi and Samut Prakan                           8.1.                      6.3
Other areas within 150 km radius
of Bangkok /b                                      29.0                     23.1
Subtotal /c                                     56.0                     63.5
Rest of Thailand                                     44.0                      36.5
Total                                          100.0                    100.0
/a Estimate for 1978.
/b Area within 150 km from Bangkok city. Excluding rural roads.
/c Including rural roads.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



Table 1.8
- 46 -
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Breakdown of Retail Prices of Petroleum Products in Thailand /a
(Baht per liter)
Ex-                                      Business,
refin-          Market-                   excise &
ery   Import    ing    Sub-   Import  municipal  Oil   Retail
Product            price  price   margin   total   duty          tax      fund  price
Premium gaso-
line /b
Locally refined  5.21              0.51    5.72                4.59    2.29  12.60
Imported                  5.33    0.51    5.84    2.91         0.95    2.90  12.60
Regular gaso-
line /b
Locally refined  4.86              0.47    5.33                3.89    1.88  11.10
Imported                  4.86    0.47    5.33    2.91         0.84    2.02  11.10
High-speed
diesel /b
Locally refined  5.36              0.40    5.76                0.99    0.24   6.99
Imported                  5.36    0.40    5.76    0.53         0.45    0. 25   6.99
/a As of April 1983. Breakdown of locally refined products estimated from
February 1983 data.
/b The ratio of locally refined products to total consumption in the transport
sector is: regular and premium gasoline, 76%; diesel, 65%.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM, National Energy Authority and nepartment of Highways.
May 1983



- 47 -
Table 1.9
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Energy Economics of Diverting Road Traffic to Rail
1. Unit Fuel Savings
Diversion of road traffic to rail is estimated to yield these fuel savings:
Weighted
Passenger traffic (pass-km)
Passenger cars, 12% of diverted traffic   30 goe/pass-km   3.6 goe/pass-km
Buses            88%                         1.8                1.6
100%                                            5.2 goe/pass-km
Freight traffic (ton-km)
Trucks                                                            20 goe/ton-km
2. Fuel Savings from Hypothetical Doubling of Rail Traffic
Million pass-km              MiLlion ton-km
1982 rail traffic                                9,283                       2,547
Hypothetical rail traffic          2 x 9,283 = 18,566           2 x 2,547 = 5,094
Hypothetical annual
fuel savings         Passenger traffic         Freight traffic_        Total
toe            5.2 x 9,283 = 48,000  20 x 2,547 = 51,000) 99,000
US$ (@ $250/toe)                  (99,000 x $250 =)                  25 million
3. Investments Justified by Hypothetical Fuel Savings
20-year life of investments; 12% internal rate of return; 99,000 toe savings
per annum.
Investment
Constant savings ($25 million) and fuel price ($250/toe)            $187 million
Savings and fuel price increasing at 3% p.a.                        $232 million
4. Investments Required for Hypothetical Doubling of Rail Traffic
Total investments for passenger and freight traffic, approximating replace-
ment value (1982 prices) of current assets (rolling stock and some track
investments)                                                   >$,(000 million
Of which:  justified by fuel savings                          $]8l-232 million
not justified by fuel savings                    >$81:-768 million
Accordingly, only about 20% of rail investments aimed at accomnodating traf-
fic diverted to save energy are justified on the basis of fuel savings.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of' Communications) ancd consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 48 -
Table 1.10
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Government Five-Year Plan Investments in Transport - Summary /a
(Million baht)
Third plan        Fourth plan        Fifth plan
Mode                                  1972-76 lb         1977-81 /b        1982-86 /c
Roads
National                              8,200               6,900             7,682
Provincial                            6,800               5,530            12,052
Rural                                  1,600              3,050            15,300
Subtotal                          16,600             15,480             35,034
Railway                                  2,470              1,899             8,800
Inland waterways and ports                 920                665            19,431
Civil aviation                             890              1,425            12,105
Total                             20,880              19,469            75,370
Transport as percentage of
development expenditures                  20                  8                12
Ia  In current prices.
/b Actual expenditures.
/c  Current plan figures, excluding Bangkok urban transport, for which B 30,000
are allocated.
Source:  National Economic and Social DeveLopment Board and Department of High-
ways.
May 1983



- 49 -                            Table 1.11
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Government Fifth Five-Year Plan Investments
in Transport - Details by Modes /a
Million baht
Railway (State Railway of Thailand)
Locomotives and rolling stock                                              4,875
Track modernization and rehabilitation                                     1,958
Signaling and telecommunications                                           1,406
Workshop improvements                                                        296
New line construction                                                         52
Other investments                                                            213
Total                                                                  8,800
Inland Waterways and Ports
Inland waterways improvements                                              1,163
Coastal ports improvements                                                   357
Thai Maritime Navigation Company                                           1,600
Deep-sea ports investments
Phuket and Songkhla                                                      2,215
Kloeing Toei and Sattahip                                                1,034
Laem Chabang                                                             2,065
Mab Ta Pud                                                               8,497
Subtotal                                                              13,811
Merchant marine promotion                                                  2,500
Total                                                                 19,431
Civil Aviation
Aircraft procurement                                                       3,568
Expansion of Don Muang airport (Bangkok)                                   2,828
Construction of new international airport at Nong Ngu (Bangkok)               60
Improvement of other airports                                              2,870C
Aircraft maintenance center                                                1,991
Other investments                                                            788
Total                                                                 12,105
Bangkok Urban Transport /b
Rapid transit                                                             20,000
Other                                                                     10,000
Total                                                                 30,000
/a  Exclusive road investments and inclusive Bangkok urban transport.
lb Excluding railway investments covered under Railway.
Source:  National Economic and Social Development Board and M:inistry of
Communications.
May 1983



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1963-82
(km)
Provincial roads                          National highways
National highways            Improved roads       Unimproved                    and provincial roads
Year     Paved   Gravel  Total/a    Paved  Gravel  Total/a   roads/b    Total        Paved   Gravel  Unimproved  Total
1963      4,157  4,917    9,074        203  1,998    2,200      5,800/c    8,000      4,360  6,915      5,800/c   17,074
1964      4,702  4,702    9,404        257  1,957    2,214       n.a.        n.a.     4,959  6,659       n.a.        n.a.
1965      5,046  4,436    9,482        405  2,389    2,794       n.a.        n.a.     5,451  6,825       n.a.        n.a.
1966      5,008  4,490    9,498        427  2,569    2,996       n.a.        n.a.     5,435  7,059       n.a.        n.a.
1967      5,507  4,011    9,518        581  3,311    3,892       n.a.        n.a.     6,088  7,322       n.a.        n.a.
1968      6,613  3,131    9,744      1,131  4,078    5,209       n.a.        n.a.     7,744  7,209       n.a.        n.a.
1969      7,822  2,146    9,968      1,281  4,448    5,729       n.a.        n.a.     9,103  6,594       n.a.        n.a.
1970      8,620  1,781   10,401      1,479  4,413    5,892       n.a.        n.a.    10,099  6,194       n.a.        n.a.     O
1971      9,681  1,296   10,977      1,781  4,347    6,128       n.a.        n.a.    11,462  5,643       n.a.        n.a.
1972     10,493  1,014   11,507      2,288  3,891    6,179       nea.        n.a.    12,781  4,905       n.a.        n.a.
1973     11,065  1,008   12,073      2,560  4,039    6,599       n.a.        n.a.    13,625  5,047       n.a.        n.a.
1974     11,750    747   12,497      3,025  3,986    7,011       n.a.        n.a.    14,775  4,733       n.a.        n.a.
1975     11,840    818   12,658      3,396  4,043    7,439    15,447       22,886    15,236  4,861    15,447       35,544
1976     11,968    752   12,720      4,276  4,601    8,877    14,857       23,734    16,244  5,353    14,857       36,454
1977     12,218    722   12,940      4,920  5,022    9,942    14,200       24,142    17,138  5,744    14,200       37,082
1978     12,762    548   13,310      6,210  5,546   11,756    15,220       26,976    18,972  6,094    15,220       40,286
1979     13,613    207   13,820      8,129  5,549   13,678    14,880       28,558    21,742  5,756    14,880       42,378
1980     13,734    160   14,874      8,669  5,587   14,256    14,709       28,965    22,403  5,747    15,689       43,839
1981     14,054    121   14,175    10,661  5,180   15,841    12,819        28,660    24,715  5,301    12,819       42,835
1982     14,249    100   i4,349    11,517  5,136   16,653    11,708        28,361    95,766  5j236    117O8       42-710
/a  Roads which receive the normal allocation of maintenance funds.
7b  Roads which receive only "minimum maintenance" (that is, only about 25% of the normal allocation of maintenance
funds and are often not passable in rainy weather) or are    er z       u.r
/c Lengths not available (n.a.) before 1975; length of unimproved (provincial) roads in 1963 believed to have been
about 5,800 km.
Source:  Department of Highways.
May 1983



- 51 -
Table 2.2
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Department of Highways Roads by Regions in 1982
(km)
National Highways           Provincial Roads              National & Provincial Roads
Unim-                               Unim-
Paved  Gravel Total   Paved  Gravel proved.  Total   Paved  Gra,rel  proved    Total
North       3,008    19   3,027   3,312    798   4,775   8,885    6,320    817   4,775   11,912
Northeast  4,535    50   4,585   2,926  1,983   2,777   7,686    7,461  2,033   2,777   12,271
Central    3,875    23   3,898   2,818  1,632   2,200   6,648    6,693  1,655   2,200   10,548
South       2,831      8   2,839   2,461    723   1,956   5,140    5,292    ;31   1,956    7,979
Total   14,249   100  14,349  11,517  5,136  11,708  28,361   25,766  5,236  11,708   42,710
Source:  Department of Highways.
May 1983



- 52 -
Table 2.3
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Regional Indices of Department of Highways Roads /a
Region                       All
North    Northeast    Central    South    regions
1. Distribution of
Road Length (%)
Paved                  14          1.6          14        12         56
Gravel                  2           5            3         2         12
Unimproved             12           8            7         5         32
Total               28          29          24         19       100
2. Square km per 1 km
of roads
Paved                25.9        22.8        16.4       13.2       19.9
Unpaved              27.3        33.6        25.2       25.3       28.3
Total             13.3       13.6          9.9        8. 7     11.7
3. Population per 1 km
of roads
Paved               1,536      2,196        2,365      1,120      1,858
Unpaved             1,618       3,238       3,632      2,142      2,632
Total              788      1,309        1,432        736     1,089
/a 1982 statistics.
Source: Department of Hlighways.
May 1983



- 53 -
Table 2.4
THAILANI)
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration /a
Other
Year   Cars    Buses    Trucks    vehicles    Subtotal    Motorcycles    Total
Number of Units ('000)
1970    222        19       136         23            400           338          738
1971    235        18       147         19                          364          789
1972    240        20       159         38                          376          833
1973    251        22       179         27                          408          887
1974    301        23       232         31                          459        1,046
1975    290        23       238         31            582           479        1,061
1976    298        20       285         30                          512        1,145
1977    331        27       345         38                          648        1,390
1978    362        28       368         33            791           727        1,518
1979    389        30       399         47                          756        1,621
1980    412        30       468         47                          907        1,864
1981    451        64       472         50          1,037         1,141        2,178
Annual Growth Rates (%)
1970-81   6.7      11.6      12.0        7.3            8.9          11.7         10.3
1975-81   7.6      18.6      12.1        8.3           10.1          15.6         12.7
/a Classification by Police Department (License Division).
Source: Police Department.
May 1983



- 54 --                               Tzable 2.5
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Classification of Registered Motor Vehicles (1978) /a
Vehicle type                                                  Number        %      %
Cars and taxis, 4 wheels                                      318,030      21.0   40.4
Buses
Light buses, 4 wheels                                        86,469       5.7   11.0
Heavy buses, 6 wheels                                        19,305       1.3    2.5
Subtotal buses                                          105,774       7.0   13.5
Trucks
Light trucks, 4 wheels                                      231,800      15.3   29.4
Heavy trucks, 6 wheels                                       68,339       4.5    8.7
Heavy trucks, 10 wheels                                      30,112       2.0    3.8
Subtotal trucks                                         330,251      21.8   41.9
Truck tractors                                                  2,944  }
Farm and construction tractors                                 20,927  }   2.2    4.2
Taxis, 3 wheels                                                 9,352  }
Subtotal all vehicles, 3 wheels or more                 787,278      52.0  100.0
Motorcycles                                                   727,000/b   48.0
Overall Total                                         1,514,000    100.0
/a  Reclassification of Policy Department (License Division) data.  Statistics
exclude trailers and vehicles not fa:lling under specified vehicle catego-
ries.
/b  Actual number of motorcycles estimated to exceed registered number shown by
about 30%.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 55 -
Table 2.6
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles by Area of Registration (1978)
(%)
Vehicle type                                                  Bangkok      Non-Bangkok
Cars and taxis, 4 wheels                                        78.2       21.8   19.9
Buses
Light buses, 4 wheels                                         75.7       24.3    6.0
Heavy buses, 6 wheels                                         47.2       52.8    2.9
Subtotal buses                                            70.5       29.5    8.9
Trucks
Light trucks, 4 wheels                                        27.0       73.0   48.5
Heavy trucks, 6 wheels                                        38.7       6L.3   12.0
Heavy trucks, 10 wheels                                       12.5      87.5    7.6
Subtotal trucks                                           28.1       71.9   68.1
Truck tractors                                                  38.5       6:L.5 }
Farm and construction tractors                                  69.1       30.9 }  3.1
Taxis, 3 wheels                                                 71.0       29.0 }
Subtotal all vehicles, 3 wheels or more                   54.0       46.0  100.0
Motorcycles                                                     22.5       77.5
Overall Total                                             38.9       61.1
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



Table 2.7
- 56 -
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle-Kilometers on National, Provincial and Rural Roads /a
National and provincial
roads               Rural roads           Total
Vehicle type            Mln v-km       %      %    Min v-km    %    Mln v-km         %
Cars and taxis
Regular                4,304.5    20.0   23.7
Light commercial       1,320.0      6.2    7.3
Buses
Light buses            3,281.1    15.3   18.1
Heavy buses            1,481.3      6.9    8.1
Subtotal          10,386.9    48.4   57.2
Trucks
Light trucks           3,643.3    17.0   20.0
Heavy trucks
6-wheel              2,453.1    11.4   13.5
> 10-wheel           1,698.3      7.9    9.3
Subtotal            7,794.7    36.3   42.8
Total              18,181.6    84.7  100.0  1,467.0    62.5  19,648.6    82.0
(%)                 (92.5)                     (6.5)             (100.0)
Motorcycles and
tricycles              3,296.5    15.3              879.9    37.5   4,176.4    18.0
(%)                    (78.9)                     (21.1)            (100.0)
GRAND TOTAL        21,478.1   10(0).0         2,346.9   100.0  23,825.0   100.0
(%)                 (90.1)                     (9.9)             j'l00.0)
/a Estimate for 1978, excluding city roads.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 57 -
Table 2.8
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle-Kilometers on National and Provincial Roads by Regions /a
Region                                                Vehicle-km                   %
Bangkok                                                  1,983                     11
Central region                                           7,265                     40
Northern region                                          3,458                     19
Northeastern region                                      3,350                     18
Southern region                                          2,126                     12
Total                                              18,182                   100
Larger Bangkok metropolitan area lb                     >9,000                    >50
/a Estimate for 1978.
lb Area within 150 km from Bangkok city.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications), Department of
Highways and consultants BCEOM.
May 1983



- 58 -
Table 2.9
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
National and Provincial Roads Network Utilization /a
Annual          Cumulative          Road         Cumulative
Average daily           vehicle-km        % of v-km          length        % of length
traffic (aadt)          (mln v-km)           (Z)              (km)            (%)
10,000 or more             2,449             13.5               391            1.0
8,000 - 9,999             1,300             20.6               400            2.0
6,000 - 7,999             1,233             27.4               494            3.2
4,000 - 5,999             1,724             36.8               991            5.7
2,000 - 3,999             3,488             56.0             3,524           14.4
1,000 - 1,999             3,877             77 .3            7,674           33.4
500 -   599            2,209              89.4            8,518            54.5
300 -   499             1,102             95.5            7,717            73.7
150 -   299               614             98.9            7,494           92.3
Less than 150                186            100.0             3,083          100.0
Total               18,182                             40,286
/a Estimate for 1978.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 59 -
Table 2.110
THAILAND
SECONI) PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle Mix on National and Provincial Roads /a
_ __
Vehicle type                               1972                1974               1978
Cars and taxis, including
light commercial
passenger vehicles                       39.4                39.0               34.4
Light buses (4 wheels)                     16.8                17.1               18.0
Heavy buses (6 wheels)                      9.3                 9.4                7.4
Subtotal                              65.5               65.5                59.8
Light trucks (4 wheels)                    12.6                14.4               19.0
Heavy trucks (>6 wheels)                   21.9                20.1               21.2
Subtotal                              34.5               34..5               40.2
Total                                10(.0              100.0               100.0
Light vehicles /b                          68.8                70.5               71.4
Heavy vehicles 7c                          3;.2                29.5               28.6
Total                                100.0              100.0               100.0
/a The 1978 percentage figures differ slijghtly from those in Table 2.6 due
to different statistical methods.
/b  Cars and taxis, including light commercial vehicles, light buses and light
trucks.
/c Heavy buses and heavy trucks.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministryt of Communications), Department of
Highways and consultants BCEOM.
May 1983



- 60 -
Table 2.11
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Traffic Growth Rates on National and Provincial Roads /a
(% p.a.)
Actual                    Forecast /b
Vehicle type                       1972-78       1974-78       1978-87       1987-2002
Cars and taxis, including
light commercial
passenger vehicles                4.2            4.4           4.2            4.3
Light buses (4 wheels)               8.6           9.4           4.8            4.8
Heavy buses (6 wheels)               2.5           1.6           6.4            5.6
Subtotal                       5.2           5.4           4.7             4.7
Light trucks (4 wheels)             15.2          15.8           9.9            7.3
Heavy trucks (>6 wheels)             6.5           9.5           6.5            5.6
Subtotal                      10.1          12.3           8.2             6.6
Total                          7.0           7.9            6.3            5.7
/a Traffic measured in vehicle-kilometers.
/b Forecast made in 1982.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications), Department of
Highways and consultants BCEOM.
May 1983



- 61 -
Table 2.12
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Percentage of Overloaded Trucks /a
(%0)
6-wheel truck           10-wheel truck
National roads
Gross vehicle weight                              15                       20
Rear-axle load                                     8/b                     30 /c
Provincial roads
Gross vehicle weight                              18                       21
Rear-axle load                                    11 /b                    34 /c
/a Based on Department of Highways survey in 1978/79.
/b Legal loads on overloaded trucks were exceeded by about 12%, on average.
/c Legal loads on overloaded trucks. were exceeded by about 40%, on average.
Source: Department of Highways.
May 1983



-62 -                            Table 2.13
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Bus Routes Operated by Transport Co., Ltd. /a
No. of         No. of          No. of
Bus routes                                    routes         buses          trips/day
Bus Routes Between Bangkok and
Provinces
Bangkok to (from)
Northern region                             28             467              837
Northeastern region                         19             477              399
Eastcoast                                   29             355              938
Southern region                             40             645            1,167
Total                                     116           1,944            3,3i41
Bus Routes Between Provinces
Northern region                               37             414              703
Northeastern region                           28             364              602
Eastcoast                                      9             112              292
Southern region                               29             435              784
Total                                     103           1,325            2,381
Bus Routes Within Same Province /b
Northern region                               11              61              292
Northeastern region                            4              49              212
Eastcoast                                      7              93              434
Southern region                                4              64              260
Total                                      26             267            1,198
/a Including services by private companies operating under franchise of Trans-
port Co. Statistics as of 1981.
/b Excluding services by private franchised companies.
Source: Transport Co., Ltd.
May 1983



- 63 -
Table 2.14
THAILAND
SECOND PRO'VINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Subsector Investment Program (1982-86) /a
Targets
No. of   Lengths                         Investments (B milLion)
Projects                                         routes    (kmn)      8 mln       1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Construction and Rehabilitation
National Highways
New construction project                        20       337.3   2,199.3    854.9    610.4    359.0    215.0    160.0
Four-traffic lanes construction project         22       245.5   2,760.?      534.5    347.0    6S9.0    582.7    627.0
Rehabilitation project                          81    2,576.9   5,089.5    911.3  1,138.4  1,331.4    981.9    726.5
Asphalt construction project                     2        40.4       50.1      50.1       -         -        -         -
Subtotal                                      125    3,200.1  10,099.1  2,350.8  2,095.8  2,359.4  1,779.6  1,513.5
(2,323.0) (7,682.0)
Provincial Dighways
New construction project                        '7        65.4      685.6    192.3    183.6        37.0     92.0    130.7
Four-traffic lanes construction project          5        40.9      325.3      33.9       -      114.9    146.5       20.0
Rehabilitation project                          13       137.9      974.0      76.9      47.1      11.0l    54.3      54.7
Asphalt construction project                   335    8,061.4  15,547.4  3,866.4  2,913.6  2,645.9  2,947.0  3,124.5
Soil aggregate construction                     27       561.1      562.5    171.7    189.9        14.7     51.6      64.6
Subtotal                                      384    8,866.7  17,394.8  4,341.2  3,334.2  3,013.5  3,291.4  3,394.5
(6, 620.0)(12,052.0)
Subtotal national and provincial roads    509   12,066.8  27,493.9  6,692.0  5,430.0  5,3912.9  5,071.0  4,908.0
(8,943.0)(12,734.0)
Rural Roads
Operation by ARD
Rutral road construction                     462    9,350.0   5,231.5    877.9  1,158.6  1,1 8.6  L,158.6    877.9
Rural road improvement                         -    4,145.0   3,888.0    586.3    665.9    787.9    853.6    994.3
R.C. bridge construction                       -        34.0   1,530.0    180.0    337.5    317.5    337.1    337.5
Subtotal                                      462   13,495.0  10,649.5  1,644.2  2,162.0  2,284.0  2,349.7  2,209.7
Operation by "nWD
Rural road construction                      551    7,018.0   2,832.4    464.1    520.5    5f3.9    615.1    6f8.9
Improvement to asphalt                        29      499.2      499.2    103.3    106.1    1(9.9         R7.4      92.5
Subtotal                                      580    7,580.2   3,331.6    567.4    626.6    673.R    702.5    761.4
Operation by RID
Feeder road construction                      20      292.2       273.9     67.0      73.1      '7.6      64.7      11.5
O&M road construction                        163    1,313.5       793.1    187.8    201.1    11n.3    136.'1    118.4
Asphalt project                               27       537.3      109.4      72.7     78.6      7 R,R     q4        2 ?7.7
Sutltotal                                     210    2,143.0   1,337.2    327.5    39,.8    283.7    255^s    157.6
Suibtotal rural roads                       1,252   23,21,3.2  15,358.3  2,539.1  3,141.4  3,24L.5  3,3/7.8  3,1?8.7
Total Construction and Rehahilitation   1,761   35,285.0  42,852.2  9,231.1  8,571.4  8,63,.4  8,378.9  8,036.7
(32,161.2)(35,092.3)
/a  Plan figuires as of early 1983.  The aggregate plan targets have been reduced since and are ;hown in pacentheses.
Source:  National Economic and Social revelopmenc Board and Department of Hi0hways.
May 1983



- 64 -
Table 2.15
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Department of Highways - Expenditures and Sources of Finance, 1967-83
(Million baht)
Construction and
improvement
Adminis-    Mainte-                     Foreign    Total
tration /b   nance /c                     loans    Govern-
Fiscal    Government  Government  Government  (counter-   ment    Foreign
year /a      budget       budget        budget       part)    budget    loans   Total
1967            404           234        1,575         498      2,711       408   3,119
1968            465           296        1,551         390      2,702       476   3,178
1969            506           328        1,626         403      2,863       220   3,083
1970            529           365        1,752         370      3,016       322   3,338
1971            626           350        2,038         289      3,303       192   3,495
1972            609           304        1,578         219      2,710       146   2,856
1973            628           310        1,766         416      3,120       203   3,323
1974            801           341        1,866          66      3,074       112   3,186
1975            708           454        2,140          45      3,347        83   3,430
1976            957           573        3,042         100      4,672       145   4,817
1977          1,033           615        2,766         427      4,841       207   5,048
1978            901           575        3,492         566      5,534       211   5,745
1979          1,218           867        3,298         684      6,067       458   6,078
1980          1,363           811        4,311         725      7,210       750   7,960
1981          1,492        1,045         5,020         628      8,185       700   8,885
1982          1,286        1,499         3,910         900      7,595    1,282   8,877
1983 /d       1,695        1,873         4,266       1,367      9,201       721   9,922
Ia October 1 - September 30.
/b Includes the costs of: (a) mechanical equipment repair and its partial
replacement, which are not apportioned to maintenance and construction
works; and (b) special highway police patrols.
/c Excludes fuel, oil and spare parts (about 20% of given budget figures),
which are part of the cost of administration.
/d Budget allocation.
Source:  Department of Highways.
May 1983



- 65 -
Table 2.16
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Estimates of Tax Receipts from Road Sector (1975-79)
(Million baht)
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979     % 1979
Total Tax Receipts
Motor fuels                 2,186    2,476    3,165    4,558        6,642        63
Tires                          62        79       108       105       106         1
Vehicle registration          680       715       871       923     1,020        10
Subtotal                 2,928    3,270    4,144    5,586        7,768        74
Vehicles, parts and
accessories               2,616    2,578    3,474    3,783        2,795        26
Total /a                 5,544    5,848    7,618    9,369    10,563          100
Overtaxation Component
Motor fuels                1',199    1,271    1,758    2,985        4,613        64
Tires                          15        25        37        29        26         -
Vehicle registration          680       715       871       923     1,020        14
Subtotal                 1,894    2,011    2,666    3,937        5,659        78
Vehicles, parts and
accessories               L,867    1,654    2,110    2,478        1,584        22
Total                    J,761    3,665    4,776    6,415        7,243       100
Overtaxation as % of
total tax receipts             68        63        63       68         69
/a  Preliminary estimates for 1980 are B 15,000 million.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications), Department of
Highways and consultants BCEOM.
May 1983



-66-                                Table 2.17
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Overtaxation of Traffic by Road Networks
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980 /a
--------------- Million baht -----------------
National and provincial roads
Motor fuel taxes                    643      674      910   1,510   2,399   3,362
Other taxes                       1,708   1,596   2,012   2,287   1,753   3,205/b
Subtotal                       2,351   2,270   2,922   3,797   4,152   6,567
Rural and urban roads
Motor fuel taxes                     556     597      848   1,475   2,214   2,988
Other taxes                         854      798   1,006   1,144        877    n.a.
Subtotal                       1,410   1,395   1,854   2,619   3,091    n.a.
Total                          3,761   3,665   4,776   6,416   7,243    n.a.
National and provincial roads           63       62      61       59       57    n.a.
Rural and urban roads                   37       38      39       41       43    n.a.
Total                            100      100      100      100      100    n.a.
/a Preliminary estimates.
/b High estimate.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 67 -
Table 2.18
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Overtaxation of Traffic on National and Provincial
Roads - by Vehicle Categories /a
Vehicles                                Million baht                              %
Motorcycle                                    398                                 6.0
Passenger car                               2,277                                34.7
Bus, 4-wheel                                  776                                11.8
6-wheel                                 621                                  9.5
Truck, 4-wheel                              1,144                                17.4
6-wheel                               726                                 11.1
10-wheel                               625                                  9.5
Total                                 6,567                                100.0
/a Preliminary estimates for 1980.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 68 -
Table 2.19
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Profile of Department of Highways Expenditures /a
Million baht              %
Expenditures Dependent on Existing Traffic
Highway patrol                                                    126                  2
Pavement maintenance                                           1,140                  17
Pavement strengthening                                            897                 13
Subtotal                                                    2$163                  32
Expenditures Independent of Existing Traffic
General administration                                           490                   7
Road maintenaLnce (excluding pavement)                            475                  7
Construction                                                   3,700                  54
Subtotal                                                    4,665                 68
Total                                                       6,828                 100
/a  Average annual expenditure in 1980 prices applicable to first half of 1980s.
The estimates are based on average 1982-86 expenditures for pavement
strengthening and road construction, and on averages for other cost in the
1970s.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.,
May 1983



- 69 -
Table 2.20
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures - National and Provincial Roads /a
Vehicle          Total tax-   Overtaxa-         Marginal    Total cost        Ratios
type             ation /b   tion (OT) /c  cost (MC) /d    (TC) /e   OT/MC  OT/TC
------           (Baht/vehicle-km) -- ------------
Motorcycle           0.21          0.12           <0.01           0.28      63.0   0.4
Passenger car        1.23          0.58           <0.01           0.29    157.6   2.0
Bus, 4-wheel         0.57          0.35           <0.01           0.29      95.0   1.2
6-wheel        1.26          0.55             0.38          0.66       1.4   0.8
Truck, 4-wheel       0.70          0.41           <0.01           0.29    110.4   1.4
6-wheel      0.76          0.39             0.77          1.05       0.5   0.4
10-wheel      0.98          0.48             0.73          1.01       0.7   0.5
/a  Estimates for first hali of 1980s in 1980 prices.
/b  Includes all taxes:  registration fees, customs duties, business and local
taxes, motor fuel taxes
/c  Excludes "normal" taxes applicable to the import, production and sale of
comparable taxable goods, etc.
/d  Marginal cost defined as Department of Highway expenditures variable with
traffic.
/e  Corresponds to total Department of Highways expenditures.
Source: Transport Planning Unit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 70 -
Table 2.21
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Proposed Increases in Road Vehicle Taxation /a
6-wheel truck           10-wheel truck
Additional tax, B/vehicle-km                       0.38/b                  0.25/c
B/annum /d                      15,000                  10,000
Vehicle operating costs (VOC)
without additional tax,
B/vehicle-km /e                                  7.35                    9.92
Additional tax in % of VOC                          5.2                      2.5
/a Based on marginal cost pricing policy. Proposals for 1980 price levels.
/b Marginal cost (B 0.77/v-'km) minus overtaxation (B 0.39/v-km).
/c  Marginal cost (B 0.73/v-inm) minus overtaxation (B C.48/v-km).
/d  Assuming annual mileage of 40,000 km.
/e Financial cost for paved level tangent roads, at free-flow conditions.
Source: Transport Planning lJnit (Ministry of Communications) and consultants
BCEOM.
May 1983



- 71 -
Table 2.22
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROAD-S PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs /a
(Baht/km)
Road surface
Paved                Laterite                  Earth
F         E             F         E            F           E
Motorcycle             0.84      0.51          0.89      0.55         1.12        0.71
Passenger car          3.95      2.05          4.43      2.32         5.84        3.02
Bus, 4-wheel          3.53       2.20         3.82       2.42         5.01        3.19
6-wheel          8.46       6.38        11.11       8.34        14.82       11.18
Truck, 4-wheel         2.77      1.72          3.11      1.97         4.33        2.76
6-wheel        7.83       5.82         8.83       6.60       11.51        8.66
10-wheel       10.85       8.06        12.58       9.40        17.06      12.85
F = Financial cost, E = Economic cost.
/a Costs at early 1982 prices for roads in good condition. The costs apply to
level tangent roads at free-flow conditions. Costs in mountainous terrain
are 5-10% higher for paved roads, and 10-20% higher for laterite and earth
roads. Costs for rolling and hilly terrain fall between flat level tangent
and mountain roads.
Source: Department of Highways
May 1983



- 72 -
Table 2.23
ThAI1LAND
SECOND PROVINC1A  ROADS  IOJECf
Design Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads
1.  Bridge width (between curbs):  9 m on national highwys classes P(D), P(1), S(D) and ;,(1)
8 m on rnational highways classes P(2) and P(3) and on 'rovincial roads
cla,sses P(l) and P(2)
7 m on provincial roads classes F(3) to F(6)
2.  Vertical clearance:               4.50 a
3.  Design axle load (pavement):   20,000 lb (24,000 lb in Bangkok area)
4.  Design bridge loading:            as 20
5.  Geometric design standards /a:                                   Terrain
Flat and moder-      Rolling and
Highways and Roads               Unit       ately rolling           hilly         Mountainouts
(a)  National (Primary)
Design speed              km/h           80-100             60-80            50-60 /1b
Maximum gradient          X              4                  6                8 /b
Right-of-way              a              60-80              60-80            60-80
(b)  National (Secondary and
Provincial F(D), F(1),
F(2) and F(3)
Design speed             Ikm/h           70-90              55-70            40-55 /b
Maximtum gradient         X              6                  8                10 /b
Right-of-way              a              40-0                40-60           40-60
(c) Provincial F(4), F(5)
and F(6)
Design speed              km/h           60-80              45-60            30-45 Lb
Maximum gradient          S              8                   10              12 /b
Right-of-way              m              20-40              20-40            20-40
6. Roadway features:
(a)  National (Primary)          Class   P(D)          PC1)    P(2)      P(3)
Equivalent daily traf-  Number  above          4,000-  2,000-   below
fic (aadt) /a                   i3,000       8,000   4,000    2,000
Surface type 7W           m        thigh        high    inter-   inter-
mediate  mediate
Width of carriageway    m         divided        7.00    6.50      6.00
2 x 7.00/d
Width of shoulder /b    m         2.50           2.50    2.25      2.00
Width of roadbed /b       m       va ries       12.00   11.00    10.00
(b)  National (Secondary)        Class   SO()          S(I)    S(2)      S(3)      S(4)      S(5)
Equivalent daily traf-  Number above           4,000-  2,000-   1,000-        300-   below
fic (aadt) /a                  18,000        8,000   4,000    2,000    1,000    300
Surface type 7W           m       high          high    inter-   inter-   low         gravel
mediate  mediate
Widt.h of carriageway    m         divided       7.00    6.50      6.00    5.50   } (including
2 x 7.00/                                        } s houl de rs)
Width of shoulder /b    m         2.50           2.50    2.25      2 .00    1.75   }
Width of roadbed /        a       va ries      12.00   11.00    10.00    9.00         9.00
(c)  Provincial                  Class   F(D)          F(1)    P(2)      F(3)      F(4) /e  F(5) and P(6)
Equivalent daily traf-  Number  above          4,000-  2,000-   1,000-        300-   above 300, below 300
fic (aadt) /a                   8,000        8,000   4,000    2,000    1,000
Surface type 7W           m        high         high    inter-   inter-   low         gravel      gravel
mediate  mediate
Width of carriageway    m          divided       7.00    6.50      6.00    5.50       (including shoulders)
2 c 7.00/d
Width of shoulder /b    m         2.50           2.50    2.25      2.00    1.75
Width of roadbed /F       m       varies        12.00   11.00    10.00    9.00        9.00        6.00
/a  Geometric standards normally based on 15-year traffic projections.
/b  Design speed and widths may be reduced and gradients increased in exceptional circumstances.
/c  Pavement design normally based on 7-year traffic projections of equivalent 20,000 lb aKle loads.
7d  Initially constructed with two lanes unless immediate construction of four lanes is economically justified.
7e  Class F(4) is for roads with projected aadt above 300 after 7 years.
Source: Department of Highways.
May 1983



- 73 -
Table 2.24
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads
Estimated Costs, 1983-88 /a
(Million baht)
1983/b  1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Recurrent Costs
(including equipment
operation, repair,
and replacements,
predominantly used on
routine maintenance)
1. Routine maintenance
(predominantly by
force account)                     846   1,120   1,150   1,175   1,210   1,245
2. Periodic maintenance
(predominantly by
contract)                          967   1,057   1,075   1,100   1,155   1,215
3. Emergency maintenance                60      70       75      80      85       90
Total                       1,873   2,247   2,300   2,355   2,450   2,550
/a  Estimated budgetary requirements at constant FY1983 prices, excluding
costs of administration and of special highway police patrols.
/b Actual budgetary provision.
Source: Department of Highways
May 1983



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAI ROADS PROJECT
List of Eli'ible Project Roads - Construction/lmprovement of Provincial Roads
NO  ICDENTIFIER       ORIGIN                      DESTINATION            LENGTH   COE1ii  IMPROVEMENT/2  AADT,83/3  AADT,86/3  IRR(%)  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
1  514 1145 0100 J.R.1,NIsHOM TAK FA)        THA TA KO                    20.7      53.6   F4 DBST            623         723      95.4        20.7           53.6
2  523 1036 0100 RT.I(BAN FON)               MAE THA                      19.0      33.0   F4 DBST *          311         468      52.0        39.7           86.6
3  421 3245 0100 THA LAT                     A.SANAM CHAIKHET             22.9      48.6   F3   AC           1450        1677      50.4        62.6          135.2
4  535 1126 0200 B.PA DAET                   B.RONG MAET                  25.4      51.1   F4 DBST            491         570      49.8        88.0          186.3
5  436 3220 0400 B.THAP PHUNG                BAN RAI                       14.2     1O.4   F6  LAT            344         438      48.9       102.2          196.7
6  423 3277 0400 A.KHLUNS                    A.MAKHAM                     26.9      49.4   F3   AC            756        1114      46.8       129.1          246.1
7  515    0 CC 0  RT.11t(CHON DAEN)          WANG PONG                    19.0      33.0   F4 DBST *          460         650      43.0       148.1          279.1
8  412 3306 0:00 B.NONG PRU                  B.SRA KRACHOM                72.0      81.3   F4 DBST            737         878      39.1       220.1          360.4
9  622 2138 0100 FAK LOEI                    NA DUANG                     34.0      54.0   F4 DBST *         228         367       37.0       254.1          414.4
10  425 3159 0100 J.R.3                       B.NON SI                     27.0      47.2   F4 DBST           575         684       35.6       281.1          461.6
11  335 3087 0200 ChOM PUNG                   B.CHAT PA WAI                38.8      51.2   F3   AC            554         629      35.2       319.9          512.8
12  517    0 C2D0 RT.II5(WANG PHIKUN)         LAN KRABU                    14.0      22.0   F4 DBST *         491         699       34.0       333.9          534.8
13  412 3 63 000 LUt KtAE                    NONG KAEM                    22.0      43.6   F3   AC           550         673       33.8       355.9          578.4
.;  4.4 3._G  O    E.SRjA RACHun              A.DAN CHANG                  32.5    .3./   F4 DBST             594         804       32.5       388.4          617.1
15  433 3329 0i:0  Rl . i.SAM YAK) -  HUA WA! - RT.3004(HUA THANON)        47.0      69.0   F4 DBST *         281         355       32.0       435.4          686.1
16  4- 3 21  o010O J.R.I                      NONGPON  STATION             24.6      50.0   F4 DBST           267          320      31.9       460.0          736.1
17  431 3333  1G00 KHOK TUM                   PA SAK RIVER                 34.0      67.6   F4 DBST           213          252      31.0       494.0          803.7
18  314 4122 0100 J.R.4(6.PA SON NUA)         B.LO CHANGKRA                32.0      54.0   f4 DBST            121         136      30.9       526.0          857.7
19  514    0 0G00 KFANU WORALAKSA BURI        RT. 117                      46.0    110.0   F4 DSST *          484         581       29.0       572.0          967.7
20  535 1193 0100 B.MAE TAM                   B.MAE CHAI                   35.2      60.6   F4 DBST           812         1132      29.0       607.2         102a.3       4
21  634 2050 0230 A.TRAKARN PHUT PHON         A.KHEMRAT                    54.2    100.4   F4 DBST             356         410      28.7       661.4         1128.7
22  E i4     0 0010 BO THAM                  KHAO CHON KAN                33.4      68.6   F3/F4 AC/DBST    377           437      26.5       694.8         1197.3       1
23  414 3232 o01u J.R.321                     WAT LAD PLAKHAO               8.8      16.4   F4 DBST            329         392      28.4       703.6         1213.7
24  426 3376 0100 BAN CHANG                   CHAK MAK                      9.1      12.4   F4 DBST            365         525      28.0       712.7         1226.1
25  631 2095 O100 A.KANTHARAROM               A.KANTHARALAK                32.4      42.9   F4 DBST            240         328      27.1       745.1         1269.0
26  522 1178 0100 J.R.407(B.MAE KHON)         B.NA WAI                     24.7      44.5   F4 DUST            418         576      26.6       769.8         1313.5
27  433 3211 0100 HANKHA                      HU CHANG                     49.1      71.5   F3/F4 AC/DBST    311           386      26.4       818.9         1385.0
28  431 2282 0103  EArl MA NOW HWAN           SUAN MA DUA                  18.3      12.5   F6  LAT           256         312       26.3       837.2         1397.5
29  426 3376 0!00 CHAK MIAK                   ROAD SOI 13 C.RAYONG         21.0      21.0   F6  LAT             63          77      26.0       858.2         1418.5
30  614 2246 o0o4 J.R.2                       R.202                        33.6      25.4   F6  LAT             90         106      26.0       891.8         1443.9
31  425 ,`089 02O0 R.2282(B.WANG NAM SUT)    R.205(A.CHAI BADAN)           34.2      54.2   F4 DEST           505         601       24.7       926.0         1498.1
32  432 2243 0200 A.PAK CHONG                 HUA LAM                      45.0      77.0   F4 DBST           292          347      24.7       971.0         1575.1
33  414 3230 0300 A.DAN CHANG                 B.THAP PHUNG                 18.0      21.2   F4 DBEST           416        572       24.6       989.0         1596.3
34  432 2273 0100 HUA MAK                     SUAN MA DUA                  30.1      46.0   F4 DBST           374          444      24.0      1019.1         1642.3
35  415 3233 0400 A.NAKHON CHAISI             R.3036                       26.8      79.6   F4 D8ST           467         525       23.9      1045.9         1721.9
36  433 2196 0100 RT.t(CHAl NAT) - RT.11    - BAN MI                       43.0      83.0   F4 DBST *         387         540       23.0      1088.9         1804.9
37  519    0 ODOO B.WANG CHIK                 RT.117(B.PA DAENG)           13.0      42.0   F4 DBST *         320         3a6       23.0      1101.9         1846.9    o A
38  432 3224 0100 A.KAENG KHOI                R.2089                       30.7      51.4   F4 DEST            132         t 7      2-.       i132.o         18s8.3   oQ  d
39  613 2179 OCO CHATTURAT                   PAMNFTNIeAPO!                2-.O      25.7   F4 DBST           242         310       21.7      1153.6         1924.0    m r
4S  ,4;  31 LII uU 1ALhA  MAO HONG           BANG MAE MAI                 IS.0      68.6   F3   AC           522         646       21.3      1171.6         1992.6   F-
41  312 4067 000 B.KO'A BARU                 THA RUA                      28.3      45.0   F4 DEST           289         402       21.2      1199.9         2037.6
42  332 4096 0100 J.R.41                      PAK NAM TA KO                10.4      16.7   F4 DBST           158         177       21.1      1210.3         2056.3       H
43  612 2247 0100 PAK CHONG                   LAM SOM PHUNG                22.0      31.0   F4 DEST *         238         339       21.0      1232.3         2C87.3
44  531 1217 0100 J.R.12t6 (B.WANG PUNG)    R.1218(B.BUN ROENG)           40.3      38.1   FS  LAT             67         83       21.0      1272.6         2125.4
45  541  t22t        ..,. B.WANG  THAM        B.THi' MAKIAM                 8.0      18.0   F4 DBST *         187         227       21.0      1280.6         2143.4
_____ -  --- --     - -- - - - -- - - -     -   __ -  ______ ____. .__ -__ __ -- - - - - -   ------     -  -- -- --   -- -- -- -- -- --   __ -_______ _ ______ _ __ _ ____________________



THAILANO
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Eligible Project Roads - ConstruCLion/Improvement of Provincial Roads
NO  IDENTIFIER        ORIGIN                      DESTINATION            LENIGTH   COST/I  IMPROVEMENT/2  AADT,83/3  AADT,86/3  IRRMX)  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
46  433 3331 0100 J.R.1                       NONG PHIKUN                   9.9      14.9   F4 DBST            275         327      20.2      1290.5         2158.3
47  323 4036 0100 J.R.4(B.NUA KHLONG)         B.LEAM KRUAT                 23.0      33.8   F4 DBST            145         162      20.2      1313.5         2192.1
48  511 1220 0100 A.WAT SOT                   B.NAKHAM                     1A.0      22.0   F5  LAT *          103         128      20.0      1329.5         2214.1
49  533 1098 0100 B.KIU PHRAO                 B.KAEN TAI                   55.0    130.0   F4 DBST *           195         227      20.0      1384.5         2344.1
50  517    0 0000 RT.115(8.THUNG MAHA CHAI) B.NONG TAKHHAN                 54.0    128.0   F4 OBST *           280         339      20.0      1438.5         2472.t
51  521 1099 0100 J.R.108                     A.OM KOI                     50.0      80.0   F4 LBST            154         179      19.5      1488.5         2552.1
52  613 2037 0200 A.KASET SOMPUN              A.NONG BUA LAENG             35.0      74.9   F6  LAT            180         200       19.5     1523.5         2627.0
53  335 3236 0000 RT.3236(PHO HUK)            RT.3D97                       9.0      25.0   F4 DBST *          140         200      19.0      1532.5         2652.0
54  535 1202 uiOO PHAYAO                      PA DAET                      45.0      84.0   F4 DEST *          269         403      19.0      1577.5         2736.0
55  435 2243 0100 J.R.205                     HUA LAM                      27.7      48.7   F4 oosr            190         226      18.9      1605.2         2784.7
56  335 3087 0300 B.CHAT PA WAI               MUANG PHA POK KHANG KHAO   28.9        35.4   F3/Fs AC/LAT       454         508      18.8      1634.1         2820.1
57  313 4111 OlrO J,R.4053(B.KHUAN NIANG)   B.PAK CHA                      12.2      23.6   F4 DBS'            277         310      18.5      1646.3         2843.7
5s  323 4043 ol00 J.R.4(B.KHLONG PHON)        B.THAMA PHRAO                14.3      19.6   f4 DeST             33          37      18.4      1660.6         2863.3
59  323 4034 0r00 PAKt4AM NRAOI               FHAO THONG                   26.0      43.0   F4 DBST *          317         483      18.0      1636.6         2906.3
60  533 1190 O0CO J.R.lo:- o..CHAMSON         R.1126(6.NUANG NGA)          23.2      36.1   Fs  LAT            109         121       17.3     1709.8         2942.4
61  537 t179 0100 J.P.1143(6.FAI KWANG)       R.1072(g.DON NGOEN)          30.7      59.7   F4 DBST            346         402      17.1      1740.5         3002.1
62  425 315S 0100 LAEM NGSiP - BANG KRADAN   - THA CHOT                    35.0      60.0   F4 DBST *          303         439       17.0     1775.5         3062.1
63  537 1174 01U B. rHU14G NGIU               B.CHOMPHU                    48.0    110.0   F4 DEST *           230         274       17.0     1823.5         3172.1
64  638 2168 0100 KANTHARAROM                 RASI SALAI                   63.0    120.9   F4 DUST             235         303       16.9     1886.5         3293.0
65  331 4130 0100 A.KAPOE                     S.NA                         15.6      34.4   F4 DBST             90         101       16.7     1902.1         3327.4
66  436 1197 0100 NONG CHiKRI                 THALING SUNG                 20.5      47.7   F4 DOST            230         274       16.6     1922.6         3375.1
67  622 2249 0100 B.RAI THAM                  B.SONG PLUAI                 31.3      52.4   F4 DBST            273         316       16.2     1953.9         3427.5        1
68  432 2039 0104 WANG MUANG                  R.22B2(B.WANG NAM SUT)       10.4      25.4   F4 DBST            236         305       16.2     1964.3         3452.9
69  614 2159 0100 J.R.2057(CHONNA8OT)         R.2065C(.KUT RU)             36.5      53.4   F4 DEST            342         397       16.1     2000.8         3506.3        4
70  435 3326 0200 RT.205(WANG PHLCENG) - SA BOT - RT.2219(YANG THON)   32.0          53.0   F4 DEST *          274         391       16.0     2032.8         3559.3       -n
71  531 1124 0000 A.WANG CHIN                 THOEN                        54.0    140.0   F4 DBST *           206         252       16.0     2086.8         3699.3        1
72  533 1207 0100 B.RONG SUA TEN              B.HUAI KHOM                  13.0      22.0   F4 DBST *          210         253       16.0     2099.8         3721.3
73  435 2219 0100 SRI THiP                    NONG MUNG                    55.3    150.0   F3   AC             375         447      t5.9      2155.1         3871.3
74  424 3268 0100 THA DAENG                   WAN5 MUANS                   14.1      22.2   F4/Fs DBST/LAT   778           929       15.6     2169.2         3893.5
75  312 4071 0100 B.KOTA BARV                 R. 0D92 B.PHITAN             24. 1     54.3   F4 DLOT            426         596       15.5     2193.3         3947.8
76  617 2118 0100 R.24 J.(A.NANG RONG)        B.PA KAM                     24.0      37.6   F4 DBST            265         294       15.4     2217.3         3985.4
77  625 2132 0iO RT.22(tFA  r AE)            SI SONGKHRAM                 40.0      95.0   F4 DOST            391         454       15.0     2257.3         4080.4
78  421 3123 0100 A.BANG KHLA                 BANG NAM PRIEO               24.5      23.0   F6  LAT             13          t5       15.0     2251.8         4103.4
79  532 1196 0100 BAN WANG PONG               ROUTE 102                    26.0      38.9   F4 DESI            200         249       14.1     2307.8         4142.3
80  513 1113 0100 RT.12(MUANG KAO)            SI SAr CHANARAI              52.0    152.0   F4 DBST *           179         218       14.0     2359.8         4294.3
81  617 2162 0300 A.HUAI THALAENG              C.BURlRAM                   45.3      84.3   F4 DEST            250         2q3       14.0     2405.1         4378.6
82  332 3120 0100 J.R.4                       THA SAMEr                    14.9      21.9   F4 DBST            168         200       13.9     2420.0         4400.5
83  629 2133 0100 PHU WIANG                   SRI BUN RUANG                35.9      86.6   F4 DOST            352         456       13.s     2455.9          4487.1
84  629 2187 0100 A.NONG RUA                  A.PHU KHIEO(B.NONG WANG)   37.0       66.1   F4 DLST            123         136       13.3     2492.9         4553.2
85  533 1152 0100 J.R.1020(B.HUA DOI)         B.SANSALIK                   5a.0      95.6   F4 DBST            290         399       13.1     2549.9         4648.8
86  432 2059 0102 MOAK LEK                    SALAENG PHUN- WANG MUANG   26.2        52.0   F4 DEST            240         354       13.                                 Q 2F   '2.8    u
87  533 1130 0100 J.R.lo(S.PA SANG)          F*UMA  WIl0 .NF.u                       Z.z   F6  LAT            559         690       13.0     2593.1          4713.0
o0      Z ,,i8 U 0100 J.R.2091                J.R.222(BAN NONG WAENG)    42.1        35.2   F6  LAT            338         401       13.0     2635.2          4748.2    Ia
89  421 3304 0109 RT.35(DON SI NON)           LAEM PiADU                    12.0     30.0   F4 DEST            226         317       13.0     2647.2          4778.2       .
90  435 3355 O01O PHA NIAT                    MANA PH(j                    23.5      13.2   F6  LAT             15          15       12.7     2670.7          4791.4       I
91  325 4112 0300 A.THA CHANG                 A.THA CH4NA                  39.6      68.2   F4 DEST            353         395       12.6     2710.3          4859.6
92  535 1126 0300 B.RONG MAET                 R.1021(PRHUAI NGOU)           8n Q      2A-   F4 r,,ST           176         204       12.3     2718.3          4872.2
93  325 4112 0200 A.THA CHANA                 DI5T.CHUMYPHON               15.5      25.4   F4 DOST            229         256       12.3     2733.8          4897.6
94  622 20i8 OiO Rf.2u01(HAI CHOM5I)          CHIANG KLOM-PAK CHOM        62.0    127.0   F4 LEST             278         394       12.0     2795.8          5024.6
95  412 3359 0100 B.KAO                       LUM SUM                       18.7      9.3   F5  LAT            122         149       12.0     2814.5          5033.9
--- -- --  -- -- -- -- --  -- -- -- -- --  -- -- -- -- --  -- -- -- _ - --  ----------------------------  -  ______ _ -- -- - -- - -- -  _ _________ ___ _____________ -___ ------------------_______ -



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Eligible Project Roads - Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads
NO  IDENTIFIER        ORIGIN                      DESTINATION             LENGTH   COST/I  IMPROVEMENT/2  AADT,83/3  AADT,86/3  IRR(X)  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
96  521 1099 0300 KM.71+000                    Kn.102+000                    31.0     22.7   F6  LAT             44          56       12.0      2845.5         5056.6
97  314 4121 0100 RT.4(MAE KHARI)              LO CHANG KRA                  16.0     31.0   F4 DBST            214         292       12.0      2861.5         5087.6
98  332 4097 0000 RT.41                        BANG NAM CHUT                 12.0     24.0   F4 DBST            148         292       12.0      2873.5         5111.6
/I Financial cost in millions of baht at end-1983 Prices.
/2 Design standard and surface type.
F2-F6 - Provincial roads classes
AC     - Asphaltic concrete
DBST   - Double bituminous surface treatment
LAT    - Laterite
/3 Averase annual daily vehicle traffic. Assumins opening of improved road by early 1986.
The 1986 AADT includes normal,diverted and generated traffic.
Source: Programmins section       Department of Hishways
Lcuis Berger International Inc.
Asian Engineerins Consultants Corp.Ltd.
May 1983
m t-
I-e



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Roads Included in First Year's Constructiont Program
NO  ItDENTIFIE9        ORIGIN                      DESTINATION             LENGTH   COST/I  IMPROVEMENT/2  AADTv83/3  AADTi86/3  IRR(%)  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
A  421 3245 0100 THA LAT                       A.SANAM CHAIKHET             22.9      45.6      F3   AC         1450        1677       50.4        22.9            48.6
2  436 3230 0400 B.THAP PHUNG                  BAN RAI                       14.2     10.4      F6  LAT          344         438       48.9        37.1            59.0
3  423 3277 0100 A.KHLUNG                      A.MAKHAM                     26.9      49.4      F3   AC          756        1114       46.8        64.0           108.4
4  335 3287 0200 CHOM BUNG                     B.CHAT PA WAI                30.8      51.2      F3/F4 AC/DBST  554           629       39.6        94.8           159.6
5  412 3363 0130 LUK KAE                       NONG KAEM                    22.0      43.6      F3/F4 AC/DBST  550           673       33.8       116.8           203.2
6  414 3230 0200 8.SRA KRACHOM                 A.DAN CHANG                   32.5     38.7      F4 DBST          594         804       32.5       149.3           241.9
7  535 1193 0100 B.MAE TAM                     B.MAE CHAI                   35.2      60.6      F4 DEBST         812        1132       29.0       184.5           302.5
8  426 3376 0100 BAN CHANG                     CHAK MAK                       9.1     12.4      F4 DBST          365         525       28.0       193.6           314.9
9  631 2005 0100 A.KANTHARAROM                 A.KANTHARALAK                32.4      42.9      F4 DBST          240         328       27.1       226.0           357.8
10  522 1178 0100 J.R.107(B.MAE KHON)           B.NA WAI                      24.7     44.5      F4 DBST          418         576       26.6       250.7           402.3
tS  4Z3  3211 0100 HAN:HA                       hU CHA4tG                     49.1      71.5     F3/F4 AC/DBST  311           386       26.4       299.8           473.8
12  431 2282  1100 e-AN MA NOW HWAN             SUAN MA DUA                   18.3     12.5      F6  LAT          256         312       26.3       318.1           486.3
13  414 3230 030D A.DAN CHANS                   B.THAP PHUNG                  18.0     21.2      F4 DBST          416         572       24.6       336.1           507.5          1
14  415 3233 0100 A.NAI(HON CHAISI              R.3036                       26.8      79.6      F3/F4 AC/DBST  467           525       23.9       362.9           587.1          4
15  414 3351 0100 TALAT KAO HONG               EBNG MAE MAI                   18.0     68.6      F3   AC          522         646       21.3       380.9           655.7
16  312 40S7 0100 8.KOTA BARU                   THA RUA                      28.3      48.8      F4 tBST          289         402       21.2       409.2           704.5
17  613 2179 0100 CHATTURAT                     BAMNETNARONG                  21.0     25.7      F4 DBST          242         310       20.8       430.2           730.2
t8  613 2037 0200 A.K4SE7 SOMSUN                A.NONG 8UA DAENG             35.0      74.9      F4 DBST          180         200       19.5       465.2           805.1
19  533 119t 0100 j.R.1020 B.CNAMBON            R.11268B.MUANG NGA)          23.2      36.1      F4 DBST          109         121       17.3       488.4           841.2
20  638 2168 0100 KANTHARAROM                   RASI SALAI                    63.0    120.9      F4 DBST          235         30u       16.9       551.4           962.1
21  312 40171 0100 B.KOTA BARU                  R.4092 B.PHITAN               24.1      54.3     F4 DBST          426         596       15.5        575.5         1016.4
22  617 2118 0100 R.24 J.(A.NAN5 RONS)          B.PA KAM                      24.0      37.6     F4 D8ST          265         294       15.4       599.5          1054.0
23  532 1196 0100 BAN WANG VONG                 ROUTE 102                     26.0     38.9      F4 DBST          200         249       14.1        625.5         1092.9
24  629 2133 0100 PHU WIANG                     SRI BUN RUANG                 35.9      86.6     F4 DEBT          352         456       13.5        661.4         1179.5
25  629 2i87 0100 A.NONG RUA                    A.PHU (IHEO(B.NONG WANG)   37.0         66.1     F4 [07ST         123         136       13.3        698.4         1245.6
26  533 1152 0100 J.R.1020(B.HUA DOI)           B.SANSALIK                    50.0      95.6     F4 DEST          290         399       13.1        748.4         1341.2
27  435 3355 0100 PhA NIAT                      MAHA PHO                      23.5      13.2     F6  LAT           15          15       12.7        771.9         1354.4
/1 Financial cost in millions of baht at end-1983 Prices.
/2 Aesksr, standard and surface type.
F2-F6  - Provinrial roads classes
AC     - Asphaltic concrete
DEBST   - Double bituminous surface treatment
LAf    - Laterite
/3 Averaqe annual daily vehicle traffic. Assuming openine of improved road by early 1986.
Tte ''98D AADT inciudes normalidiverted and senerated traffic.
Source: Prograrnrgjnm section      Departrnent of Highways
Louis Ber3er International Inc.
Asian Enmineerins Consultants Corp.Ltd.
May 1983



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Eligible Project Roads - Strengtheiing/Rehabjlitation of Paved Roads
NO    IDENTIFIER        ORIGIN                      DE5TINATION                   LENGTH    COST/I  AADT.83/2  AADT,86/2  RATING SCORE  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
1  431 3022 0100   PHRA PHUTHABAT                 THARUA                           6.0     it.1       1535        1648           2.80             6.0           11.1
2  532 1045 0200   YAK A.THAPLA                   SIRIKIT DAM          ****       25.0     46.4       1217        1503           3.20            31.0           57.5
3  522  107 0100   C.CHIANG MAI POST OFFICE    MAE TAENG BRG.(S)                  10.0     18.6       5275        6517           3.22            41.0            76.1
4  521  108 0100   C.CHIANG MAI POST OFFICE    MAE KHAN BRG.(N)                   10.0     18.6       5437        6717           3.23            51.0            94.6
5  415 3242 0100   SAMUT SAKHON                   BANG KHUNTHIEN                  12.0     22.3       7054        7574           3.30            63.0           116.9
6  521  108 0100   C.CHIANG MAI POST OFFICE    MAE KHAN BRG.(N)                   10.0      18.6      5437        6717           3.32            73.0           135.4
7  331    4 2500   KHLONG KAM PHUAN               A.hHURA BURI                    14.0     26.0       2626        3199           3.37            87.0          161.4
8  313   42 0400   J.BAN NAKET                    ;.SAPHAN SAMMAKKHI              11.0     20.4       2386        2907           3.55            98.0          181.8
9  535  101 1300   J.TO A.SA                      MUNI.OF NAM                     10.0     18.6       1410        1742           3.56           108.0          200.3
10  415   35 0100   THONEURI                       W.THACHIN 3RG.                  30.2     56.0       8052        8646           3.61           138.2          256.4
11  421  3i5 0200   J. TO C.CHACHOENGSAO           J. TO A.PHANAT NIKHOM           11.5     21.3       1493        1603           3.62           149.7          277.7
t2  33i    4 2500   KHLONG KAM PHUAN               A.KHURA BURI                     5.0      9.3       2626        3199           3.64           154.7          287.0
13  413  305 0102   BANGKOK DIST.                  A.ONG KHARAK                    30.0     55.7       61'8        6601           3.67           184.7          342.6
14  432 304i 0100   C.SARABURI                     A.SAOHAI                         8.5     15.8        985        1058           3.69           193.2          358.4
15  421  315 0200   J.TO C.CHACHOENGSAO            J.TO A.PHANAT NIKHOM            12.8     23.7       14q3        1603           3.71           2CS.0          382.1
Z   16  522  107 0100   C.CHIANG MAI POST OFFICE    MAE TAENG BRG.(S)                  10.0     18.6       5275        6517           3.73           216.0          400.7
17  521  iO8 0100   C.CHIANG MAI POST OFFICE    MAE KHAN BRG.(N)                   10.0     18.6       5437        6717           3.74           226.0          419.2
E-  18  332  327 0100   J.PRATHOMPHON                 J.DIST.CHUMPHON                   6.1     11.3       2736        3333           3.75           232.1          430.5  1
u
1 19  415  321 0100   C.NAKHON PHATHOM                KAMPHAENG SAEN                  25.9      48.0       8365        8982           3.75           258.0          478.6
r  20  522 1006 0100   C.CHIANG.MAI                   A.SAN KAMPHAENG                  12.0     22.3       5334        6589           3.75           270.0          500.8  1
z  21  414  321 0300   J. U-THONG                     J. TO C.SUPHAN BURI             20.0      37.1       3326        3571           3.76           290.0          537.9
  22  536  101 1300   J.TO A.SA                      MUNI. OF NAM                     13=0     24.1       1410        1742           3.77           3u3.0          562.1
r  23  414  321 0300   J.U-THONG                      J.TO C.SUPHAN BURI               16.0     29.7       3326        3571           3.79           319.0          591.7
$  24  411 31t 0100   MIN PURI                       SO! ONNUT (LAT KRABANG).         10.6     19.7       4433        4760           3.80           329.6          611.4
25  431    1 0500   PHUKHAE                        LOP BURI              ***       29.1     54.0       3578        3842           3.80           358.7          665.4
26  321 4013 0100   NAKiIONSIrHAKMARAr             PAK PANUNG                       7.0     13.0       1188        1447           3.80           365.7          678.4
27  311    4 4330   J.T!H  CHAMiUANG               J.KHO HONG                      10.0     18.6       1210        1474           3.83           375.7          696.9
28  522  107 0200   MAE TAENG BRG.(S)              J.TO A.PHRAO                    10.0     18.6       1129        1395           3.88           385.7          715.5
29  313   42 0400   J.BAN NIAKET                   J.SAPHAN SAMMAKKHI              10.0      18.6      2386        2907           3.94           395.7          734.0
30  321 401. 0100   NAKHONSITHAMMARAT              PAK PANUNG                       9.0      16.7      1188        1447           3.98           404.7          750.7
31  324  402 D20i   SARAS1I4 PRG.                  Pi-lUKET                        14.5     26.9       5547        6757           4.00           419.2          777.6
32  413  335 0102   PAJ;GKOK D}ST.                 A.0NG KHARAK                    15.0     27.8       4158        6601           4.00           434.2          805.4t
33  414  321 0202   THON BURI DIST.                J.U-THONG                       10.0     18.6       3295        3538           4.1?           444.2          824.0
34  513   12 0200   ORG. KFM.83+023 E.             J.TO A.PHRAN KRATAI             13.0     24.1       1262        1559           4.16           457.2          848.1
35  32  40t3 01 00   NA ION ITHAMARAT              PAK PANUNG                      10.0     18.6       1188        1447           4.16           467.2          866.7
36  414  321 0202   THON PURI DIST.                J. U-THONG                      19.0     55.2       3295        35J8           4.24           486.2          901.9
37  412 3081 0100   THA RUA                        PHRA THAN DONG RANG             10.8     20.0       5188        5571           4.66           497.0          921.9
3a  431    i 0600   C.LOP BURI                     A.KHOK SAMRONG                  35.9     66.6       1509        1620           4.67           532.9          988.5
O  412 32-D  O 01   THAMAKA                         NONG TAK YA          ***        28.8     39.5       2759        2962           2.10           561.7         1028.0 1 j
40  515  203 0100   LUM SAK                        LUM KAO              1***       13.5     18.5       1364        1685           3 80           L 7  2.       1046
,,  tt  o2t 21                   NG                  A.NUUNHJAANA DAM                24.0      32.9        537         575          3.87            599.2         1079.4l r'
,4  42  424 3074 O01O   KABINBURI BYPASS                                               5.6       7.7       1009?       1083           3.92           604.8         1087.0
H  43  333 3177 0100   C.PETCHABURI                   CHAO SAMRAN BEACH               15.2      20.8       1745        2126           3.98           620.0         1107.9   w
44  415 3091 0100   SETTHAKIT 1                                                    19.8     27.1       5828        6258           4.00           639.8         1135.0   w
CJ  45  519  115 0300   SAM NGAM                      C.PICHIT              ****      10.0      13.7       t730        2137           4.00           649.8         1148.7
_4  -- - -   -   - - -   - - - - -                   -   -- - - - -  -__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _- --__ _ _ _- - --__ _-_-_ _-__ _    _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Eligible Project Roads - Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
NO    IDENTIFIER         ORIGIN                      DESTINATION                    LENGTH    COST/I  AADTi83/2  AADT186/2  RATING SCORE  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
46  617   24 0300   NONG KI                         NANG RONG                        31.8      43.6       2275         2436           4.00            681.6         1192.2
47  313   42 0502   J.TO C.PATTANI                  KM.3+768                           1.8      2.5       2038         2483           4.00            683.4         1194.7
4B  531  101 1100   J.TO A.SONG                     MAE SAKHON BRG.       ***4       35.8      49.0        519          641           4.20            719.2         1243.8
49  621 2039 0100   A.NAM PHONG                     A.KRANUAN                        16.0      21.9       1551         1660           4.22            735.2         1265.7
50  3<1    4 4300   J.THA CHAMUANG                  J.hHO HONG                        11.0     15.1       1210         1474           4.28            746.2          1280.8
51  522  107 0200   MAE TAENG BRG.(S)               J.TO A.PHRAO                      10.0     13.7       1129         1395           4.30            756.2          1294.5
52  433  311 0200   C.SING BUR!                     C.CHAI NAT                        9.0      12.3        8Bt          946           4.32            765.2          1306.8
53  536  101 1_00   HUAI MAE SAKHON BRG.(N)         J.TO A.SA                         10.0     13.7        434          536           4.34            775.2          1320.5
54  621 2039 0100   A.NAM PHONG                     A.KRAN.;AN                        16.0     21.9       1551         1660           4.36            791.2          1342.4
55  513   12 0200   ERG.KM.83+023                   J.TO PHAN KRATAb                 29.3      40.1       1262         1559           4.50            820.5         1382.5
56  633  2. 0204   KM.117+386                       ROI ET                             0.4      0.5       1656         1773           4.50            820.9          1383.1
57  633   23 0403   ROI ET                          YAK TO A.PHON THON6              26.9      36.9       1656         1773           4.50            847.8          1419.9
58  519  II1 OIC0    SAK LEK                        PHICHIT                           15.7     21.5        1287        1590           4.50            863.5          1441.5
59  411 3117 0100   KHLON6 DAN                      BANG Po                            7.9     10.8       2796         3002           4.50            871.4          1452.3
60  522  107 0200   MAE TAENG BRG.(S)               J.TO A.PHRAO                      10.0     13.7       1129         1395           4.57            881.4         1(66.0
61  536  101 1200   HUAI MAE SAKHON BRG.(N)         .I.TO A.SA                       10.0      13.7         434         536           4.61            891.4          1479.7
62  522  107 0200   MAE TAENG BRG.(S)               J.TO A.PHRAO                      10.0     13.7       1129         1395           4.66            901.4          1493.4
z  63  426    3 0700   J.TO A.BAN KHAI                  NOEN DIN DAENG                   13.8      16.9       2919        3134            4.66            915.2         1512.3   1
  64  413  309 02CO   J.U-THONG ROAD                   J.TO A.PHOTHONG                  16.0      21.9       1073        1152            4.67            931.2         15 4.2
E  65  611  201 O002   A.SI KHUI                        A.DAt1 KHUN THOT                 23.0      31.5       1248        1336            4.68            954.2         1565.7
6 b6  514 3001 0100  KNHAI TANAN                       N?KIAUIN EAWAN STA.                6.3       8.6       3013        3722            4.69            960.5         1574.3
X  67  313   42 0300   J.TO A.THEPHA                    B.NAKET                          12.4      17.0        661         805            4.71           972.9          1591.3
>  68  632  214 02JO   B.LAM CHI                        C.ROI ET                          9.0      12.3        784         839            4.76            981.9         1603.7
<  69  322    4 3800   I.THA JEAN C.TRANG               W.KHLONG SAI KAO BRG.            18.5      25.3       1200        1462            4.80           1000.4         1629.0
=  70  4-b  333 0101   R.1                              UTHAI THANT                      15.b      21.4       2530        27V7            4.86          1tO6.0          1650.4
$  71  '23  317 OCI   CHANTHABURI                      SA KAEO                          23.2      31.8       3724        3999            4.89           1039.2         1682.2
72  615   24 0600   A.PRASAT                        A.SONG;HA                         46.0     63.0         6S2         709           4.99           10E5.2          1745.2
73  4 2     3 0900   J.TO A.BAN KHAI                NOEN DIN DAENG                    13.0     17.8       2919         3134           4.99           1098.2          1763.0
74  512   12 0100   TAK                             BRG.KM.83+023                    35.5      48.6        706          872           5. C           1133.7          1811.6
72  611  201 0201   A.DAN KhUN THOT                 A.NONG eUA XHOK                  25.0      34.3        1062        1137           5.00           1158.7          1845.9
76  633   23 0402   CY PASS ROI ET                  BY PASS ROI ET                    7.8      10.7        709          759           5.00           t166.5          1856.6
77  633   23  5001   J.TO A.PHON THONG              J.TO A.AMNAT CHAROEN              38.4     52.6        1171        1254           5.00           1204.9          1909.2
73  4t4  2c0 0200   J.R.321                        BArJG LI                          10.3      14.1       1447        155'           5.15           1215.2          1923.3
79   2i  t08 04CO   HOT                             MAE SARIANS                      68.5      93.8         441         545           5.37           1283.7          2017.1
80  432 _048 0120   J.R.I(HiJAI BONG)               THA LAN                            7.0      9.6        1556        tL71           5.39           1290.7          20b6.7
81  511   12 0650   J.TO B.SAK LEK                  J.TO A.NAKHONTHAI                 10.0     13.7        1849        2284           5.45           1300.7          2040.4
82  511   12 06B0   J.TO B.SAK LEK                  J.TO A.NAKHONTHAI                 10.0      13.7       1849        2284           5.45           1310.7          2054.1
83  533 1020 0200  .JN.1(C.CHIANG RAI)              B.PCNG KLUA BRG.                  14.0     19.2        1122        1386           5.45           1324.7          2073.3
eA        I 1nc Q-1   rTCT rulA,irm4AT               '- 0Ap!A--                       33.2     45,5         41          545           5.86           1357.9          2118.8
n5  412  324 0101   KANCHANABURI                    PHANOM THUAN                      19.8     27.1        1245        1337           6.14           1377.7          2145.9
86  536  101 1200   HUAI MAO SAKHON 2RG.            J.TO A.2A                          7.0       9.6        434         536           6.20           1384.7          2155.5
87  415 3242 000   SAMUT SAKHON                    BANG KHUNTHIEN                    12.0      8.2       7054         7574           3.39           1396.7          2163.7 dt
88  332     4 2400   A.KAPER                        KHLONG KA,1 PHUAN                 10.0      6.8         903        11D0            3.90          140b.7          2i73.5 P:
,    - o7 -i    4 240U   A.l.AI                         KHLVNG KA1A PHUAN                10.0       6.8        903         1100           3.93           1416.7         2177.3 cL-H
02)D  532  10  0500   SAWANKHALOKE                 SRISATCHANALAI         ***        29.2      19.9       1952        2411           4.00           1445.9          2197.1
0  91  331    4 2L00   A.KAPER                          KHLONG hAM PHUAN                 9.0       6.1        903         1100           4.14           1454.9          2203.2    J
? 92  323    4 3102   J.TQA.KA PONG                     A. THAP PUT                      20.0      13.6        836         1018           4.15           1474.9          2216.8   .
b  93  331    4 2500   KHI-ONG KAM PHUAN                A.KHUFRA RURI                      7.0      4.8       2626         3199           4.18           1481.9          2221.6
94  521  108 0200   MIAE HFAN BRG.(N)               HUA  iLING BPG.(N)                15.0      10.2       2437        3011            4.22          1496.9          2231.8
90   4 3  311 0200   C.SINs 8URIC C.HA! N:T                                          jO. I       6.6       e81          946           4.23           1506.9          223 .6



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Eligible Project Roads - Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
NO    IDENTIFIER        ORIGIN                      DESTINATION                   LENGTH    COST/I  AADTi83/2  AADTt86/2  RATING SCORE  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/I
96  413 3064 0100   J.R.309(C.ANG THONG)           MAE NAK NOI BRG. N.             10.5      7.1       3460        3715           4.29          1517.4         2245.7
97  324    4 3101   E.KHLONG TA KUA TUNG BRG.   J.TO A.KA PONG                     18.2     12.4       1353        1648           4.40          1535.6         2258.1
98  433  311 0200   C.SING BURI                    C.CHAI NAT                      20.0     13.6        881         946           4.41          1555.6         2271.7
99  435  205 0400   I.B.BUA CHOM(A.CHAI BADAN)  LAM SONTHI                         15.0     10.2       1512        1623           4.46          1570.6         2281.9
100  423  317 0101   CHANTHABURI                    SA KAEO                         25.0      17.0      3724        3999           4.47          1595.6         2298.9
101  317   42 0701   SAI BURI                      NARATHIWAT                       21.1     14.3       1404        1710           4.50          1616.7         2313.3
102  433  311 0200   C.SING BURI                   C.CHAI NAT                       10.0      6.8        881         946           4.50          1626.7         2320.1
103  515   21 0800   BY PASS B.WANG CHOM PHU       C.PHETCHABUN                     20.8     14.1       1847        2282           4.50          1647.5         2334.2
104  311    4 4300   J.THA CHAMUANG                J.KHO HONG                       12.0      8.2       1210        1474           4.55          1659.5         2342.4
105  521  108 0200   MAE KHAN BRG.(N)              HOAI ELING BRG.(N)               15.0     10.2       2437        3011           4.58          1674.5         2352.6
106  514 3002 0100   NAKHON SAWAN I                 THA TA KUI                       4.2      2.9       4234        5231           4.60          1678.7         2355.4
107  332   41 0200   SI YAK PATHOMPHON             LANG SUAN                        21.2     14.4       1888        2300           4.63          1699.9         2369.8
108  324 4022 0100   B.TINKHAO                     B.RA NGENG                        4.0      2.7       1204        1467           4.71          1703.9         2372.6
1D9  435  205 0400   I.B.BUA CHOM(A.CHAI BADAN)  LAM SONTHI                         16.0      10.9      1512        1623           4.76          1719.9         2383.4
110  322    4 3600   J.TO A.SI KAO                 J.TO A.THUNG SONG                16.1     10.9       1255        1529           4.82          1736.0         2394.4
III  332   41 0300   SI YAK PATHOMPHON             LANG SUAN                        17.0      11.6      1680        2047           4.82          1753.0         2405.9
112  321  401 1100   A.THA SALA                    B.THA PHAE                       10.4      7.1       2323        2830           4.93          1763.4         2413.0
113  413  305 0200   A.ONG KHARAK                   C.NAKHON NAYOK                  15.0      10.2      1874        2012           4.94          1778.4         2423.2
114  426    30900  .J.TO A.BAN KHAl                NOEN DIN DAENG                   12.0      8.2       2919        3134           4.96          1790.4         2431.4
115  321  401 1100   A.THA SALA                    B.THA PHAE                        8.7      5.9       2323        2830           5.05          1799.1         2437.3
116  632  214 0100   C.KALASIN                     B.LUM CHAI                       14.0      9.5       1ti6        1195           5.06          1813.1         2446.8   1
117  313   42 0300   J.TO A.THEPHA                 B.NAKET                          10.0      6.8        661         805           5.07          1823.1         2453.6
118  611  206 0102   YAK RT.206                    J. RT.2163                        5.0      3.4       1441        1543           5.10          1828.1         2457.0   
119  415   35 0200   W.THACHIN BRG.                E.BANG PRACHANT                  28.6     19.4       8619        9255           5.12          1856.7         2476 5
120  615  214 0801   C.SURIN                       A.PRASAT                         30.0     20.4       1615        1729           5.15          1886.7         2496.9
121  533 1020 0100   J.R.1(C.CHIANG RAI)           B.PONG KLUA BRG.                 14.0      9.5       1122        1386           5.15          1900.7         2506.4
122  415 3035 0100   J.R.321(KAMPHAENG SAEN)       BANG LEN                         21        14.5      16a3        iBio           5.i5          1922.0         2520.9
i23  .524  4U2 0tut   SAM YAK KHOK KLOI            SI YAK SARASIN BRG.               8.4      5.7       3223        3926           5.16          1930.4         2526.6
124  511   12 0600   J.TO B.SAK LEK                J.TO A.NAKHONTHAI                11.0      7.5       1849        2284           5.27          1941.4         2534.1
125  611 2160 0100   B.WAT                         A.KONG                           16.0     10.9        356         381           5.29          1957.4         2544.9
126  632  213 0101   C.MAHA SARAKHAM                C.KALASIN                       44.0     29.9       1377        1474           5.34          2001.4         2574.9
127  331    4 2400   A.KAPER                       KHLONG KAM PHUAN                  8.0      5.4        903        1100           5.34          2009.4         2580.3
128  623 2023 0100   B.NAM KONG                    A.SI THAT                        8.0       5.4       1550        1659           5.35          2017.4         2585.7
129  313   42 0200   I.NA THAWI                    J.TO A.THEPHA                    15.7     10.7        458         558           5.38          2033.1         2596.4
130  435  205 050t   LAM SONTHI BRG.(E)            J.TO A.SAMNET NARONG             15.0     10.2        653         701           5.40          2048.1         2606.6
131  332   41 0100   SI YAK PATHOMPHON             LANG SUAN                        10.0      6.8       2104        2563           5.40          2058.1         2613.4
132  332 4002 0100   A.LUNG SUAN                   PAK NAM LUNG SUAN                 7.5      5.1        447         545           5.41          2065.6         2618.5
133  614  207 0202   A.PRATHAI                      A.NONG SONG HONG                 6.0      4.1        481         515           5.43          2071.6         2622.6
1 4  511   12 0600   J.TO B.SAK LEK                 J.TO A.NAk.HI)NT4!             Io.n LI      .2      184         22a4            '      ,45   20e.8          262S.4
A35  511   12 0600   J.TO B.SAK LEN                J.TO A.NAKHONTHAI                10.0      6.8       1849        2284           5.45          2091.G         2636.2
1t6  423 3146 0100   C.CHANTHABURI                 THA CHALAEP                      10.2      6.9       1813        1947           5.45          2101.8         2643.1
137  432 3048 0100   J.R.I(HUAI SONG)               THA LAN                          7.0      4.8       1556        1671           5.48          210t.8         2647.9Q ed
138  323    4 3400   KRABI                         LUM THAB                         18.2     12.4       1394        1698           5.48          2127.0         2660.3   r
139  413  309 0200   J.U-THONG ROAD                J. TO A.PHOTHONG                 15.0     10.2       1073        1152           5.51          2142.0         2670.5  
140  324    4 2800   KLONG KAO HLUG                THAI MUANG eRG.                  17.5     11.9       1086        1323           5.51          2159.5         2682.4
141  413  305 0200   A.ONG KHARAK                   C.NAKHON NAYOK                  15.0     10.2       1874        2012           5.54          2174.5         2692.6
142  611 2175 0100   B.WANG HIN                     A.CHUM PHUANG                   18.0     12.2        748         801           5.55          2192.5         2704.8
143  614  202 0500   A.PRATHAI                      A.PHAYAKKHAPHUM PHISAI           7.0      4.8        521         558           5.55          2199.5         2709.6
144  617   24 0400   A.NANG RONG                    A.PRAKHON CHAI                  28.0      19.0      1269        1359           5.58          2227.5         2728.6
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-_- - -_ - - - - - - - - - - -_ - _- _- _-



THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Eligible Project Roads - Strengthening/Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
_ -------------------------------------------_____---_-_---_
NO    IDENtIFIER         ORIGIN                       DESTINATION                     LENGTH    COST/I  AADT,83/2  AADT,86/2  RATING SCORE  TOTAL LENGTH  TOTAL COST/1
___________ -----_--_-_---_-_---------------_-_----------------------------------------------------___________________--------------               -   ---------  -  -----------  -
145  322    4 3800   I.THA JEAN C.TPANG               W.KHLONG SAI KAO BRG.             15.4      1D.5       1200         1462           '.58           2242.9          2739.1
 146  332   41 0100   SI YAK PATHOMPHON                LANG SUAN                         18.5      12.6       2104         2563            5.63          2261.4          2751.7
147  517    1 1400   J.TO A.KHANU WORALAKBURI    J.TO A.KLONGKHLUNG                      14.0       9.5       2877         3554            5.64          2275.4          2761.2
148  631   24 1001   A.WARIN CHAMRAP                  A.DET UDOM                         9.0       6.1       1182         1265           6.35           2284.4          2767.3
0 149  519   11 0303   B.WANG MA DUA                    KHAO SAI                          21.8      14.8        975         1204            6.40          2306.2          2782.1
150  514   11 0200   TAK FA                           8.WANG MA DUA                     69.9      47.5        975         1204           6.41           2376.1          2829.6
                   _        _       ___---_-___--------------______ -------------------------_-_-_-_______-_____.______________--------------- ---- ------ _--------
/I Financial cost in millions of bath at end - 1983 Prices
/2 Averase annual daily vehicle traffit
Source: Programminq Section   Department ot Highways
JICA
Louis Berser / AEC
May 1963
4.-.



- 82 -                                 Table 3.4
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAI, ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project ta
Baht (million)            US$ (million) /b       % Foreign
Project Component              Local  Foreigni Total    Local  Foreign  Total    exchange
component
A. Construction and improve-
ment of about 1,000 km of
provincial roads:
1.  Civil works                  961     787   1,748    41.80   34.20   76.00         45
2.  Supervision                   35      11       46      1.50    0.50    2.00       25
Subtotal A                 996      798   1,794    43.30   34.70   78.00
B. Strengthening or rehabi-
litation of about 1,000 km
of paved national and pro-
vincial roads:
1.  Civil works                  645     528   1,173    28.05   22.95   51.00         45
2.  Supervision                   35      11       46     1.50    0.50    2.00        25
Subtotal B                 680      539   1,219    29.55   23.45   53.00
C. Sector and project
preparation studies               35      11       46     1.50    0.50    2.00        25
D.  Technical Assistance               4       16      20      0.17    0.70    0.87        80
E.  Right of way                      62        -      62      2.70    -        2.70       -
Subtotal A-E             1,777   1,364   3,141    77.22   59.35  136-57
F. Contingency allowances:
1.  Physical /c                  177     137      314     7.70    5.96   13.66
2.  Price /d                     206     171      377     8.93    7.44   16.37
Subtotal F                 383      308      691    16.63   13.40   30.03
Total Cost of Project   2,160   1,672   3,832    93.85   72.75  166.60           44
/a  Financial cost; taxes are included in local costs.
/b At current exchange rate of US$1.00 = Baht 23.
7E 10% on all items.
/d At assumed annual rates of:
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Local cost (%)             7       7        7       6        6
Foreign costs (%)         8        7.5      7       6        6
Source: Department of Highways and Bank staff.
May 1983



- 83 -
Table 3.5
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project item (and executing agency)                              Implementation
Start         Complete
Part A: Road Construction and Improvement (DOH)
1.    Prequalification of contractors.                    Feb. 28, 83    June 15, 83
2.    Send out invitations to prequalified contra-
ctors to bid on first years construction
program, totalling about 700 km:
Group 1 (350 km)                                               Jul 1, 83
Group 2 (350 km)                                               Aug 1, 83
3.    Receive and open bids on first year's constru-
ction program:
Group 1                                                        Sep 1, 83
Group 2                                                        Oct 1, 83
4.    Evaluation of bids by consultants and receipt
by Bank of report of consultants on bids on
first year's construction program, with
Government's proposals for award:
Group 1                                                        Oct 1, 83
Group 2                                                        Nov 1, 83
5.    Appoint consultants for supervision of constru-
ction and award contracts for construction of
first year's construction program:
Group 1                                                       Feb 1, 84
Group 2                                                       Mar 1, 84
6.    Complete detailed engineering, cost estimates,                      Nov 1, 84
bid documents and updating of economic eval-
uation of remainder of construction program,
totalling about 300 km.



- 84 -
Table 3.5
Page 2
Project item (and executing agency)                              Implementation
Start         Complete
Part A: (Cont'd)
7.    Invite bids for remainder of construction program:
Group 3 (300 km)                                                Dec 1, 84
8.    Receive and open bids on remainder of
construction program:
Group 3                                                         Feb 1, 85
9.    Evaluation of bids and receipt by the Bank
of consultants' report on bids for re-
mainder of construction program with
Government's proposals for award:
Group 3                                                         Mar 1, 85
10.   Appoint consultants for supervision of
construction and award contracts for
construction of remainder of construction
program:
Group 3                                                         Jul 1, 85
11.   Construction of project roads:
First year's construction program:
Group 1                                       Mar 1, 84         Sep 1, 86
Group 2                                       Apr 1, 84         Oct 1, 86
Remainder of construction program:
Group 3                                       Aug 1, 85         Feb 1, 88



_ 85 -
Table 3.5
Page 3
Project item (and executing agency)                          _Iplementation
Start         Complete
Part B: Road Strengthening and Rehabilitation (DOH)
1.    Complete feasibility studies and selection of
roads for detailed engineering:
Group 1                                                         Oct 1, 83
Groups 2 and 3                                                  Dec 1, 83
2.    Detailed engineering and bid documents:
Group 1                                       Nov 1, 83         Jun 1, 84
Group 2                                       Jan ', 84         Aug 1, 84
Group 3                                       Mar 1, 84         Oct 1, 84
3.    Prequalification of contractors.                                      Oct 1, 84
4.    Send out invitations to prequalified
contractors to bid on:
Group 1                                                         Aug 1, 84
Group 2                                                         Jan 1, 85
Group 3                                                         Jun 1, 85
5.    Receive and open bids on:
Group 1                                                        Sep 15, 84
Group 2                                                        Feb 15, 85
Group 3                                                        Jul 15, 85
6.    Evaluation of bids by consultants and receipt
by Bank of report of consultants on bids,
with Government's proposals for award:
Group 1                                                        Oct 15, 84
Group 2                                                        Mar 15, 85
Group 3                                                        Aug 15, 85
7.    Appoint consultants for supervision of works
and award contracts for:
Group 1                                                        Feb 1, 85
Group 2                                                        Jul 1, 85
Group 3                                                        Dec 1, 85
8.    Strengthening/rehabilitation of prolect roads:
Group 1                                       Mar 1, 85       Sep 1, 86
Group 2                                       Aug 1, 85        Feb 1, 87
Group 3                                       Jan 1, 86        Jul 1, 87



_-86 -                              Table 3.5
Page 4
Project item (and executing agency)                              Implementation
Start         Complete
Part Cl: Inter-city and Rural Bus Study (MOC)
1.    Agreement of Government and Bank on subjects
for study                                                           Jun 1, 83
2.    Draft terms of reference in agreement with          Jun 1, 83         Sep 1, 83
Bank
3.    Invite and receive proposals from consultants   Oct 1, 83            Dec 1, 83
4.    Evaluate proposals and receipt by Bank of
proposed selection                                 Dec 1, 83        Feb 1, 84
5.    Negotiate with selected consultants and             Mar 1, 84        Jun 1, 84
and sign contracts
6.    Carry out study                                     Jul 1., 84       Jul 1, 86
7.    Review of study by Government and Bank              Aug 1,, 86       Dec 3186
Part C2:  Other Sector Studies (MOC)
1.    Agreement of Government and Bank on subjects
for study                                                           Jun 1, 84
2.    Draft terms of reference in agreement with          Jun 1, 84         Sep 1, 84
Bank
3.    Invite and receive proposals from consultants   Oct 1, 84            Dec 1, 84
4.    Evaluate proposals and receipt by Bank of
proposed selection                                 Dec 1, 84        Feb 1, 85
5.    Negotiate with selected consultants and             Mar 1, 85         Jun 1, 85
sign contracts
6.    Carry out studies                                   Jan 1, 85        Jun 1, 87
7.    Review of studies by Government and Bank                             Dec 31,87



- 87 -                             Table 3.5
Page 5
Project item (and executing agency)                              Implementation
Start         Complete
Part C3: Studies and Engineering for Future
Road Projects (DOH)
1.    Agreement of Government and Bank on subjects
for study                                                          Sep  1, 83
2.    Draft terms of reference in agreement with          Oct 1, 83       Feb  1, 84
Bank
3.    Invite and receive proposals from consultants   Mar 1, 84           May  1, 84
4.    Evaluate proposals and receipt by Bank of
proposed selection                                May 1, 84        Jul  1, 84
5.    Negotiate with selected consultants and             Aug 1, 84       Nov  1, 85
and sign contracts
6.    Carry out studies                                   Jan 1, 85       Dec  1, 86
7.    Review studies and select, in agreement with
Bank, roads for engineering                        Dec 1, 85       Mar  1, 86
8.    Invite and receive proposals from consultants   Apr 1, 86           Jun  1, 86
9.    Evaluate proposals and receipt by Bank of
proposed selection                                 Jun 1, 86       Aug  1, 86
10.   Negotiate with selected consultants and
sign contracts                                     Sep 1, 86       Dec  1, 86
11.   Carry out engineering                               Jan 1, 87       Dec 31, 87



- 88 -
Table 3.5
Page 6
Project item (and executing agency)                              Implementation
Start         Complete
Part Dl: Technical Assistance to MOC (MOC)
1.    Agreement of Government and Bank on subjects
for technical assistance                                            Sep 1, 84
2.    Draft terms of reference in agreement with
Bank                                               Sep 1, 84        Dec 1, 84
3.    Invite and receive proposals from consultants   Jan 1, 85            Mar 1, 85
4.    Evaluate proposals and receipt by Bank of
proposed selection                                 Mar 1, 85        May 1, 85
5.    Negotiate with selected consultants and sign
contract                                           Jun 1, 85        Sep 1, 85
6.    Provision of technical assistance                   Oct 1, 85        Oct 1, 87
Part D2: Technical Assistance to DOH (DOH)
1.    Draft terms of reference in agreement with
Bank                                               Jan 1, 84        Apr 1, 84
2.    Invite and receive proposals from consul-
tants                                             May 1, 84         Jul 1, 84
3.    Evaluate proposals and receipt by Bank of
proposed selection                                 Jul 1, 84        Sep 1, 84
4.    Negotiate with selected consultants and
sign contract                                      Oct 1, 84        Jan 1, 85
5.    Provision of technical assistance                   Feb 1, 85        Dec 1, 87
Source: Ministry of Communications, Department of Highways and Bank Staff.
May 1983



- 89 -
Table 3.6
THAILAND
SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD fiscal                                        Cumulative disbursements
year and quarter                                        at end of quarter
(US$ million)
1983/84
September 30, 1983
December 31, 1983                                             -
March 31, 1984                                                0.3
June 30, 1984                                                 2.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                            4.5
December 31, 1984                                             8.0
March 31, 1985                                               12.0
June 30, 1985                                                16.0
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                          22.0
December 31, 1985                                            31.0
March 31, 1986                                               41.0
June 30, 1986                                                53.0
1986/87
September 30, 1986                                          65.0
December 31, 1986                                            75.0
March 31, 1987                                               83.0
June 30, 1987                                                90.0
1987/88
September 30, 1987                                           93.5
December 31, 1987                                            97.0
March 31, 1988                                               99.0
June 30, 1988                                              100.0
Source: Department of Highways and Bank staff.
May 1983



THAILAND  SECOND PROVINCIAL ROA    PROJ
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
~~~~~~~~~~F%OfFCUEMI I                            C toc R EeN ~ #TS NALetCES                              fLIGA$t lT oF*            *Aw w$eONEL                PLOsISLCATION*NA D CN                          U MAIR,,LS               T RAIRN  RFI NINEfIND SCDIO
ADuNlsEAlvE  LCIOh       /DETl VNwvicV,lCe ~        tWMN tOWI4    NWl.lIN,RA*TVE SICflO  ttIGAL JERVs            LVNO EV,LUAT,Of      .OM,N,SmVNIVE SECTION      ADlU.ISTR,VE SECYON   ADYINISIRAIIVE SECIION  AoNIN,sNNTIVe SVCT,oN    TNO,NNIGPeRON*ARDDTOMYAIEETO*MINITOlSC,
trGOD5 UAN^GEUt     VO 5CINCbUINO        O*T T_O    RO          SETOICE SECTION                                     TOIOITIOR N           Ea_E S     GeCTIONIU SOR*E*NCIIDR            TICTTN    StECI1NSCIT    ITCO,TCEESCTITEO            OTTITON  MONOCSINOTTTTC StV1O N          LI10    F
5tC 110 ~    FOltCI ACCON llto    SOCIIOE  CDIR            lstvc SECOIC SIDN I                                 550 TECONO          SECIIODR   STICTNI        SETIN                    1010 &llA  DSTTCTOTC secrl CAutAS                OOOINOIRAINING  EANtICE  0D 01 IOTE ANI
TANeOTESCE         NNFCTNSING TECTICT       SECTION                                                                 ERSOTINEL RECGRGT         LA TCONETCENTATIOS      DEISIG                  TOUNOATION SECTION       R.EIRODUCIION SERVICE    TTTTTI OTAN siCsI
ECCCOUIINO SECIIOIE    ONSTTOCT SECTION       EnCRXECTICSECcT                                                                                                                                                          Wt-                                                                  -1-
A.-I-T                                                                                               -.T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TTEROETIT              COT
.ATA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
TOSIIOIICO~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ENNIEN TEGINEER*                        | |OE ROESNDNE                                        OFN   lRo
DIVII NOONN               COEOIRUIO  DlVIStNTIL           CIVISIIR |A     | CDNORTE   O DV INOT |        FNDOF IE
t..........J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ RlZtSDlER I- .jID........  L..JNAEIR L .   c.....  |______                         TOTCTON         OPRAIEEEO    |       O
_NT            EUT|TEI           C TSO             RTTNITTI G I                      CTETAlI               -.A
i t3 =2 893 | K CHAI  ZAT   T S                                                                            C                  C                                                  EO Y |ON          0 bN
W   P A X >   Xt gl   t |   tA C H A I tl  | |   @ A G   1     B 1   1 F   I A 1   |   ^S   ] |   L A H U   | |   UI A R A D I   |  t P H   ] |  DON C   E   N O R TO7GNIEC            UATOlEN
0~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ^AHlA   HKT|4<,t,1A0  8  SHNOEI|8TAT||UHl TOOI||14NDG14^I>   ^   CAOEM 









X ' ~'; 00S r W-_                             -__W                     _    _
9 s6L31 CM   I






r ~  ~     ~     ~      H                                                        --                        ThKeee fw pp                                                                                                 icr S 3X 
N. W.q                 -o         0,. -_                          _    _      t Y
The-           OoP.R P_o                          4 Ch.~                                                 
e     W           U          S           g          $    )        o      HtooJo          9  tthoo4 HotgS
DoogMoDo'~~~~~~~~~6 }                             ..          - 
0  <               iS                                /'$     nNar .--- o                  MoDv \pm     <     G        4oobo           h 0 UD   ~        - __    _        -
< T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.,                                                                       ~                                   CK-X f X
;~~~~~o  oe                              ;               N\ToWen p                                                       lArhn onvToen       tKog\  _A_7S<o-~  e_
2h                                                                                                               N- PSooi  N   Do  lIt oot  N
<2                    p                                                   1   0.}0 0                          g                            :: :;       ;0 9  ,o  I     0                        OEMOC  APX- T IC7Z  ,  ,  t              aL  9  B
z~~~~~~ebe   ,>                                 Pbo           450etopoe       Cho                           Leek       >Sdo                      (         K      r REtUBL  %\ 1VnD  
' < 0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot  Noo                                                                                                             2--  -os ee
F.                       -PI,I1,.kp~~~~~~~~.  eo              toS
;:~~~~~~~~~~~S                                         Chon  0    . ;R      A         HaCoe    K n' i   i                                      No b               H
i                                            M wt t0                                                             in\  0                                         000; ;0   | ("Tln liD',4|aNonPi /- SpooTo \
;  i;;  ;5 t ih    t            -.   Mo            tl=toot     Lop                                             ;80 I-be/j oT k Peo  $000     -                   N          c     o 
r vX8  CX   tf  r          i        t            |        \                                       >* 94)al bo                   rtR            t           $;j      5ooctt
bEtfdh\<0~~~~~~~~~~~ Lacpogk                                                                                   H  ;C   o <fugrozon -oete p010
200t   /rl~N- HoaeSo ,                              \9av:Tot  Ho  A                                             I                                                        LoANo0~    D
<   i,r;    A X  :        Ct'//T/                                                                                 NORTHERN REGION~~~~~~~~N  R TFA TFR
'-leo  0M-                                         0>000       ~       ~       M
ieoei                                    0In       N             tI.totot
lopte.Tak
,Spteg phd                            IS 'o                   10 oN     <0
g~~~~ Uig tRot k M'A                                 S:                            PoFtChooRro         tPlnsP $ooo --egoes                                gkoud
r               i tl                                    "F0o  r-TcoWN   o          n                                                                                                           - -Inent.ntIbud re  
e D  :    0mt   Cir         j                                     It a,j                                                                 0010s08rs  o 
'""  , ,, lAO          -   t          -t-tRot                                                01rAntor2p 42fanseos                     KIL3MErERs n         2n       40        oo  70  ao  20                    T.t
N200                              '-AbTadrFs'                                              -oHo                           \IC                      4>0 Lr             THAILAND                     t        s                  2'       j7
REGION                                             PROJECT ROADS~~~~~~~~~.,  ."
I o~ OroteE~,~    -                                                                                                   "'"~    end  ot Proonciol-Roo-eKProjct
S.f0400-                                      S    t000  00  o.o---lo----s--                                                                                oina   ltlos             -o-o'-O    otw4
1jo-                                                                                                                                                                                   CoolAHeel Scoedort--ee
1ocotonkeo  o       oOoO 000 Oa bototlot'0o oONOkh
504c                                    00000105   *  t                                                                                  nae                                       Rgoo   ocae 
cr141100 W000100tlltetOdRte                                                                                        -'-' Intercationel bKundenth
PWUF$RwW                                                                                                                  h- ot    400 noOlnioa0ctooo
A                                                                                                    Th,00    ocooeoo  It  01 r10t
So/QP'  tAlHNIA  ~             klc  :e,z0 0ns               ol                                            0                     HI lMEl25t05    9   09nc  o TpHc K                         19






0            ~~~AO PEOPLE'
v- P,                                    D~~~C ~EMOCRATIC
fCh~~,gKh~,-~                                            N,,~H,   ~                                REPKhaC
--~~~~~N. DLNo,,o,g                                                    okor         O      Kak
NOR TNERN ~ ~ ~ ~ R. T
/           4,, Kh,L                          -~~~N h 
/                                       NORT~~~~4EASTERN 1, N~EGIONi
R,IGION ~  ~      ~     ~      CNT~    RLIN           )ROET~A
4r,rpx   (1                                                                           .--- T.,- h-
~~d  7                                                             - - -           -* ~R-  ph-- 4-.
444, 6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-h,kh  hM  c..h



I



=1J   J                                                            'oH               Iph.
- (          NORTHERN                   REGION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AORHE5rRNREIO
*-'7s ~ ~  ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N
rcj  '\                                                                       pscocoseaca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
N                                                                                                        I
5.                                                       NcraMaio          r                NJ.
)                                                                                                              /  Sad"~~~~~~~~ha-
N3(                                                         CoalMIa-NO   I/ATEN RQO
u                             lh_~~~cre  00rba  lo0                                                             rctacrtr
P"                                                                                                                OIJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  APCHE-A
Th~ ~ ~~~~-dhca~Ia 
PROJECT POACh~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I--- P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Cecrclc   ndierooel   atTrc9r6h-ihaa   roet
T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~cdatPootlRod   rjc
SA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ccrrlo   n    rrcrea    n    rsoc   od   r,c
Ears Ire4 caliceal highways~~~~~~~~~~~~~
____________________________                                                                                          s    trg  rceca    ro d,
OUOO5~~~~~~~  aN. esOr'-\                                            -         Posed~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Np
j    p  rzecoc                                                                          Unp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAvIed AN
C/ON                                                                                                                                     it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CETA   EIO  ~  ~
2  ANd THONG              -  -  -  Ragiccal hace-dctnhiesh 6t Hih.a  P,j~M
-d atretica P-cdaies -d   `j
lar4kok  c-~~~~~~~e  REGION   S  oicico NAKsroio'Oe At'c,dTpr-TidarioP.li~4  i-d P,j,,
0 alNcSoorC  (      S  O5TtrO/Ot THAN!           ~            ~            0  ~,.gp,6-if .d,
- t  WNTROi  hccshACt*c   R         S  NCNTO/A POOP!         ~         ~         - -- -- - ~p-
I /NN N-                                                   noi   /f                                            icriic-0A1                  5        0        0       0
N  1'               7  SAOtO!TSAAWON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rle,
~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~  ~ ~ ~~   ~ ~ ~ ~                                                MLES~~~~NO .  0~M   20           aJ0
55055r  .00k-- eA- i c caA ONONoO3oar icccoatccal c-M'ccleiaslc   o,coN -a
________________                    A-                             PA -14 THA 'WOorcir,c/r,o   rcnrcciorscprccaaracse.                                               s






.J:> CENTRAI                                    To
2~~     2    1/   REGIONAH IL                                                                               N
4=              - -' -':&On-''JopKOK        <:                               .SECOND PRVINCIAL  ROADS-PROJECT
t:-5     ;                                                    , :       IVhuWsn                                            SO UTHERN REGION
lwi                                                                                                               end 1      ...m Sooner  P:    d s m   t.t  ugthouw 6th  t wy Projects
: 1 ;  f:  0  Phon 0'rCkp o an  g ); 0 f  ; ; ;1 L: :;  :: ;;  :!: ;i J :                     Construrn and improvement -Zrd Provincial Roads-Project
-Existingj nationatb9l hrlhwys
:^  - -           C>  < oi50loi ,                                                          Existinq-praernciat roads::
K 7                                                                                       Posed
hr   ,j    ti,00   N~~Kh                                                           ------   Unpaved
A;                     4'!              tK/s -02 tW holu  W     i t =0- s-s-n- 0 i; S t  00  : 9; 0: i i                       Railways
~~~~~                                    PllNzoleq2-    Rivers[
H         fi A ganna   p                                                                                      @    Changwat capitols
ft=    = ,0  X           horoce                                                                                  ReinMbl;5 f 3 aSE-g    gional boundaries                     10'
IS     wVR-g--                                                                                                              -ngwt 'ootboundaries
,j  ,sr'  )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00- ~~~~~~~International boujndaries
}t,              U                                 X AX                                                               g  t0 fr X                          'KhooMoO V
r     -it -;             toe               Th \ -                                     ,rnKs}                   adMrEs    10  20 3e. h L ; X     1 >p7<0  4 0 t~  ip od  t   00;        0   
h' /;v                                                                                               A m     K.
Th. Ch.-                                    &knioolhrr
JD-  f  5 z -'.S.e Too,                        D          ag0Pnpn.  Chy, sS                                   Cas I  /,         f   f,  f   F      at   /  a        _:fS ng cE-    NEC
:   !  gi .ffiSGtOM   *   *:         t   ,-    ,  Tt&          .      ,;:o..       O   .        1-1.3'1'-_
@~~~~~~~~~~~~ ('                                              SLo =hrso .1O~~,                                              - : i      laeGbn*/  = '             'i;'i ;  ';        !t'g;    ! iS   
F- -     -A        ,c        z         pCs ecves  orst c'n   -  I                              a      S,         .f ;;lMf    ;    A                 itSft 0 0?;C-t
m,-                        N                                                                  ..
an                  N                                                         \              '       n-r 0rp         ron loh   Yso    ,
~~1~   tEnON    '1-                                                                                         n          ~---  One  nor--os,nloi, to,
99   04l9NJ              ~       N        Kh                                                                                                          Dsnoo
\  9CENF'  orCC~~C~l  in"<   ~c'                                                                                                            conY
'1   91     OAAtO'cHEA~-8                                                                                                       91                       10009       r
on,nLn'Onoroo,NonctN
m-               n,,hce-Co nt
i  --t'0PW5."fUVKLnpnnaC-N--
J                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
coon-A  ,AATAYSIA N   onn-ooooTa    on-  or                                                                                                              102'      nO~~~~~Ai
X                                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



