FILE        COPY                    The Document of
*-o  Vv- |                ~The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1839-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PREDUZECE ZA TRANSPORT
I DISTRIBUCIJU GASA SARAJEVO
(SARAJEVO GAS ENTERPRISE)
AND
"NAFTAGAS" KOMBINAT NAFTNE INDUSTRIJE
"GAS" RADNA ORGANIZACIJA TRANSPORTA
PRERADE PRIMENE I PROMETA GASA
SA SOLIDARNOM ODGOVORNOSCU NOVI SAD
(NAFTAGAS GAS UNIT)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
May 12, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dlscloOed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit               Yugoslav  Dinar (Din.)
US$1                        Din. 18.00
Din. 1                      US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                  US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000              US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of April 30, 1976.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
SGE                                          Preduzece za Transport i
Distribuciju Gasa Sarajevo
(Sarajevo Gas Enterprise)
NGU                                           "Naftagas" Kombinat Naftne
Industrije "Gas" Radna
Organizacija Transporta
Prerade Primene i Prometa Gasa
sa solidarnom odgovornoscu Novi
Sad (Naftagas Gas Unit)
SAS                                          Social Accounting Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO PREDUZECE ZA TRANSPORT I DISTRIBUCIJU GASA SARAJEVO
AND "NAFTAGAS" KOMBINAT NAFTNE INDUSTRIJE "GAS" RADNA
ORGANIZACIJA TRANSPORTA PRERADE PRIMENE I PROMETA GASA SA
SOLIDARNOM ODGOVORNOSCU NOVI SAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$38 million to Preduzece za Transport i Distribuciju
Gasa Sarajevo (Sarajevo Gas Enterprise, or SGE) (US$27 million), and "Naftagas"
Kombinat Naftne Industrije "Gas" Radna Organizacija Transporta Prerade Primene
i Prometa Gasa sa solidarnom odgovornoscu Novi Sad (Naftagas Gas Unit, or NGU)
(US$11 million), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, to help finance an air pollution control project. The portion of
the loan for SGE would have a term of 25 years, including five years of grace.
The portion for NGU would have a term of 20 years including three years of
grace. Interest would be 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An updating Economic
Memorandum (662a-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 23,
1975. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in October 1975 and the find-
ings of this mission are incorporated in this report. Basic data on the
economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1973,
per capita GNP came to about US$1010 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society. The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 38 to
20 percent while the share of industry and mining increased from 16 to 37
percent.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces to
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of labor force from agriculture to industry and
services. However, by 1974 nearly 45 percent of the resident active labor
force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly on small private
farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 21 percent, and other sectors
for 34 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitution-
al amendments which were consolidated in the new constitution of 1974. It
strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production is entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every "basic organization of as-
sociated labor" (the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation)
in every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important
social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the
Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management
and financial responsibility for social activities (like health, education,
welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to "communities of
interest" (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be - and progressively
is - similarly organized through communities of interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 per-
cent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector
is predominantly comprised of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit to land
holdings) and small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of non-
family workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport and
tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively neglected by
government policy. However, lately more attention is being devoted to pri-
vate farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural produc-
tion and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity - with a gradient of per capita income fall-
ing generally from North to South - has emerged as one of the most important
development issues of the country. Four distinct regions can be distinguished
by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia and Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia - with per capita income between 67



to 75 percent constitute the upper group among the officially designated "less
developed regions". The Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with an average in-
come of only 33 percent of the national average, is at the bottom of the spread.
These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between communes can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the less developed regions which largely determines the
disparity between the regions. The rate of economic growth of the less devel-
oped regions as a whole was only slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but
due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent
in the more developed regions) the income disparity had tended to widen sig-
nificantly during the last two decades. In order to reverse this trend and to
accelerate economic growth and social development in the less developed re-
gions, mechanisms have been instituted for sizeable transfers of financial
resources. In 1973, credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant
element of around 50 percent) were made available through the "Federal Fund"
to the less developed regions in the amount of almost US$250 million, equiv-
alent to more than 20 percent of their total investment in the social sector.
An additional US$130 million for social services were transferred as budgetary
grants. Both categories of transfers have been growing since in line with the
growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 3-4 percent of the resident labor force in 1974. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated one million out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972 respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of' tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (13 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployment and of imports - both in nominal and real terms - and domestic prices.
The gain in total employment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded



- 4 -
for the first time the natural increase of the labor force.    Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe has led to a sharp decline
in exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million
in 1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been grad-
ually tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods
and some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing the
dinar by about 7 percent as against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major trading
partners. The large current account deficit has led to some loss of foreign
exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$345 million in 1974 (com-
pared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net foreign borrowing,
which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to around US$650 million
in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers and credits from financial
institutions continued to be the major sources of foreign capital. Long-term
funds related to financing of development are being made available mainly by
the Bank and some bilateral sources (particularly the US Export-Import Bank and
Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia has also been one of the beneficiaries
of the IMF's Special Oil Facility. Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external
debt outstanding as of December 31, 1973 was US$4,319 million (disbursed only)
and is expected to have increased to about US$5.0 billion during 1974. Debt
service payments amounted to about 15.9 percent of foreign exchange earnings
(including workers remittances) in 1973 and 15.3 in 1974.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy is estimated to have receded
to 4.5 percent, due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary
policy, stagnating exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes; economic
investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus during
1975.  The inflationary pressure which built up during 1974 and extended into
1975 receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate of increase
of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent in 1974 to an annual
rate of 12 percent for the first ten months of 1975 and the index of real net
personal income remained unchanged for the same period.     The good harvest in



- 5 -
1974 has had a favorable impact on the balance of payments, although meat ex-
ports were severely affected by the European Community ban on meat imports.
Exports to oil producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area
have continued to expand rapidly in 1975, but are not expected to compensate
for the sharp decline in exports to the convertible currency area. Workers'
remittances and receipts from tourism have increased marginally. The current
account deficit for 1975 was estimated to approximate the level of 1974 on the
basis of preliminary estimates, but there are now indications that it may have
dropped by 20 to 25 percent due to a curtailment of imports and an increase in
exports during the last third of 1975.
Prospects for 1976
12.       The balance of payments is expected to remain the central problem
in 1976 as well as for the years to come. The current account deficit is ex-
pected to decline somewhat as imports are restrained and there is a recovery
in the level of economic activity in Western Europe. The inflationary momen-
tum will probably be curtailed further through improved investment control,
closer alignment of real income changes with improvements of productivity
and restrictive monetary policy. The real growth rate of GDP is expected to be
constrained to about 4.5 percent in 1976 with a gradual recovery in subsequent
years.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The aggravation of major economic problems during 1974, such as
rapid inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
development objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, more emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's own natural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given the highest priority. It focuses on electric power,
where the generating capacity is likely to fall critically short of the rapidly
rising power requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the
power sector will largely be based on the large unutilized hydropower potential
and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities are ferrous
metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc, copper,
nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production equipment,
basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food processing,
interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and basic con-
struction material.
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and the deepening of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-
intensive investment pattern, associated with longer time-lags between invest-
ment and output. To sustain this development path, both continued high bor-
rowing abroad and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the
possible exception of private savings, interest rates do not play a significant
role in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the income policy
--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise income between
workers' income and accumulation--will have a crucial role.



15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-1980), presently under preparation,
will focus on the implementation of these objectives. For growth, an average
rate of 7 percent per year is proposed as feasible, comparing with a target
growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 percent and an expected realized
growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average planned growth rate
would come to about 3 percent with annual increments exceeding the natural
increase of the labor force by growing margins. This would permit more
vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduction of the number
of temporary migrants abroad, and an increased absorption of the rural under-
employment into the social sector. The economy will continue to be open to
the world market although the composition of foreign trade is expected to
change with a reduced share for raw material, semifinished products and con-
sumer goods on the import side, and an increased share for agricultural pro-
ducts and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers' remittances are not
expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism receipts are expected
to compensate for the expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the less developed regions in the form of loans at concessionary terms for
economic investment and budgetary grants for social development will be con-
tinued and probably will increase as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of
the natural resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in
the less-developed regions, they will, in addition to the transfers, benefit
from the increased emphasis on the development of basic industries and power
which will to a considerable degree be financed through direct financial con-
tributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five Year Plan is being prepared according to the self-
management principle as stipulated by the Constitution of 1974. "Self-
management planning" is perceived as an iterative process of sequential con-
verging consensus-finding. In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to
sectors and activities) and general quantitative targets and constraints
(like growth rates of social product and the volume of savings and investment)
are determined by political consensus of the assemblies of the socio-political
communities (Communes, Republics and Provinces,Federation). Subsequently, the
planning process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and communi-
ties of interest setting out their expectations and targets. The planning pro-
cess then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping stages of hori-
zontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating
gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely interdependent sectors
and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production,
conceptually within an input/output framework), and regional adjustments between
Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical consolidation).
The socio-political communities participate in this process by ensuring obser-
vance of the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by resolving con-
flicts which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The evolving con-
solidated programs of action, which in their totality constitute the opera-
tional portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social contracts" or



- 7 -
"self-management agreements" which are legally binding for the whole Plan
period unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occurring in
the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan, which is currently under
preparation is, thus, expected to differ from the previous Plan in strength-
ening and formalizing the commitments for implementation by enterprises,
banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the present balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines
from COMECON countries and the EC, and efforts are being intensified to open
up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. Due to the size and structure of
external borrowing during 1974 and the years to come, the debt service ratio
is expected to increase from 15.3 in 1974 to 18.2 in 1976. Although the debt
service ratio may continue to increase gradually, it is expected to peak
around 1980 at about 19 percent and decline thereafter. However, taking into
account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the past to
control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of
production and structural improvement of the balance of trade, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
19.       The Bank has made 35 loans totalling about US$1,160 million to
Yugoslavia. Of this amount approximately 50 percent (US$571.4 million) has
been for 13 loans for the transportation sector - seven for highways totalling
US$220 million, four for railways totalling US$248 million, US$108.4 million
for natural gas and oil pipelines, and $44 million for a port project. Bank
lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to
the transportationloans, power (three loans totalling US$135 million), tele-
communications (one loan for US$40 million), three multipurpose projects
totalling US$103 million and US$6 million for a water supply and sewerage
project. Nine loans have also been made for industry and two each for tourism
and agriculture. IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises total-
ling about US$130 million. The Bank disbursed $126 million during FY75, com-
pared with $59.4 million in FY74, and about $140 million is projected for FY76.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       The major objectives of current and future Bank lending to Yugoslavia
are to accelerate development in the less-developed regions of the country; to
promote agricultural development, particularly among the small private farmers



- 8 -
by providing basic infrastructure and credit for the financing of farm develop-
ment, equipment and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms in
major sectors of the economy through improved coordination and the strengthen-
ing of institutions; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external capital
and thus help to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign exchange,
while encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other sources of
medium- and long-term capital. These objectives are basically the same as
those which have guided Bank lending in previous years, but efforts to give
special support to the less-developed regions are being strengthened.
21.       A proposed loan of US$20 million for the Morava Region development
project (water supply, sewerage and water resources planning) has been re-
cently submitted for your consideration. A proposed loan for the Sarajevo
water supply and sewerage project (US$45 million) is being submitted concur-
rently with this loan and a loan of US$50 million for a second industrial
credit project has been negotiated and is expected to be submitted shortly for
consideration. Over the next two years loans envisaged include a second loan
for agricultural credit, two loans for irrigation, and a loan for agricultural
industries, all for the less developed regions. Highway, railway and power
transmission projects during the same period will both assist the less-
developed regions and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy
sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities
to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In addition to substantial assistance given in identifying and pre-
paring projects for Bank financing, the Bank is providing technical assistance
in several areas. A series of regional studies of the four less-developed
regions of Yugoslavia was initiated three years ago and three studies, cover-
ing Kosovo, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, have been completed. The fourth
study, of Montenegro, will be completed soon. This series will contribute to
better assessment of development programs and will assist both the Governments
and the Bank in formulating development strategies for these regions. An energy
sector review was undertaken by the Bank in cooperation with the Federal Govern-
ment to review the energy sector survey which the Federal Government had been
undertaking as well as to review the work being done on energy problems in the
individual Republics with the objective of analyzing the main problems, issues
and policy options for meeting Yugoslavia's future energy needs. A Bank as-
sisted study on the improvement of the financial mechanism has been concluded
and its recommendations have been included in draft legislation for a new
banking law. Bank cooperation in a training program for auditors of the Social
Accounting Service, which audits all enterprises and Government activities,
including Bank financed projects, has progressed satisfactorily and further
training is underway in cooperation with an international accounting firm. As-
sistance from EDI, as well as through Bank operations, has been directed to-
wards the improvement of project evaluation.



- 9 -
23.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant averaging about
US$200 million annually during the period FY74-76. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital
inflow in convertible currencies. The outstanding debt to the Bank is ex-
pected to gradually decline from its current level of less than 10 percent of
Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.0 percent in 1974 and is projected to increase to
about 6 percent in 1980.
PART III - AIR POLLUTION IN SARAJEVO
24.       Sarajevo is the capital city and economic center of the Republic
of Bosnia-Herzegovina, one of the less developed Republics of Yugoslavia.
Large-scale migration from surrounding underdeveloped areas tripled its pop-
ulation to over 300,000 between 1945 and 1975 and it is expected to grow to
410,000 by 1985. The most densely populated part of the city lies along the
Miljacka River in an area cradled by the steep slopes of surrounding mountains.
Because of its rapid growth and special geographic and climatic conditions,
Sarajevo has developed severe air and water pollution problems which threaten
the health of its population. The city is attempting to solve both of these
problems through coordinated water supply and sewerage and air pollution con-
trol projects. The Bank is assisting with both projects and my Report and Re-
commendation to you on a proposed loan for the Sarajevo Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Report No. P-1838-YU dated May 12, 1976) is being submitted
simultaneously with this one.
Air Pollution
25.       Sarajevo has the most severe air pollution problem in Yugoslavia
and, with regard to the principal pollutant, sulfur dioxide, one of the most
severe problems for a city of its size in the world. The pollution problem,
which becomes particularly acute during the long, severe winter, results from
the city's unique topographic and climatic conditions, coupled with the use
of heating fuels (mostly high sulfur lignite and coal) that upon combustion
emit large amounts of sulfur oxides and particulate matter.
26.       The mountain-valley configuration of the terrain inhibits air flow
in and over the city, and such winds as do prevail are very light, possessing
no significant ventilating characteristics. Temperature inversions (increase
of temperature of the air with increasing altitude) during the winter months
are frequent and often of long duration. As a result, large quantities of air
pollutants are trapped under the inversion "lid" where their concentrations
build up to alarming proportions. When the ambient air temperature drops well
below freezing, the emission of pollutants from heating units rises steeply.
When such conditions are combined with an inversion, the pollutants trapped
in and over the city increase considerably.



- 10 -
27.       The concentrations of pollutants measured in Sarajevo regularly ex-
ceed generally recognized standard maximum levels, above which they can have
adverse health effects. A 24 hour average level exceeding 300 micrograms per
cubic meter of air (ug/m3) of sulfur dioxide occurring for 3 to 4 days is
generally considered by most international authorities to have adverse health
effects. In Sarajevo the average winter concentration in the core city is 600
ug/m3, and approximately 50 percent of the entire population of the metro-
politan area is regularly exposed to concentrations above 200 ug/m3 during the
late fall-winter-early spring months. The Yugoslav air quality standard which
the City of Sarajevo has adopted is 150 ug/m3 for a 24 hour average not to be
exceeded more than once a year. This falls within the middle level of the 24
hour average standards of other countries which range from 30-60 ug/m3 for
Canada to 150 ug/m3 for the Federal Republic of Germany and 250 ug/m3 for
Sweden and Romania. The U.S. Federal standard, which is estalished on a some-
what more complex set of criteria, permits a maximum once a year 24 hour aver-
age level of 365 ug/m3, but most states in the U.S. have stipulated various
standards which are comparable to international standards for 24 hour averages,
for example, California (105 ug/m3) and New York (100-150 ug/m3).
28.       Epidemiological studies conducted throughout the world have shown
that there is a demonstrable effect of sulfur oxides in the ambient atmos-
phere on the health of the exposed population, and the degree of that effect
is related to the degree and duration of pollution. Episodes of acute eleva-
tion of sulfur oxides and particulates have been associated with increases in
morbidity and mortality. The London smog of 1952 ranks as the worst air pollu-
tion disaster in medical history, in which 4000 died and an undetermined number
suffered health effects; however, in Sarajevo, concentrations of sulfur oxides
and particulates often exceed those measured in the London smog in 1952. The
New York air pollution disaster of 1953 occurred when a temperature inversion
produced high concentrations of air pollutants, particularly oxides of sulfur,
for 10 days. Yet the concentration of sulfur dioxide measured at the peak of
that 10-day period was less than the average for Sarajevo, where inversions
have been known to last for longer periods.
29.       Medical authorities in Sarajevo have indicated that deaths among the
population rise significantly during periods when air pollution reaches high
levels. High weekly death rates show a direct correlation with the weeks
having the highest average concentration of sulfur dioxide and soot (particu-
lates) in the air. The reports of hospitals in Sarajevo evidence increased
frequency of respiratory symptoms and pulmonary complications, along with a
similar increase for cardiovascular problems, during periods of heavy pollu-
tion. Chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, pneumonitis, pneumonia, asthma, and
emphysema are prevalent in the population due to the repeated exposure to
heavy concentrations of pollutants. Children are frequently taken out of the
city during periods of severe pollution.
30.       The citizens of Sarajevo assign a high priority to the elimination
of this damage to their health which, in addition, would reduce their economic
losses by lowering medical costs and absenteeism. City officials have public-
ly committed themselves to a program of air pollution abatement by creating



- 11 -
a Commission on Environment, consisting of community leaders and technical ex-
perts, to advise the City Assembly on pollution and related matters. In addi-
tion, a department of the city government monitors air pollution levels. In
June 1972 the City Assembly passed a resolution limiting the use of highly
polluting fuels in the most heavily polluted parts of the city. Although this
represents a beginning, it is clear that there will not be an adequate solu-
tion to the problem until clean burning fuel is available at reasonable prices
for the whole city.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The nature and extent of Sarajevo s air pollution problems, as well
as the severe water supply and water pollution problems, were first brought to
the Bank's attention by the Sarajevo authorities in mid-1972, followed by a
formal request in early 1973 from the Federal Government for assistance in fi-
nancing a program to reduce air and water pollution in Sarajevo. Consultants
retained by Yugoslav authorities in 1973 investigated the air pollution prob-
lems and suggested alternative,solutions. Studies of the feabible alternatives
for resolving the air pollution problem identified the introduction of natural
gas for heating fuel as the most economic solution which would meet emission
reduction standards. Bank missions to assist with project preparation began
in January 1973. Appraisals of both the water supply and sewerage project and
the air pollution control project were substantially completed in December
1974. Negotiations were held in July and August, 1975 in Washington. The
Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Dane Maljkovic, President of the Sarajevo
City Assembly. Subsequent to negotiations, delays were experienced in ensur-
ing the financing and gas supplies for the air pollution control project.
These issues were resolved in March 1976, and the appraisal was updated and
revised in March 1976.
Project Description
32.       The proposed project would provide the facilities needed for con-
verting to gas consumption about 300 central-heating plants and about 10,000
households, and thus abating air pollution in the city. The proposed loan
and project are summarized in Annex III and described in detail in the report
entitled "Appraisal of Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project: Report No.
1168-YU'and dated May 11, 1976 which is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The project would include:
(i) the construction of a 135-kilometre gas transmission line from
Batajnica to Zvornik branching from the Naftagas distribution
system financed under Loan No. 916-YU for the Naftagas Pipeline
Project;
(ii) a 130-kilometre gas transmission line from Zvornik to Sarajevo;
(iii) a 20-kilometre natural gas distribution ring around Sarajevo;
(iv) 160 kilometres of service lines;



- 12 -
(v) about 50 pressure-regulating stations and associated control
systems;
(vi) conversion of about 300 central heating plants and installa-
tion of about 10,000 house connections; and
(vii) related consultant services and technical assistance to SGE
for staff training and carrying out of a tariff study.
Supply of Gas
33.       The NGU transmission system (Naftagas Pipeline Project) being con-
structed under a previous Bank loan (Loan No. 916-YU of June 25, 1973) will
provide for transmission of imported gas from the Hungarian border as well as
domestic gas from gas fields in Vojvodina to consumption centers in Vojvodina,
Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. The project originally included a branch line
from Batajnica (near Belgrade) to Loznica (near the Serbian border with Bosnia-
Herzegovina). As explained in my Memorandum entitled "Proposed Amendments to
Loan No. 916-YU" which has been distributed simultaneously with this report,
the sharp escalation in costs, combined with the reassessment of policy on
the use of natural gas, has led to a rephasing of the project. Under the new
arrangements proposed in the Memorandum it is expected that the main trans-
mission network (which would comprise Phase I of the revised NGU program)
would be constructed utilizing the funds provided under Loan No. 916-YU. The
branch line from Batajnica through Loznica to Zvornik (just inside the Bosnia-
Herzegovina border), which is essential for supplying the gas required by the
City of Sarajevo, would comprise Phase II of the NGU investment program and
US$11 million of its foreign exchange costs would be financed by a portion of
the proposed loan. The ratification of the amendment to Loan 916-YU and as-
sociated legal documents would be a condition of effectiveness for the pro-
posed loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 8.01 (h), (i), and (k)).
34.       Arrangements for the supply of gas to the City of Sarajevo have
been made by SGE with Energoinvest, a major, diversified Yugoslav enterprise
with headquarters in Sarajevo. Energoinvest has contracted with NGU for the
supply of up to 320 million m3 of gas annually for its aluminum plant in
Zvornik. SGE and Energoinvest, in turn, have signed a protocol whereby the
aluminum plant would use the gas on an interruptible basis and Energoinvest
would make up to 30 million m3 of gas per month available to the city from
its NGU supply. This volume would meet the city's needs except for a short
period in January each year. NGU has agreed to enter into a long-term agree-
ment with Energoinvest to provide adequate supplies of natural gas (Loan
Agreement, Recital R). The ratification of the execution of this agreement,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of ef-
fectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 8.01 (f)). Energoinvest would, in turn,
sign a contract with SGE to provide all the gas needed by the city (Loan
Agreement, Recital T) and the execution of this contract, in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan



- 13 -
Agreement, Section 8.01 (e)). Both of these contracts would cover a period of
15 years beginning in 1978 and would set the price for gas at prevailing rates
(plus an adjustment to compensate Energoinvest for accepting an interruptible
supply in the case of the contract between Energoinvest and SGE). NGU and the
Federal Government have given assurances that agreements for adequate imports
of natural gas, both for the short- and long-terms, will be completed by
December 31, 1976 at the latest. Submission of evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that such agreements have been concluded is a condition of effectiveness
for this loan (Loan Agreement, Section 8.01 (m)).
Project Execution
35.       NGU would construct the transmission line from Batajnica to Zvornik
and SGE would construct the remainder of the transmisssion line and the dis-
tribution system, and convert heating plants. SGE is a new Organization of
Associated Labor under the principle of workers' self-management of socially
owned assets, established by the city to construct and operate the gas trans-
mission, distribution and heating system. When the system is operational, SGE
will be responsible for operation of the central heating furnaces which will
be controlled from a central control station. Maintenance of the hot water
systems within the buildings will be the responsibility of the Sarajevo Hous-
ing Enterprise and the building occupants. Because SGE is a new organization
it will require extensive help in organization and initial operations. As
conditions of loan effectiveness, SGE would hire consultants to assist with
preparing a staffing plan (it has already hired a part of its staff including
a director, two experienced engineers and an accountant), writing job specifi-
cations, training, and initial operations. SGE is a public service enterprise
and the City Assembly therefore has approval authority over certain aspects
of its decisions; namely, SGE's working statutes, work program, functional or
organizational changes, appointment of manager, and tariff rates.
36.       NGU is an autonomous Organization of Associated Labor within the
Naftagas Enterprise. It consists of several Basic Organizations of Associated
Labor, or operating units, among which the Investment Center is responsible
for the preparation, execution and supervision of all capital investments,
including the Project. Most of the delays experienced in carrying out the
Naftagas Pipeline Project (Loan No. 916-YU) have-resulted from a serious cost
overrun and from complex administrative and institutional problems following
the reorganization of Naftagas in 1973/74. NGU recognizes the need for ad-
ditional assistance to carry out its construction program and has informed
the Bank that it plans to obtain additional assistance from consultants to
buttress its technical management capabilities.
37.       SGE has retained consultants to help prepare the final design and
tender documents and supervise construction. NGU, with consultant's assist-
ance, has prepared detailed designs for the Batajnica-Zvornik transmission
line, and would continue to employ consultants for assistance with supervision
of construction and initial operations. SGE and NGU would coordinate the con-
struction of the two elements of the transmission line (Loan Agreement, Section



- 14 -
3.06) and possibly use one contractor. NGU would construct the Batajnica-
Zvornik gas line between mid-1977 and end 1978. SGE would construct the
Zvornik-Sarajevo gas line during the same period and the city gas distribu-
tion system between 1977 and 1980. Natural gas is expected to be distributed
to about 1/3 of the city's central heating plants in the winter of 1978/79.
Total conversion to natural gas would be accomplished by end 1980.
Coordination in the City
38.       Because the air pollution control and water supply and sewerage
projects are being pursued simultaneously by separate entities, the City As-
sembly would coordinate project implementation and the Bank would sign a Proj-
ect Coordination Agreement with the Assembly (Project Coordination Agreement).
Construction coordination is particularly important to ensure that there is a
minimum disruption to normal city life and that both projects are completed
on schedule. The Institute for the Construction of the City, a special unit
of the city government responsible for the physical development of the urban
area, would be the cocrdinatirgagent on behalf of the City Assembly (Project
Coordination Agreement, Section 2.01).
39.       In addition to its construction coordinating role, the City As-
sembly would also ensure that the clean air regulations established in 1972
(which have not been strictly enforced because adequate supplies of clean
fuel have not been available) would be fully implemented when gas is avail-
able, and would require that households and commercial establishments pre-
sently using polluting fuels would convert promptly to natural gas. The city
government has undertaken to provide or make arrangements for providing local
financing required by householders to convert to gas appliances (Project Coor-
dination Agreement, Sections 2.05 and 3.01; Loan Agreement, Recital U).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
40.       The total estimated cost of the project (excluding interest during
construction) is US$74.9 million (US$22.4 for the transmission line from
Batajnica to Zvornik and US$52.5 for the remainder of the project). The esti-
mate includes duties and taxes (about 5 percent of project costs) and an al-
lowance of about 27 percent for physical and price contingencies. The esti-
mated foreign exchange component is US$37.4 million. Details of the estimate
are shown in Annex III.
41.       Of the proposed Bank loan of US$38 million, US$11 million would be
lent to NGU for the Batajnica-Zvornik line and US$27 million would be lent to
SGE for the remainder of the project. The loan would finance 46 percent of
project costs plus interest during construction on the Bank loan (US$8.1 mil-
lion) and about 84 percent of foreign exchange requirements (estimated for-
eign exchange costs plus interest during construction on the Bank loan).



- 15 -
42.       In addition to its project costs (US$52.5 million) and interest
during construction (US$8.9 million), SCE would require financing for contri-
butions and loans to NGU (US$4.3 million), or a total of US$65.7 million,
during the construction period. In addition to the Bank loan, funds would be
provided from internal cash generation (11 percent), local borrowings (35 per-
cent) and capital contributions from Sarajevo (13 percent). The City Assembly
has also agreed that it would provide additional funds to meet any cost over-
runs on that portion of the project to be carried out by SGE (Project Coordi-
nation Agreement, Section 2.02 and Loan Agreement, Section 6.09).
43.       In addition to its project costs of US$22.4 million for the
Batajnica-Zvornik gas line, NGU would require interest during construction of
US$2 million, making a total of US$24.4 million required during the construc-
tion period (foreign exchange requirements of US$13 million). In addition to
the Bank loan, funds would be provided from internal cash generation (4 per-
cent), local borrowing from Beogradska Banka (21 percent) and grants from
the Governments of Serbia, Vojvodina and the City Assembly (30 percent).
Beogradska Banka would finance cost overruns, if any, under the provisions of
the Administration and Financing Agreement under Loan 916-YU and a supple-
mental Beogradska Bank loan agreement on that portion of the project to be
carried out by NGU (Loan Agreement, Section 8.01 (g) and (h)).
Financial Performance
44.       SGE.   The financial forecast for SGE is based on a purchase price
of gas of Din 1.6 per m3 (projected NGU price for 1977), increased by 10 per-
cent to compensate Energoinvest for accepting an interruptible supply. The
purchase of gas will be about 90 percent of SGE's operating costs, and to
protect its financial stability SGE has agreed that in the event of an in-
crease in the purchase price of gas they would take immediate steps to re-
flect such increases in their tariffs for the sale of gas (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.06). The City Assembly has agreed to support such increases (Proj-
ect Coordination Agreement, Section 2.03(b)). In the initial years, before
all heating plants are converted and the gas transmission and distribution
system operates at full capacity, the forecast rate of return on average net
fixed assets would be low (4 percent in 1979/80) but by 1984, the rate of re-
turn is projected to rise to about 17 percent. To ensure its contribution to
the project and a sound financial future, SGE has agreed to take steps to
provide from internal sources during 1979 and 1980 not less than 11 percent
of its total capital expenditure from 1976 to 1980; and, beginning in 1981 to
take steps to provide each year funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 35 percent of the average capital expenditure during each consecu-
tive three year period comprising one actual and two forecast years (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.04). The City Assembly has agreed that it would support
tariff levels to achieve this target (Project Coordination Agreement, Sec-
tion 2.03(b)).



- 16 -
45.       Because SGE is a new enterprise, with a substantial part of its
capital provided by loans, the debt equity ratio would be high in the early
years (82:18 in 1980) and improve thereafter (60:40 in 1985). SGE has agreed
to manage its debt by not contracting additional loans, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, unless its net cash generation before depreciation and
interest exceeds 1.5 times its debt service in any future year, including
the debt to be contracted (Loan Agreement, Section 6.05).
46.       NGU.  Over the past two years, NGU's financial performance has been
satisfactory with NGU earning a rate of return on gross fixed assets of over
20 percent. NGU has been successful in adjusting its tariffs to reflect higher
cost and changes in the relative price of imported oil and gas. NGU has agreed
to continue to observe the financial requirements established under Loan 916-YU
(Loan Agreement, Sections 5.01 and 6.10); namely, (a) to establish and maintain
such tariffs as will result in a minimum financial rate of return of 10 percent
on average gross fixed assets in use, (b) to maintain a depreciation policy
acceptable to the Bank, (c) to enable the Bank to review at intervals of no
less than one year NGU's investment program, (d) not to undertake any further
investment which in the Bank's judgment would adversely affect the execution
of this project or the financial position of NGU, and (e) not to incur any
long-term debts if thereby debt service coverage would be less than 1.5 times.
Procurement and Disbursements
47.       Materials and equipment contracts and civil works contracts, except
as noted below, would be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement". For equipment
and supply contracts, qualified domestic manufacturers would be given a mar-
gin of preference of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever is the less.
Materials and equipment, and civil works contracts for the distribution and
conversion components estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and US$500,000,
respectively, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with the procedures of the Federal Government which are
satisfactory. Most equipment supply and civil works contracts for the distri-
bution network are expected to be won by Yugoslav enterprises. Contracts for
the supply of the natural gas transmission and compression facilities are ex-
pected to be awarded to foreign firms. Local contractors are competent to
construct the transmission line and are likely to bid for this work. However,
due to the heavy pipeline program in Yugoslavia, the most likely outcome is
that the construction contract will be awarded to a joint venture of local and
foreign firms.
48.       Expenditure by the City Assembly and SGE for preparation of feas-
ibility studies and final design amounting to about US$0.4 million is ex-
pected to be incurred prior to loan signature. Retroactive Bank financing
Df such expenditures from June 1974 of not more than US$0.3 million is recom-
nended (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4).



- 17 -
49.        The loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  Equipment and Materials          -    100 percent of the c.i.f. cost
of directly imported equipment,
materials and pipe and 75 per-
cent of the total cost of lo-
cally supplied imported equip-
ment, materials and pipe.
(b)  Civil Works                      -    25 percent of the cost of con-
struction and installation
contracts.
(c)  Engineering Services             -    75 percent of the cost of con-
sulting services and training
related to the portion of the
Project to be carried out by
SGE.
(d)  Interest during Construction     -    100 percent of the interest dur-
ing construction on the portion
of the Bank loan to SGE.
Disbursements would begin in early 1977 and be completed in June 1980 for SGE
and June 1979 for NGU.
Audit
50.        SGE's and NGU's accounts would be audited by the Social Ac:counting
Service (SAS) (Loan Agreement, Section 6.02). With Bank encouragement, the
SAS started a program in January 1974 under which its staff are being trained
by foreign consultants in auditing methods consistent with modern auditing
standards. The program is currently in its second phase in which additional
SAS staff are being trained, under the consultants' guidance, by those who
participated in the first phase. SGE and NGU gave the Bank informal assur-
ances that the group of specially trained auditors would be asked to conduct
their audits beginning with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 1976.
In the event the special group cannot be assigned to these audits, SGE and NGU
would engage other auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Justification
51.       The pollution of air in Sarajevo threatens the health and well-being
of its population. Without corrective action this threat would increase as
the population grows. The introduction of natural gas as the primary heating
fuel would reduce air pollution below the levels which threaten health. The
average number of days per year in the winter period in which the City's air
quality standard would be exceeded would drop from about 70 to about 6.



- 18 -
52.       The result would be a healthier population which would require less
medical care; would have lower job and school absentee rates; and, would be
more productive on the job. In addition the general improvement in the City's
environment would enhance property values, reduce building maintenance costs,
and expand the potential for recreational facilities. Sarajevo would become
a better place in which to live and work.
53.       Studies have shown that the most economic means of reducing air
pollution to generally recognized acceptable levels (see paragraph 27) in
Sarajevo would be to introduce natural or manufactured gas as heating fuel.
Cost comparisons of providing natural or manufactured gas showed that natural
gas would be the least cost alternative. The cost of heating houses with
natural gas would be about 11 percent higher than with the fuels now used, but
about 20 percent lower than the projected costs of using the second best low-
polluting fuels (coke, light oil, etc.). Using the second best fuels would
not reduce pollution to acceptable levels. The use of gas for heat would thus
be the least expensive way for Sarajevo to achieve air quality which would not
be a hazard to the health of its citizens.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement   between the Bank and Preduzece za
Transport i Distribuciju Gasa Sarajevo and "Naftagas" Kombinat Naftne
Industrije "Gas" Radna Organizacija Transporta Prerade Primene i Prometa Gasa
sa solidarnom odgovornoscu Novi Sad; the draft Project Coordination Agreement
between the Bank and the City of Sarajevo; the draft Guarantee Agreement be-
tween the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank; the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement; and, the text of a draft resolution approving the above loan,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Provisions of the agreements of special interest were noted in
paragraphs 33 through 50. Special conditions of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 8.01) are:
1.   The execution and delivery of the Project Coordination
Agreement on behalf of the City Assembly of Sarajevo have
been duly ratified;
2.   All local financing arrangements have been completed and are
in full force and effect;
3.   The amending agreement to Loan No. 916-YU has been duly ratified;
4.   The Administration and Financing Agreement under Loan 916-YU has
been amended to take account of this Loan and the amending agree-
ment to Loan 916-YU and such amendment has been duly ratified;
5.   SGE has employed management consultants;



- 19 -
6.   SGE statutes have been adopted in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Bank;
7.   The long term contracts on gas deliveries between NGU and
Energoinvest and between Energoinvest and SCE have been
executed and ratified;
8.   NGU and the Naftagas Production Unit have amended the domestic
gas supply contract in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and
9.   The Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the
Bank of the conclusion of agreements, or of other arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the import into
Yugoslavia of, and for the sale and the delivery to NGU of,
not less than 35,000,000,000 Nm3 of natural gas during the
period of 1975 through 1992 at the prevailing prices.
56.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1976






ANNEX I
TABLE 3*                                       Page 1 of h Pages
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO ARfA (THOU tN2)                -    -                             -------     
-- ------- -                                 - YUGOSLAVIA                      REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      255.8                                      MOST RECENT
AthG.       144.~3                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE         RtMANIA, REP    SPAIN       GERMANY, FED. REP *-
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS)                    360.0       740.0     1010.0               il.a. /a  1260.0     4210.0
POPULATION Al4 VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-VR, MILLIONI           18.4        20.4       21.0               20.3       33.6        60.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       72.0        80.0       82.0               85.0       66.0       240.0
PER SQUARE KM. AG0IC.  LANC             ..145.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        24.0        17.8       18.0               21.1       19.6        13.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE PEP THOUSAND        10.0         8.9        8.7                9.5        8.5        12.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOUI        88.0        55.5       43.3               49.4       27.9        23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYRS)       62.0        67.0a     68.0               68.6        71.0       70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.3        1.3        1.3                0.9         1.4        1.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 4S)
TOTAL                                  1.2        1.1        1.0                1.0        1.1         1.0
URBAN                                 6.0         4.6         ..                3.4        1.9         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (5 OF TOTAL)           27.2       38.7       39.0               41.0       59.1        9214
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       31.0        26.9       26.9               25.9       27.d        23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       63.0        65.1       65.1               65.5       62.5        63.o
65 YEARS AND OVER                     6.0         8.0        8.0                8.6        9.7        13.2
AGE DEPFNDENCY RATIO                    0.6         0.5        0.5                0.5        0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         ..        0.9                O.7T       1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..          ..         ..
USERS IS OF MAPRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         8300.0          ..     8900.0             9900.0    11900.0     26500.0
LABOR FURCE IN AGRICULTURE IZ)         57.0          ..       45.0               49.0       24.8         8.9
UNEMPLOYED IY OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0 /a      ..        3.3/ ./.                      2.0 /a      0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCCME PECOU BY-
HIGHEST  5 OJRF DtSEiLD              16.4 /b    15.1         ,,                6.3 /b
HIGHEST 20Y OF HOUVSHOLDS            41.5 7-     41.4
LnwSFT 20T OF   H0VSZtODS              6.9 7      6 .6        .-               24.3 /c
LOWEST 40S OF   HOuSEHOLDS                 -     U.           ..                 .. La 
OISTRIBUTION Of LAND CWNERSHIP
I OWNED B8 TOP 10 OF OWItNS              ..       IS.1 /b
Y OWNED BY SMALLEST 10 OWNERS            ..       84.9T        ..
HEALTH AND NUTPITION
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN             1400.0 /a   1010.0      900.0              680.0      750.0 Lb    580.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         500.0 IXc 410.0        380.0              200.0     1430.0       350.0
POPULATION PER HnSPITAL dEn            190.0 L.   180.0      170.0/b            120.0      220.0        90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES IY OF REIUIREMENTSI       115.0       124.0      125.0              118.0      107.0       121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              91.0        92.0       94.0               92.0        81.0       88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.0        29.0         ..               28.0        40.0       56.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.7 /a     2.5        2.5                3.0         0.9        0.9
EDUCATION
AOJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        96.0       94.0       96.0              112.0       131.0      117.0 /a
SECCNOARY SCHOOL                     34.0        45.0       48.0               46.0        57.0       455.0 7
YFARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVFLI             12.0        12.0       12.0               14.0        13.0       15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IS OF SECONOARY)                     72.0        72.0       74 .0              58.0 /d    20.0        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE IY)                 77.0       85.0         ..               99.0        94.0       99.0
HOUSING
PFRSCNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               1.7         L, 1.3                       1.3 /e                 0.7/b
OCCUPIEO DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPEO WATER (8)                        ..          ..       66.0 S             88.0 Lf       ..        0.3/c
ACCFSS TO ELECTRICITY
IS OF ALL DWELLINGS)                55.           ..       88.0               49.0 /e      .,       100.0
RUIRAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELFCTRICITY I4)                   36.0          ..       80.0               217.u /e
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU PCP)          84.0      163.0       176.0              152.0      214.0       31d.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       35.0        54.0                 ..       70.0      223.0
ELECTQTCITY (KwH/YR PER CAP)           529.0     1288.0      1570.0            1615.0      1627.0     4129.0
NEwSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.3        4.3         3.5                2.6        5.8        17.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



%pag 2 of I. pages
Unolese otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961. for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recat Eatimate between
1971 and 1973.
-e Selection of ?ederal Republic of Owsay as an objective country is based on the close economic ties maintained by the two countries, as well as on
the fact that the greater part of Yugoa,Wha a a.rood -on ilnion workers temporarily abroad haf found employment In the Eo4yel MpybU.c of
YUOCU&UA               &   lg i9it j  4  1963;  /c  Including midwives and midwifery, sad mur4ftg mauilexise.
UL  /   1966-67;    A   1griculture land held by Social Sector [oclatiet;     Ls. Aricevture 2m     1* bW privaet    emIl-
holders.
JOT NNWr PhflMTTs i          Ratio of regietared job seekers to active population;    /b  Ooversiant hospitals only;     aj Water
piped inside.
ROMLNIA          197     /a  The calculation of these, figuree ie under diacuBsion; based on information supplied by the Bmanien Oveonment, and
using a currency conversion rate of 20 Lei to the US$, the par capita GNP would emsunt to $590 for 1973, end the
pre,liz.macy estimate for 19714 would be *910. These figures are, however, not str-ictly comparable with those for
other reference countries, as presented here;     Z   Percent of eslaried workers oeaning more them 2, 500 [ei;
/c  percent of salaried workers oarnsing lass then 1,100 Isi;    /d   Nful-tins education onlyl    11  1966;   ZL   Piped
water Inside only; ~&     RAtio of population under 15 and 657end -oar to total labor force.
SPAIN                  1970    /a  Registered unemployed;    /b  Ragiotered, not all practicing in the csu,,,try.
aERX"Z   FED. R  1970L   /   Includes the relevant date relating to Berlln for which saparate date have not been supplied;       &   Total, urb-an nd
'rurl; /c Inside only.
R12, May 3, 1976
XFINITIONS OP SOCIAL DIDUICATORS
toed Area (thou ken                                                                    Po:ul,atie  mer sure  gPerso   - Population divided by nmb~er of precti-
Tot.l1   Total serf.. -c ca  copri.ing lond ore soed inland waters,                      chu  male   d feta graduate numese, 'trahead" or c.ertified       eawes.,
Asric.  M-Mot recn.tinatete of ag     ulualea       woed tenpor.rily or pe-             aod auxIliary personnel with training or experieet.
momently for crops,   pactoree, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.            Ponain      e   oeia      a  - Population divided by mouber of heepital
bade svi    l   inpbIc. end private general sod apecialiced heepitat
GNP por ..pit. (US$) - GNP percapit. .orima tee at market prices, calcul.ted             end rehabilitation centers; excldes nursing been. and eat.bIlaheenta
by   -  cocnversion method as World Book Atl.. (1972-74 basis).                        for. utodia1 and preve-tive care.
Per caPita supply of calorieso (7. of reg.irmoota) - Conputed from
P.oulation and vital statistics                                                          energy equivalent of out foed supplies available, In country per
population (,id-vr. m1ILlion  - A. of Jo1y first,   if noct -vilable, average            capit. per day; available eupplie conprise domeetto production,
of twe end-year estimates,                                                             imports lees experts, end changes in stock, net supplies excIlud
.soial feed, sceda, quantities maed in food processing and louses On
Population de...ity - per square ho - Mid-year population per oquere kilo-               distribution, requirnata    were setinated by PAO based on physic-
meter (100 hectares) of total area,                                                    logical needs for normsal activity aud health considering environ-
Population density - per scorc ho of asri., lend - Computed as shove for                 netal temperature, body weights, age and sex distributicons of
.gricultur.1 land only.                                                                population, end allwing 107. for vests at becashold level.
Per cacits supply of proti    oaaapr day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                         capita,net eupply of food  peray     ot supply of food is defined as
Codsbrth rt    a   thouand - Annual live birth. per thoucand of mid-yearshr,rqisetfrsl                              Ontio      sabsed      ytEAR      nei
popultio, usull      five-year aver-agee ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for             Research Services, provide for a minivasee allowance of 60 gr-   of
developing coutrises,                                                                  total proteln per day, end 20 grome of animal and pulse pretein, of
Crude des rate.ou, thousand - Annual deathe per thousand of nid-yasr                     which 10 gr-    should be onimal protein, these etandrde are lowr
pplto;usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for               then these of 75 gracs of total protein and 23 gren    of animal
developing countries,                                                                  protein ase an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third
Infant gorealitv, rate (thou) - Annual deatho of infanto under one year of ege           world Food  -Suvy.
pot thonsand live birth..                                                            Per capita protein supply iro  aima a nd Pwlss - Protein supply of food
life_exoectncy at birth (Yre) - Average nonber of yearo of life -onaining                derived iron animals and pulse   in graoss per day.
or birth, usuolly five-ye-   averages coding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                    ra, Vte (thou  a en- 1-4 - Annual deaths par thousand in age group
developing ..ountries.                                                                 1   years, to cld-n in this age group; suggested as an indicator
Grces reProduction rote - Average number of live daughters a wonen will beer             of malnutrition.
in her n.orml reproductive period if cbs soperinccc pres-et age-specifi
fertility r-tee; ....oly five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 end 1975               Ai'
for developing   mctrrians                                                           Adnrdnr87e aig piayshool - Enrollment of all ages.a
ppation Lnqtb pt(7) - tetal -~ Conpoond a.-ueI growth rates of mld-yeor               prerentage of primar   scol-g     ppltion; includes children aged
top  Oato         _&~ -6,16-0   n   90t     oercn        er                          -11 y.aro but adjosted for different lengthe of primary education.
population groth rate C7. - orban - Computed like growth rote of total                   for coontries with universal education, enrollment may snored 1007.
population , different definitions of -rban arose may affect cnparability              since  omm pupils ar ebles or chore the official school ag.
of da ta mang countrien.                                                             Adutwtd se,r.slmant rati   - secondary school - Canputed as above;
Urbantpdopulaition I2o    totl  -  ni   fubnt        oa    ouain         f-secondary education requires at least four years of approved primary
rentdefiitio,  r urban areas may affsect conparability of date among              inatruction; proridee general, voc.tion.1 or teac.her training
countries.                                                                             instructions. for pupils of 12 tc 17 yearo of age, correspondence
Age smtrucur  (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 yeas"),              courses are generally excluded.
and  etird (6  yers ad ovr) e  pecentges  f ni-yer poulaton.Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) -Ttlyano
Ag  eed vratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 6) end over to th-ae           schooling; at secondary lovel, vocational instruction my he par-
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                 tially or conpletely cacluded.
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of populstion onder 13 and 65 and over to            Vocotional enrollment (7. of secondary) - Vocational institutions
.th  labo  forei age group of1-64 years.                                               include technica1, indus trial or other programs, which operate inde-
Fonl    lnia-acetr           cnltive. thou) - Cum,uletive number of                      pendently or as deperem-nts of secondary institutions.
acce ptors of birth-control devices onder auspices of national finily plon-          Adult literacy rate (7. - Literate adul ts ( bbe to read and writ.) an
ning Programn since ince.ption.                                                        percentage of total edult population aged 15 yearn and over.
Famil clcig-uoa              fmrid w~)- Percntage            of married
lyn of49 cid-ern       ag(144y        ewhuseebirthm-cotrol devices to               Hosuingi
all married ucoe, in ese   ege group.                                                Persons pour mo    (average) - Average, unber of pereono per ruom in
Occupied cnetoa        dwellings in urban aream, dwellings exclude
fjsp "y et                                                                              non-permaent etutr          wad -eoccupied parts..
Ttllbrfotce (thoneed) - gEcononic-lly active persons, including armd             Ocuiddwlig         without piped water (7.) - Occupied cnsventiona1
forceseand unceployed bt excluding housewives, students, etc.; defitoO-                dwellings in urban and rural aroea  without ieside or outside piped
Ltiono in variou   countries are not conparable.                                        water facilitien as percen.tage of all occupied dwellings.
Lbor force in agri.ulturS_ (7. - Agricultural labor force fin farming,                Ac...s to electricity (7. of all deellisgo) - Conventional dwellings
frsr,hunting cod fi.hing)o    perceotege of total labor force,                    with electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings
Oneoploved (7 . of lbo fo-e) - Unoployed oro usually defined as persons-                 in urban and rural area..
who are abla and willing to tobe aIJob, out of a Job on a given day,                 Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7.) - Conputed a.shaove for
re- ined Oct of a Job, and neehkiog work for a specified ninix,oo period               rural dwelliogo only.
not enceeding one week, nay not be c-onpaable between countries due to
dif ferent definitions of unnployod and source of data, e.g. , employment            Consumption
office etotiotico, samPle surveys, conpolsory unooploynet insuranc.e.               Ra4dio receivers (pe.rftho c      - All types of receivers for radio
broadCasts to geea     pbi    per thousand of population; excludes
1ncone distribution - Percentage of private inense (hetb in eueh and bind)               onliren...d recoivoro in countries and in yearo when regiscr-tion of
received by richest 5%, richest 202, poorest 207., and Poorest 407. of                 radio onto woo in effect; data for recent years may not be conpar-
households,                                                                            able nitee nest counstries aboliehed licensing.
Passentger ca.re (per thou 000) - Passen-ger cars conprise ester cars
Distrihution of land ownership - percen.tages of land owned by ueulthiat                 setng lone than eight pernon.; emoleden abhulencen, hearse.soed
107. and poorest lit of lood owners.                                                   military vehicles.
Electricity (kuh/yr per cop) - Annual consumption of industrial, ton-
Health and Nutrition                                                                     mercia1, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per
Pop7lation per physician - Population divided by nonber of practicing                    capita, gen..relly based on production data, without allowance for
physicians qualified fron a medical school or university level,                        loss.es In grid. but allowing for imports and enports of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per ten) - Per copit.a snseS conscumption in kilogram
setinated frmt dosestic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
P.g. 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(A,ou,t. in Millio- US Dollars)
3/                        Astral            1/     Prot-cted
NATIONAL ACCOUTS-                      1972     1973    1974     19752/   1976               1965-72      1972-75      1973-76     1972     1974     1976
Constant 1974 Pric. s. d ExchanRe Rateof S1-17.0 Din.           AveraRe A--al Grovth Rater          A. Perce.t of CDY
Gross Doeestic Product                21,638   22,720   24,765  25,887   27,033                5.6         6.2           6.0        97.8   100.0    100.6
Gains froe Teres of Trade (+)           +468     +681      -      -175     -150                                                      2.2      _       0.6
Gross Oo,sOstIo Inoecss               22,106   23,401   24,765  25,712   26,864                5.5         5.2           4.7       100.0   l00.0    100.0
Ieports (incl. OFS)                    6,588   7,600    8,312    8,036    8,216               12.6         6.9           2.6       29.7     33.6     30.6
EfoOrt, (lnol. UFS)                    5.437    5,788   5.694    5.678    6.187                8.8         1.5           2.3       24.5     23.0     23.0
Rcsource GOp                           1,151    1,812   2,618    2,358    2,029
GoCu-ptloo Expenditures              16,139   17,716  19,953   20,151   20,639                6.7         7.7           5.2       73.0     80.6     76.8
v-stoeet Expesditures (inlo. stooka)   6,650    6,816   7,429    8,095    8,424                6.0         6.8           7.3       30.0     30.0     31.3
N.L-ooo1 S-Viogs                       6,904   6,806    6,241    7,169    7,756                6.6         1.3          4.5        31.2     25.2     28.8
Do-cotio S-0i.0s                       5,499   5,004    4,812    5,736    6,394                3.1         1.4          8.5        24.9     19.4     23.8
MERChANDISE TRADE                            A-naol Data At Cur-ret Priees                                                        As o Peroentana of Total
Ieports
Capital Good.                        688.6   1003.8   1306.0  1909.5   2132.3
Petroleum                             82.5    219.8    681.2   730.9    818.4                                                     21.3     17.4    23.6
Iotereediato Goods                  1953.9   2589.1  4560.8   4659.8   0268.8                                                     63.1     69.7    67.5
GoCsooptioo Foods                    502.3    698.0   970.0    792.3    798.3                                                     15.6     12.9     8.9
Tota1 Meroh. Ieports (o.1.f.)       3227.3   4510.7   7518.0  8092.5   9017.8                                                    100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
CapItol Goods                        316.1    389.3    514.0   650.0    776.9                                                    I14.1     13.5     16.0
Toetile .ed L-oth-r Products         382.4    409.2    477.0   548.0    650.0                                                     ib.2     12.5     13.4
Non-Ferous metolargy                 272.0    324.6    556.0   458.0    585.1                                                     12.2     14.6     12.1
Agri.oltorol produce (incl. food)    476.0    621.6    604.0    503.0   591.2                                                     21.3     15.9     12.2
other                                B10.7   1107.9   1654.0  1824.0   2248.3                                                     36.2    43.5     46.3
Total Mer.h. Exports (f.o.b.)       2237.2   2852.6   3805.0  3988.0   4851.5                                                    100.0    100.0    100.0
nERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                               1974.100
Export Price lndex                    63.0     76.0    100.0   107.0    108.0
Ieport Price Index                    58.0     68.0    100.0   111.0    121.0
lres of Toado Index                  109.0    112.0    100.0    96.0     98.0
Export Volure Index                   93.3     98.4    100.0   100.0    110.0
VALUE ADDED 8Y SECTOR                  Aonnal Data in C.oata-t 1974 Pti.c. rod
Excha,Re Rats af 01-17.0 Di0.                                                          As Per-..taso of Total
Agri-ult.r.                          3213     3496     3765    3727     3876                  2.7        5.1           3.5        15.6     16.0     15.1
Maoofltootirg 6 Moinig               6374     6712     7471    7930     8379                  6.6        7.6           7.7        31.0     31.8     32.6
Othor                               10956    11362    12276   12927    13418                  5.4        3.7           5.7        53.3     52.2    52.3
T1t01                               20543    21570    23512   24584    25873                  5.3        6.2           6.0       100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBL1C FINANCE-                                     Correct Prioss                                                                As Percent of GDP/Market Pri...
CGrreot Eeceipts                    2772.0   3489.0             ..             ..        ..                             .         17.5
Curroot Expo-ditores                2520.8   3154.8     ..      ..       ..                                             .          1.6
Budgetry Saviogr                     251.2    334.2     ..      ..       ..                  ..          ..            .,          1.6
Public Sector IGnv estet             224.9    281.3     ..      ,.       ..                  ..          ..            ..          1.4
VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (CONSTANT 1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER 1974                         TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                             RLATE OF 01-17.0 Din.)
In Hillioos   % of Totl1              1972-74                    In US Dollars   Peroont of AveraRe            19'7-74
6/                             1972   1974    1972  1974    Averaeg AnnuaI Grovth Rate          1972     1974   1972          1974    A-erage Aaoual arootl. Rate
Agriclt.re                                3.9    3.8    47.8  45.0              -1.9                       823     1003   32.7          35.6             10.4
Mon,f.cturiog rod Mining                   1.6    1.7    19.1  20.4               4.3                      4075     4395  162.1         155.8              3.9
Other                                      2.7    2.9    33.1  34.6               3.2                      4050     4258 161.1          150.9              2.5
To-al 6/                                   8.2    8.3   100.0 100.0               1.0                      2514     2821  100.0         100.0              5.9
1/ Preliisary.
2/ E9tiat.
3/ Figures may aot add .a..tly due to rouDding
4/ Federation, Republics a0d Autonomoue frori..cs and C-eea.e,  figures eannot bo prjo.cted
I..cause of the far reaching effeeta of th4 00v Consttitti-o on the role of he Sta,. ad
the alse of it. budget.
5/ Total resident active labor for.c.
f/ Labor force in ngriculture aDd oos-O8rlorltrral private e-ployot, and, acoerdingly,
total arplo.my-t ooonocy are estimates.
Europe, Middle EDst 6 North Afri-a Regloo
Fhebrary 12, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Average Annual
Actual               Estimated      Projected       Growth Rates
1972     r2Z;[    1974        1975            1976-            1972-75
SUMhARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (tnl. NFS)                     3425     4407      5694        6088            7319             21.1
Imports (incl. NFS)                    3821     5168     8312         8891            9961             32.5
Resource Balaoce (X-M)                 -395     -761     -2618       -2803           -2642
Interest                               -165     -222      -285        -305            -407             22.7
Workers Remittances                      889     1310     1511        1700            1926             24.1
Other factor serviceo net                17       50        93          70              -              60.3
Corrent Transfers (net)                  74       87       110         120             132             17.5
Balance on Current Account              419      454     -1189       -1218            -991
MALT Loo.so
Disbursesents                         943     1170      1426        211)1           2449             30.6
-Repvby-to                            -570     -686     -814        -1106           -1279             24.7
Net Disbursements                       373      484       612         995            1170             38.7
Capital Tranractims n.e.i.t.           -117      -285      139         320
Use of Reserves                         -675     -663      438         -97            -179                                         Actual
_____  DEBTANDDEB  SEVIC  192  173  974Estimated
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITTMENTS                                                              DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                 1972    1973    1974    1975
Official Grants & Gront-like             -        -         -           -              Public Debt Out. & Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans                                                                      Interest on Public Debt              63.1     96.4   102.6   114.5
IBRD                                 75.0    104.9    256.5           -              Repayneets on Public Debt           154.1    208.0   288.1   313.3
IDA                                    -        -         -           -              Total Public Debt Service           217.3   304.4    390.7   427.8
Other Multilateral                      -        -        -           -              Other Debt Service (net)             634.5   722.6   821.4   975.1
Goveroments                          182.9    175.0    612.7          -              Total Debt Service (oet)             851.8  1027.0  1212.1  1502.9
Suppliers                             82.3      3.1       .6          -                                       4/
Financial Inotitutions               142.0     19.4    367.5          -              Burden on Export Earnings (7.)
Bonds                                  -         -        -
Public Loans n.e.i.                    -     _            -           -              Public Debt Services Ratio             5.0     5.3     5.4     5.5
Total Public MLT Loans               482.2     302.4   1237.3                         Total Debt Service Batio              19.7    18.0    16.8    19.3
TDS - Direct Investment Inc.            -       -       -       -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1974
EXTERNAL DEBT                             Disbursemnents Only     Percent                Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                    424.6               19.9
IDA                                             -                   -                    Int. as % Prior Year DO&D           4.7      5.9     5.4     5.4
Other Multilateral                              6.9                 .3                   Asort as % Prior Year DO6D          11.4    12.8    15.1    14.7
Governments                                  1149.7               53.8
Suppliers                                     143.6                6.7                 IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
F-nancial Institutions                        392.5               18.4                      as % Public Debt O&D             19.5    18.4    19.9      -
Bonds                                          19.0                 .9                      as b Public Debt Services        14.7    12.6    11.3    11.6
Public Debt n.o.i.                               .3                 -
2136.6              100.0
Other M&LT Debts                             2833.2
Short-teem Debt (disb. only)
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includcs errors and oanissions, short teem loans, net export credits,    IMF account,
Nationol Sack and Coaxercial Bank Credits.
3/ Figures no debt service   do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences cn coverage.
4/  Iscludes workers rreittances.
Europe, Middle Eset 6 North Africa Region
February 12, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at March 31, 1976)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower              Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Fifteen Loans fully disbursed                                     434.7
657      1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank     Telecommunications    40.0     0.2
751      1971   SFRY                         Roads                 35.0     0.4
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran     Tourism               10.0     3.6
777      1971   SFRY                         Multipurpose Water    45.0    34.7
782      1971   "Babin Kuk"-Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism               20.0      9.9
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia    Power                75.0     23.1
894      1973    Stopanska Banka, Skopje     Agricultural
Industries          31.0    12.3
916      1973   Naftagas                     Gas Pipeline          59.4    24.8
947      1973   Kikinda                      Iron Foundry          14.5     4.3
965      1974   IMT                          Tractor Factory       18.5     1.5
966      1974   FOB                          Iron Foundry          15.0     8.5
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                 Roads                30.0      4.4
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje      Industrial Credit     28.0    22.2
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo     Industrial Credit     22.0    18.6
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             93.0     76.3
1060     1974   Port of Bar                  Harbor Expansion      44.0    43.8
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik            Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     6.0
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka           Agricultural Credit   50.0    50.0
1143     1975   Republic-Road Organization   -
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                 Roads                 40.0    40.0
1173/a   1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod       Pipeline              49.0    49.0
Total (less cancellation)                               1160.1   433.6
of which has been repaid                                 136.3
Total now outstanding                                   1023.8
Amount sold.                           7.8
of which:  Amount repaid             6.2                 1.6
Total now held by Bank                                  1022.2
Total undisbursed                                                433.6
/a   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1976)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation   Investment
for Yugoslavia                       Corporation     -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.      Automotive
Industry        5.0     8.0     13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Mororjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt      Industry         7.5    2.1      9.6
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive
Benzz A.G.                           Industry        12.7    2.7     15.3
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires            4.0    1.5      5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                           Pulp and Paper 13.3      -      13.2
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARICO               Special Steel   10.0     -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0     -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Melaturski                    Steel           50.0     -      50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 112.5   16.3    128.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    57.8    2.2     60.0
Total commitments held by IFC                            54.9   14.1     68.8
Total Undisbursed                                        36.6    5.8     39.4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Effective Date: August 30, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1976.
After initial delays the Bank-financed part of the project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and is now nearing completion. The installation of
trunk exchanges which are not financed by the Bank, has been delayed and
will be fully completed shortly. We are in communication with the borrower
with respect to the undisbursed balance of $200,000.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective Date:
June 2, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sections but one are open for traffic. Completion
of the remaining section has been delayed due to lack of funds. While costs
have increased, future earmarked revenues from fuel taxes, particularly on
purchases of fuel by Italian motorists crossing the border to buy cheaper
fuel in Yugoslavia, have decreased. The final section is now expected to be
completed by September, 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
There have been delays in implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective, appointing consultants, providing the
necessary infrastructure and approvals by local authorities. As a result
disbursements are behind schedule. Bids received in July 1974 indicated that
the project, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds)
would cost approximately 100 percent above the originally estimated cost of
US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly due to rapid inflation in construc-
tion costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a re-
duced complex containing some 1,616 beds (Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December
16, 1974, R74-258). The total cost would be US$39.9 million requiring addi-
tional financing of about US$14 million. Financing for the revised project
has been agreed upon. The port hotel is scheduled for pre-opening occupancy
in April, 1976 and the village hotel complex is scheduled to open in May 1976;
however, serious construction problems with regard to the foundations were
encountered in the case of the cliff hotel, the completion of which has been
delayed until October, 1976.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date:  May 31, 1972; Closing Date:   December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction is
now underway with the main dam scheduled for completion by late 1976. A small
part of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder expected
to be completed in 1978. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates
but the overrun financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo. Delays
have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjustment and agricul-
tural extension services. Consultants have been recently engaged to help find
solutions.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism:   US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due
to delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Ac-
cordingly disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have
now been largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule.
Bids for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the
project would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9
million). This increase is largely due to rapid inflation in construction
costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a reduced
complex containing some 2,034 beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16,
1974, R74-259). The total cost would be US$51.5 million requiring additional
financing of about US$1.6 million. This additional financing for the revised
project has been arranged but in light of the increased financial commitments
necessary from the local banks and a re-evaluation of the financial capabilities
of the sponsor necessary to implement a project of this size, the local banks
and the Borrower have proposed and are discussing with the Bank a change in
sponsorship. This proposed change in sponsorship will be submitted to the
Executive Directors for their consideration after being fully reviewed by
the Bank. Meanwhile, construction is proceeding well and all civil works are
near completion. The hotels are scheduled to open in June, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project execution began about one year behind schedule mainly be-
cause of coordination difficulties and inherent delays in reaching agreement
among 12 borrowers. This is the first attempt at countrywide coordination
in the sector. All main contracts have been awarded and construction is
proceeding satisfactorily; however, the cost of the project has increased
84 percent from $225 million to $415 million chiefly due to escalation in
overall costs, including both civil works and equipment. The cost overrun
is expected to be financed from funds from the Federal Republic of Germany
and the borrowers' own resources. Action on appointment of management con-
sultants to help improve planning operation and management of the inter-
connected power system is still pending. Early difficulties with reporting,
changes in the organization of the sector, and determination of the financial
performance of individual borrowers have largely been resolved.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December
31,1978.
Sub-projects accounting for all but Din 7.75 million ($430,500
equivalent) of the amount allocated have been approved by the lending insti-
tution. Private sector demands for sub-loans have by far been in excess of
financing available under the project. Twenty-one sub-projects have been



ANNEX II
Page 5
completed and eighteen are under construction in the social sector. Of the
three studies encompassed by the project the one on irrigation has been
completed while the other two on marketing and private farm production
are in the final draft stage.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline:   US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
Bids received on pipes and equipment exceeded appraisal estimates
and civil works costs have increased so that project costs are now about 71
percent above the appraisal estimate. Accordingly the project has been re-
defined. Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II would
provide for a pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be con-
structed under the proposed Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for
which additional Bank financing will be proposed. Naftagas has obtained
additional local currency financing required for Phases I and II. The pro-
posed change will be submitted to the Executive Directors for their con-
sideration.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
Effectiveness was delayed about five months due primarily to the
extra time required for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement by the
Federal Assembly. Project implementation is about four months aheacl of
schedule. Total project costs now are about 13 percent (Din. 79.0 million,
about US$4.6 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to large in-
creases in local costs. Financing of this cost overrun has been arranged
with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Effective Date: June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions of the project, however, is continuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There presently is a 3 month delay in project implementation but
completion is expected to be on schedule. Local costs are about 27 percent
(Din. 173 million, about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates
due to design changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost
overrun has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Two out of six road sections are complete and the remainder should
be completed by the end of 1976. Two requests for changes in road align-
ments have been agreed; both changes were requested to accommodate communi-
ties which would be better served by the realignments.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
It is expected that the loan would be fully committed by September
1976 and disbursed by end-1977, ahead of appraisal estimates. The reasons
being: use of Bank funds to finance a greater than anticipated proportion
of the foreign exchange requirements of projects financed by the banks; the
suitability of Bank funds for investors' projects and the overall scarcity
of investment resources in Yugoslavia; and the banks' ability to adapt quickly
to the methodology proposed by IBRD for appraisal of projects submitted
for Bank financing.
Loan 1013 Bosnia Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the railways' invest-
ment plan. After serious delays in 1974, project execution improved sub-
stantially in 1975 but remains somewhat below appraisal forecasts. Delays
have been due principally to financial difficulties. Government and the
Community of Railways are having difficulties in raising tariffs sufficient
to cover inflationary costs and the Bank is currently reviewing this matter
with the Government. There has been good progress on investment planning
and project management.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but settlement of com-
pensation to occupiers of expropriated land and construction of alternative
housing must be accelerated to enable the construction of the railway mar-
shalling yards serving the new port facilities in due time. The Bank con-
tacted the Government of the Republic of Montenegro which has intervened
in this matter.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Preliminary works are underway, and services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk hotel complex (Loan 782-YU) will be finished in time for the
initial operation of the hotel complex.



ANNEX II
P'age 7
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1.975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Two sub-projects from the autonomous Province of Vojvodina have al-
ready been approved and more sub-project applications from the other Republics
are presently being reviewed for approval.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on March 30, 1976.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1976.






ANNEX III
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:           (a)  Preduzece za Transport i Distribuciju Gasa Sarajevo
(Sarajevo Gas Enterprise, or SGE)
(b) "Naftagas" Kombinat Naftne Industrije "Gas" Radna
Organizacija Transporta Prerade Primene i Prometa
Gasa sa solidarnom odgovornoscu Novi Sad (Naftagas
Gas Unit, or NGU)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:              US$38.0 million equivalent in various currencies, of which:
(a) SGE would receive US$27.0 million, and
(b) NGU would receive US$11.0 million.
Terms:               SGE:  Amortization in 25 years, including a five-year
grace period, with interest at 8-1/2 percent.
NGU: Amortization in 20 years, including a three-year
grace period with interest at 8-1/2 percent.
Project              The project would provide the facilities needed to abate
Description:        air pollution in Sarajevo.  A natural gas transmission
and distribution system would be installed and heating
units would be converted to burn gas.
Essential features of the project are:
(i) Construction of about 265 km of natural gas trans-
mission line from Batajnica (near Belgrade) via
Zvornik to Sarajevo including pressure and regulat-
ing stations,
(ii) Construction of about 28 km of high pressure distribu-
tion pipeline and metering substations to supply four
industrial consumers,
(iii) Construction of 20 km of distribution ring, about
50 pressure regulating stations, about 160 km of
service lines and related control system and spare
parts,
(iv) Conversion of about 300 central heating plants and
installation of about 10,000 house connections, and



ANNEX III
Page 2
(v) Technical assistance for the preparation of final
design and tender documents, supervision of con-
struction, staff training and a tariff study.
Estimated Cost:                                     (million US$)
Local   Foreign    Total      Percent
A.   NGU component:                                                (of total
Batajnica/Zvornik Line                                      project cost)
Transmission Line                 7.2      7.3      14.5          19
Distribution Lines                0.3      0.4       0.7           1
Compressor Stations               0.8      1.3       2.1           3
Engineering Services              0.8       -       0.8            1
Physical Contingencies            0.4      0.3       0.7           1
Price Contingencies               1.9      1.7       3.6           5
Sub-Total                      11.4     11.0     22.4           30
B.   SGE Component:
Zvornik/Sarajevo Line,
Distribution System
and Conversion of
Heating Plants
Transmission Line                 7.8       9.3     17.1          23
Distribution System               7.3      6.5      13.8          18
Telecontrol                       0.3      0.2       0.5           1
Conversions                       0.6      1.3       1.9           3
Consulting Services               1.7      1.4       3.1           4
Physical Contingencies            2.2      2.3       4.5           6
Price Contingencies               6.2      5.4      11.6          15
Sub-Total                      26.1     26.4      52.5          70
Total Project Cost                    37.5      37.4     74.9         100
Interest During Construction           2.8       8.1     10.9
Other requirements                                        4.3
Total Financing Required During
the Project Construction Period                          90.1



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plans:     (For the project construction period (SGE:    1976-80,
NGU: 1976-79), including interest during construction
and working capital for SGE):
million US$              Percent
of sub-total     of total
A.   SGE:
IBRD                              27.0             41
Internal Cash                      7.2              11
Local Loans                       22.8              35
Capital Contributions of
City Government                 8.7              13
Sub-Total                         65.7             100            73
B.   NGU:
IBRD                              11.0             45
Internal Cash                      0.9              4
Local Loans                        5.2              21
Capital contributions              7.3              30
Sub-Total                         24.4             100            27
Total                               90.1              -             100
Estimated                                        Amount (US$ million)
Disbursements:           Calendar Year        Annual       Cumulative
1976               0.2            0.2
1977              14.8           15.0
1978              11.5           26.5
1979               8.5           35.0
1980               3.0           38.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement         Materials and equipment contracts and civil works con-
Arrangements:       tracts, except as noted below, would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement". For the pur-
pose of bid comparison on equipment and supply contracts,
qualified domestic manufacturers would be given a margin
of preference of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever
is less. Materials and equipment, and civil works con-
tracts for distribution and conversion components esti-
mated to cost less than US$200,000 and US$500,000 respec-
tively, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding advertised locally and in accordance with the proce-
dures of the Federal Government which are satisfactory.
Most equipment supply and civil works contracts for the
distribution network are expected to be won by Yugoslav
enterprises. Contracts for the supply of the natural gas
transmission and compression facilities are expected to
be awarded to foreign firms. Contracts for construction
of the transmission line are expected to be awarded to a
joint venture of local and foreign firms. Expenditure by
the City Assembly and SGE for preparation of feasibility
studies and final design amounting to about US$0.4 mil-
lion is expected to be incurred prior to loan signature.
Retroactive Bank financing of not more than US$0.3 mil-
lion is proposed.
Technical            A.  SGE:  About 38 manyears for assistance with final
Assistance                design, tender documents, supervision of construc-
(Consultants):            tion, initial operations and staff organization and
training, and about 0.5 manyears for a tariff study.
B. NGU: About 8 manyears for supervision of construction.
Rate of Return:      Benefits not quantifiable.
Estimated Project    December 31, 1980 (SGE component--December 31, 1980;
Completion Date:   NGU component--December 31, 1978).
Appraisal Report:    Report Number 1168-YU
Date: May 11, 1976
EMENA Projects Department



IBRD 11460R
YUGOSLAVIA
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
,   ', ,  WX                   <       <     ,     q  - '    GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
45..  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  <.  /                               A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIR   S ARAJETONPROJEC
/1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
2,-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTUS NMTR






I  IGAS IMPORTS FROM
I8-                  19-                HUNGARY  SEGDIN          2I.             Y     L
YUGOS[A/IA
\   H U N G  A R Y          k   tA-t(K,.W   9                               SARAJEVO
m6. S  ,,,   1t  V           AIR PCLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
GAS TRANSMISSION LINE
t  m S -bnto.  3,E.2 ^  SAdo   ;\2   i  ^,  G                Pro1ect M-in Pipelie
-     ProIect Distribution Pipelie  to Consumers
  -) -o k_ P pelmne under Constnchon(Naft-osLoon 916- Yu)
 Wd                      Gus tra-tn  Pl-t d - Conrtruntirr(NoiogonLoon
916-Y.)
Zirirre                Poin~~~~~~~~E ting Pipelines
s.               ~~~~~~~E.isting  Gnutreting  Plans
NZ500    \s                                 - -- |  Proiected erpansion of gos Pipelines
_____Mei Roeds
r\2 /  -  -  ---Boundaries of Repsblics & Awta-omous Prooices
____ lle-nt-.na  Boun d.rie
I.J                  tnd.ek X               a a  a H4<NaLolgocl 9  ~ Pro5euted Seles 1977-85  45-
t\S\;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ca                        o          ..s r %98.iti .5s..
6~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,i .,,or, ,,        .ir::,nii- ,irrirnrri. P,titt5.,.
\~~~~~~~~~Ud f                                  \Du oo-U e
uS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
it-                     o;                                  f    \l         / (&                       }Vo ,  Pen
50       ~A-d,.\\-
-v          -t-*.  -                           - a G
N- ,           . -  . ;
- - w ~~~~~~~~~~ s t ~~~~~~~~ f s ~~~~~~I                                                           Sn~
!  ~~ .  .  ' ._                       <7     1  ,    -. ~~~~ - rr-  ~~I rA
<<,                                             L., -K | -- , ,  -l           nz



