FILE COPY
Report No. 1168-YU
Appraisal of Sarajevo Air Pollution Control
Project Yugoslavia
May 11, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar (Din)
US$ 1.0        = Din 18.0
Din 1.0        = US$ 0.055
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kilometer (km)                      = 0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (km2)              = 0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                        = 2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                     = 0.03937 inch
Centimeter (cm)                     = 0.3937 inch
Meter (m)                           = 39.37 inches
Kilo calorie (Kcal)                 = 3.968 British Thermal Unit (BTU)
Giga calorie (Goal)                 = 1.0 million KMlo calorie
Ton oil equivalent (Toe)            = 10 million Kcal
Microgram per cubic meter          =¶ug/m3
GlOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIH     =     Bosna i Hercegovina
(Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina)
NGU           Naftagas Gas Unit
SGE           Sa-rajevo Gas Enterprise
SFRY           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SAS     -     Social Accounting Service
SGE'a and NGU's Fical Year
January 1 to December 1



FOR OFFICIL US ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No
SUMMARY                  .............................................                           i-iii
I       INTRODUCTION                      ........................................                           1
II.       THE  SECTOR  ..........................................                                             2
A.  Air Pollution   ...............................                                                 2
B .     Natural  Gas  Sector  ......                   ............... ........                     2
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ......................                                                                   4
A.  Background .......................                                                              4
B.  Air Pollution .....................                                                             5
IV.       THE  PROJECT   .........................................                                            7
A.      Objectives   .....................................                                          7
B.      Background   .....................................                                          7
C.      Gas  Supply   .....................................                                         7
D.      Description   ....................................                                          8
E.      Status  of  Engineering   ..........................                                        8
F.      Cost  Estimates   .................................                                         9
G.      Financing  Plan   .................................                                       12
H.      Implementation   .................................                                        13
I.      Disbursements   ..................................                                        15
J.      Environmental  and  Health  Impacts  ....                             ...........         16
V.   THE PROJECT ENTITY - SARAJEVO GAS ENTERPRISE (SGE) ..                                                 16
A.      Background   ..........                    ...........................                    16
B.      Training   ...........                   ............................                     18
C.  Audit . ..........................................    18
D.      Insurance   ...........                   ...........................                     18
E.      Naftagas  Gas  Unit  ..............................                                       18
VI.       FINANCE           .......................                ......................                    19
A.      Tariffs   ........................................                                        19
B.      Future  Performance   .............................                                       20
This report was prepared by Messrs. W. Hayden, A. Al-Khafaji, R. Saunders,
and J. Lowther.
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World  ank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                 Page No.
VII.  JUSTIFICATION  ......................................    21
A.  Background .      ....................................    21
B.  Benefits ............     ... ...    21
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............   22
ANNEXES
1. The City and Its Organization
2. Air Pollution and Alternative Solutions
3. Description of the Project
4. Forecast Cost Estimates
5. Construction Schedule
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. SGE - Income Statements
8. SGE - Cash Flow Statements
9. SGE - Balance Sheets
10. SGE - Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
11. Justification
12. Indicators
MAPS
IBRD 11460R - Gas Distribution System
IBRD 11850 - Gas Transmission Line



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY
i.        Sarajevo is the Capital and economic center of the Republic of
Bosna i Hercegovina, one of the less developed Republics in Yugoslavia. The
city is located in the narrow valley of the Miljacka River at an altitude
ranging from about 500 to 700 meters above sea level. The climate is conti-
nental characterized by hot summer, severe winter and large diurnal tempera-
ture differences.
ii.       Large scale migration from the surrounding areas took place in the
post-war period and the city's population increased three-fold to over 300,000
during the last thirty years. However, investment in infrastructure did not
keep pace with the city's growth and Sarajevo is presently faced with over-
strained public utility services and high levels of water and air pollution.
iii.      The severe air pollution in Sarajevo is attributed primarily to
burning of low grade fuels for heating. The Serbian and USSR air quality
standards for S02 and soot are exceeded about 180 days per year and the U.S.
primary standards are exceeded about 70 days per year.
iv.       The proposed project aims at abating air pollution by providing a
pollution free natural gas supply. The project consists of the construction
of gas transmission and compression facilities to link Sarajevo to the trans-
mission system in Serbia and construction of a gas distribution network in
Sarajevo. The project is estimated to cost US$74.9 million of which US$37.4
million (50%) is foreign exchange.
v.        A Bank loan of US$38.0 million is proposed; US$27.0 million for
Sarajevo Gas Enterprise (SGE), an enterprise recently established, and US$11.0
million for Naftagas Gas Unit (NGU). The SGE loan is for a period of 25 years,
including 5 years grace and the NGU loan is for a period of twentv years, in-
cluding 3 years grace. The Bank loan would provide 42% of the total financing
requirements or about 50% of the total project cost and is equivalent to 84%
of the foreign exchange cost including interest during construction on the Bank
loan. The balance of the financing requirements will be provided by internal
cash generation (9%), local loans (31%) and capital contributions (18%).
vi.       The gas transmission line from Zvornik to Sarajevo will connect with
the transmission line from Batainica to Zvornik to be constructed by NGU. The
Batajnica-Zvornik line was included in a previous Bank project (Naftagas Loan
916-YU) but due to cost overruns on that project, construction of this branch
line was to be deferred. To ensure the timely supply of gas to Sarajevo by
1978, additional financing to cover the foreign exchange for this line is
included in this project.



- ii -
vii.      The newly established SGE will be responsible for construction and
operation of the Zvornik-Sarajevo transmission line and the gas distribution
system. Consultants have been engaged to assist SGE in preparing final
design and supervision of construction. SGE will also engage consultants to
provide assistance in management organization, operating, training and tariff
policy. NGU with the assistance of consultants will be responsible for con-
struction and operation of the Batajnica-Zvornik line.
viii.     Expenditure by the City Assembly of Sarajevo and SGE for preparation
of feasibility studies and final designs amounting to about US$0.4 million is
expected to be incurred prior to loan signature. Retroactive Bank financing
of not more than US$0.3 million is proposed.
ix.       Construction of the NGU component will commence in mid-1977 and will
be completed by end 1978. Construction of the SGE component will commence in
1977 and will be completed in 1980. However, natural gas will be available
to about 1/3 of the city's central heating systems during the winter of 1978-
79.
X.        Equipment supply and civil works contracts for distribution and
conversion estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and US$500,000 respectively
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with the Federal Government procedures which are satisfactory.
All other material, equipment and civil works contracts will be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines.
For purpose of bid comparison for equipment supply contracts, it is proposed
that qualified domestic manufacturers will be given a margin of preference of
15% or customs duties, whichever is lower. Most equipment supply and civil
works contracts for the distribution network are expected to be won by Yugoslav
firms. Contracts for supply of the transmission line are expected to be awarded
to foreign firms and the contract for construction is expected to be awarded to
a joint venture of local and foreign firms.
xi.       SGE's rate of return on net fixed assets will be about 4% in 1979
and about 10% in 1981. After completion of the project, the rate of return
will rise to about 19% in 1984. The debt service coverage is 1.4 in 1981,
improving to 2.2 in 1985.
xii.      The proposed project is the least cost solution at discount rates of
10%, 15% and 20% for meeting the air quality standards of Sarajevo. The major
health and environmental benefits associated with the project are difficult to
quantify. It can, however, be reasonably assumed that the general improvement
of the environment will prolong life expectancy and result in lower medical
costs, less absenteeism, improved productivity and a substantial improvement
of the quality of life in Sarajevo.
xiii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, subject to
the conditions of effectiveness, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$38.0 million; US$27.0 million to Preduzece za Transport i Distribuciju Gasa -
Sarajevo (SGE) and US$11.0 million to "Naftagas" Kombinat Nafte Industrije



- iii -
"Gas" Radna Organizacija Transporta Prerade Primene i Prometa Gasa - sa
solidarnom odgovornoscu Novi Sad (NGU). In view of the project construction
periods, and appropriate term for the SGE loan is 25 years including 5 years
of grace and for the NGU loan 20 years including 3 years of grace.






APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY) has requested a Bank loan to help finance a project to abate air pol-
lution in Sarajevo, capital of the Republic of Bosna i Hercegovina (BIH).
The project comprises construction of gas compression and transmission facil-
ities to link Sarajevo to the Naftagas Gas Units (NGU) gas transmission sys-
tem in Serbia and a gas distribution network in Sarajevo. The project is
expected to cost US$74.9 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component
of US$37.4 million. A Bank loan of US$38.0 million; US$27.0 million to the
Sarajevo Gas Enterprise (SGE) and US$11.0 million to Naftagas Gas Unit (NGU),
is proposed and is equivalent to 84% of the foreign exchange requirements in-
cluding interest during construction on the Bank loan. The loan to SGE will
be for a period of 25 years including 5 years grace and the loan to NGU will
be for a period of 20 years including 3 years grace.
1.02      The proposed gas transmission, compression and distribution facil-
ities are part of a scheme to reduce air pollution in the Sarajevo area. The
project resulted from studies undertaken by consultants in 1973, to evaluate
the increasingly severe air pollution problems of the city and propose solu-
tions. The consultants recommended the use of gas for the densely populated
section of the city and low sulphur fuel in other areas as the only techni-
cally acceptable and economically viable solution to meet the air quality
standard adopted by the citv.
1.03      In parallel with the project, the Bank is also considering financing
the Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage project aimed at improving the water
supply facilities and abating water pollution in the Sarajevo area.
1.04      A Bank reconnaissance mission to Sarajevo was undertaken in January
1973 to provide guidance on preparation of feasibility studies for project
works. Several Bank missions subsequently visited Sarajevo to review progress
and assist in project preparation. An appraisal mission comprising Messrs.
Hayden, Lee, Al-Khafaji, Bourcier, Saunders and Lowther visited Sarajevo in
December 1974. Several Bank missions visited Yugoslavia in 1975 to ascertain
progress on. gas supply. A Yugoslav delegation visited Washington in March,
1976 to discuss the amending agreement to loan 916-YU and update this appraisal
report. This report is based on information obtained by the missions and
provided by the City Assembly of Sarajevo, NGU and their consultants. 1/
1/   Stanford Research Institute (USA), Energoinvest and Unioninvest (Yugoslavia)
and Ball Reed Engineering (USA).



- 2 -
II. THE SECTOR
A. Air Pollution
2.01      Because of the developing urbanization and industrialization of
Yugoslavia, air pollution has been increasing rapidly and air pollution con-
trol has been given increased priority. Responsibility for setting standards
and taking corrective action rests with the Republics and local communes. No
air quality standards have yet been established for the Republic of BIH where
there are two main areas of concern; Sarajevo and the steel manufacturing town
of Zenica 1/. The City Assembly of Sarajevo has adopted the Serbian standards
and has established an Environmental Commission to act as an advisor to the
Assembly. A department of the City Assembly is responsible for monitoring
air pollution levels.
B. Natural Gas Sector
2.02      The major cause of air pollution is the burning of high sulphur lig-
nite, coal and fuel oil in large urban areas. The replacement of these fuels
by higher grade fuels: coke, low sulphur fuel oil and particularly natural
gas is a major factor in abating pollution. Although Yugoslavia has com-
mercially exploitable gas fields in Vojvodina and Croatia, the use of natural
gas has so far been limited by the lack of adequate transmission and distri-
bution facilities. In 1972/73, a large program was launched by NGU to intro-
duce natural gas to eastern Yugoslavia. This program was based on the use
of domestic gas resources as well as imports of gas from the USSR. The capi-
tal investment program provided for the construction of a pipeline system of
about 23,000 inch/km and of gas treating facilities to substitute gas for
coal and fuel oil in the industrial and residential heating sectors. The
Bank financed part of this program (Naftagas - Loan 916-YU) which was ex-
pected to become operative by the end of 1976.
2.03      Soon after the signature of this Loan, the project ran into a series
of unexpected difficulties, the most important of which was a 250% increase
in the price of pipes, which originally accounted for about 40% of the foreign
exchange cost. The Borrower (NGU) and other participants in the financing of
the project were unable to secure immediately the additional foreign exchange
required to complete the project within the projected time schedule. NGU has,
therefore, proposed to implement the Naftagas Pipeline Project in three stages
or phases. Phase I would cover about 60% of the facilities originally planned
and would consist of the main transmission line from Horgos (on the Hungarian
border) and Mokrin (in the Yugoslavia gas fields) past Belgrade to Paracin.
1/   An ongoing expansion of the Zenica steel works, partly financed by IFC,
includes provision for pollution control equipment on existing and pro-
posed facilities.



-3-
Phase II would consist of the line from Batajnica to Zvornik (thus adding the
short line from Loznica to Zvornik to the original design), and Phase III
would extend the main line from Paracin to Nis and add additional branch lines.
2.04      Under the above proposal, the Bank's revised Naftagas Pipeline Proj-
ect would consist of Phases I and II; about 80% of the original Naftagas
Pipeline Project would be included and would continue to be financially and
economically justified. The revised Naftagas Pipeline Project would be com-
pleted by the end of 1978, about two years later than originally planned, and
the link to Sarajevo would be completed in time to commence delivery of gas
to the City by end 1978. Phase III would be implemented at a later date by
Naftagas as part of their overall investment program. Financing from Loan
916-YU would be restricted to Phase I.  Financing of USS11.0 million for Phase
II would be provided under this proposed loan to ensure the timely supply of
gas to Sarajevo and would represent additional financing for NGU. An amend-
ing agreement covering these proposed revisions of the original Naftagas Pipe-
line Project is being submitted concurrently with this loan to the Executive
Directors for approval. Ratification of this amending agreement and the amend-
ments to Administration and Finance Agreement of Loan 916-YU by the appropriate
Yugoslav authorities is a condition of effectiveness of the Loan. Increased
local financing requirements for the revised Naftagas Pipeline Project have
been obtained through Beogradska Banka, Governments of Serbia and Vojvodina,
the city of Sarajevo and from future gas consumers including Energoinvest
(Zvornik).
2.05      Besides the supply of gas to Sarajevo to abate air pollution, the
Republic of BIH is also considering the extension of gas distribution to the
main urban and industrial centers. A study group has been formed, assisted
by local and foreign consultants, to evaluate the possibility of establishing
a gas transmission system for the Republic. The study is in the initial stages
and three sources of supply are under consideration; LNG imported through the
port of Ploce, Russian or domestic natural gas delivered through the NGU sys-
tem and manufactured synthetic gas using local lignite deposits. At present,
the second alternative can provide enough gas to Sarajevo to satisfy its needs
until 1992, when it is expected that the other alternatives could be developed.
2.06      The Republics of Croatia and Slovenia are also considering the expan-
sion of existing gas transmission and distribution facilities based on impor-
tation of gas from the USSR. NGU has entered into an agreement with a USSR
enterprise for the supply of not less than 6.95 billion Nm3 of gas through
1980. NGU is presently negotiating an agreement with the People's Republic
of Hungary whereby Hungary will use the USSR gas and deliver an equivalent
volume to NGU from existing gas fields located near the Hungarian-Yugoslavia
border. The SFRY Government is also negotiating with the USSR for the supply
of 35.0 billion Nm3 of gas to NGU for the period 1977-92 and with the Republic
of Hungary for transit of this gas through Hungary. NGU and the Naftagas Pro-
duction Unit have agreed to amend the Local Gas Supply Agreement under Loan
916-YU to adjust the quantities of gas to be supplied to NGU in the light of
present gas field data. A condition of effectiveness of the loan is that
satisfactory evidence is presented to the Bank on the conclusion of the short
term agreements and the long term arrangements with the USSR and Hungary and
ratification of the amended Local Gas Supply Agreement.



-4-
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Background
3.01      Sarajevo is the Capital of the Republic of Bosna i Hercegovina (BIH),
one of the constituent Republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The city is located in the valley of the Miljacka River, a tributary of the
Bosnia River. The altitude of the urban area varies between 480 and 720 meters
above sea level (m.a.s.l.). The densely populated part of the City lies in a
narrow valley with the slopes rising steeply at about 200 meters per kilometer.
The City is surrounded by mountainous terrain, the highest point being 1,630
m.a.s.l. The climate is continental, characterized by hot summers, severe
winters and large diurnal temperature differences.
3.02      The earliest traces of organized settlement in the Sarajevo region
reach back to the Neolithic period. The city developed as a military and
administrative center within the Ottoman Empire and its physiognomy was
strongly influenced by its Turkish rulers. In 1878, Turkish power was replaced
by the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. During the Hapsburg's forty years rule, the
present commercial center of the city was constructed. On June 28, 1914,
Sarajevo's name became a milestone in history when the Crown Prince, Archduke
Francis Ferdinand, was assassinated in the city. The economic development of
the city was dormant in the inter-war years. But in the post-war period a
dramatic expansion of the city took place and an extensive area of high-rise
apartment buildings was constructed in the Western suburbs.
3.03      Sarajevo is the economic center of BIH, one of the less developed
Republics of Yugoslavia.  The city accounts for the largest segment of the
Republic's economy in development terms but lags behind other Yugoslav urban
centers in development. Large scale migration from the underdeveloped sur-
rounding areas took place in the post-war period and the city's population
increased threefold to over 300,000 during the last thirty years. Despite
substantial investment, infrastructure of the city did not keep pace with growth
and Sarajevo, in common with other rapidly developing urban centers, is faced
with a severe housing shortage, overstrained public utility services, traffic
congestion and water and air pollution.
3.04      In Yugoslavia, the basic unit of local government is the commune but
communes in large urban centers may combine to form political units to which
they entrust specific rights and duties.  The City of Sarajevo consists of
four communes and has been empowered to govern the Sarajevo urban area, to
raise revenue through taxes, duties and fees and to maintain and develop public
services (Annex 1). The main governing body of the City is the Skupstina
Grada or City Assembly which is composed of delegates elected by work organiza-
tions, citizens and political bodies. The City Assembly undertakes the normal
local government functions and has specific authority over local public
utilities enterprises.



- 5 -
B. Air Pollution
3.05      Sarajevo is experiencing dangerously severe air pollution levels
attributed primarily to burning of lignite coal, wood and fuel oil for heating,
combined with the special climatic conditions of the City. Most of the com-
mercial buildings and post-war apartment buildings are centrally heated, while
a large section of the older residential buildings and houses are heated by
individual appliances. There are about 320 central heating plants of which
70% are coal or lignite fired, 15% light oil, and 15% heavy fuel oil. The
normal heating season spreads from October to May with an average of 204 days
per annum.
3.06      Due to the particular topographical features of Sarajevo, the
Miljacka valley is sheltered from the prevailing winds. A climatic phenomenon
of the region is the frequent occurrence of inversions (increase of temperature
of the air with increasing altitude), particularly during winter mornings and
evenings, which inhibits upward movement of the polluted air. Such inversions
last for many days during which time pollutant concentrations rise to dangerous
levels.
3.07      Average 24-hour concentrations of So2 in excess of 1,500 Ag/m3 and
of soot in excess of 1,000 Ag/m3 have been recorded recently by several sam-
pling stations. Furthermore, the population in the center of Sarajevo is
exposed to average winter concentration of about 600 Ag/m3 and almost 50% of
the total population is regularly exposed to winter time concentrations of S02
in excess of 200 Ag/m3, a level that can cause adverse health effects. By
1985, if no controls are applied, this proportion would increase to about 70%
of the projected population and the total number of people so exposed would
be greater than the current population. In addition, a substantial number of
people in the area of highest average concentration would be exposed to aver-
age winter concentrations of about 800 ug/m3.
3.08      The above-mentioned concentrations of S02 and soot appear even more
alarming when compared to the "Standards" of Serbia, USSR and USA (Annex 2).
It is quite possible for an area to have a rather modest average concentration
of a given pollutant, but still be subjected to occasional concentrations at
high and unacceptable levels. In Sarajevo, the "Standards" are exceeded many
times per year at several of the sampling stations. For instance, the USA
primary standard for SO2 (365,ug/m3 average 24-hour once a year) is exceeded
more than 70 days per year.  The Serbian standard for S02 (150,ug/m3 aver-
age 24-hour once a year), which is adopted by the City, is exceeded
about 180 days per year at most areas and about 60 days per year at the cleanest
of the sampling sites. The situation for soot is very much the same.
3.09      The threat of air pollution to the general population is widely
recognized, however, the multiplicity of variables involved make it difficult
to establish direct relationships between the level of pollution and specific



- 6 -
health effects. A known effect of sulfur oxides is irritation of the respira-
torv system and exposure to high concentrations can affect health. This ef-
fect has been observed in Sarajevo where it appears that mortality rates from
cardio-respiratory diseases increase substantially following the occurrence
of high concentrations of S02 and soot (Annex 2).
3.10      Epidemiological studies conducted throughout the world have shown
that there is a demonstrable effect of sulfur oxides in the ambient atmos-
phere on the health of the exposed population, and the degree of that effect
is related to the degree and duration of pollution. Episodes of acute eleva-
tion of sulfur oxides and particulates have been associated with increases in
morbidity and mortality. The London smog in 1952 ranks as the worst air pollu-
tion disaster in medical history, in which 4000 died and an undetermined number
suffered health effects; however, in Sarajevo, concentrations of sulfur oxides
and particulates often exceed those measured in the London smog in 1952. The
New York air pollution disaster of 1953 occurred when a temperature inversion
produced high concentrations of air pollutants, particularly oxides of sulfur,
for 10 days. Yet the concentration of sulfur dioxide measuret; at the peak of
that 10-day period was less than the average for Sarajevo, where inversions
have been known to last for longer periods.
3.11      Medical authorities in Sarajevo have indicated that deaths among the
population rise significantly during periods when air pollution reaches high
levels. High weekly death rates show a direct correlation with the weeks
having the highest average concentr;tion of sulfur dioxide and soot (particu-
lates) in the air. The reports of hospitals in Sarajevo evidence increased
frequency of respiratory symptoms and pulmonary complications, along with a
similar increase for cardiovascular problems, during periods of heavy pollu-
tion, Chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, pneumonitis, pneumonia, asthma, and
emphysema are prevalent in the population due to the repeated exposure to
heavy concentrations of pollutants. Children are frequently taken out of the
city during periods of severe pollution.
3.12      Prior to 1972, little action was taken to control pollution in
Sarajevo. In June 1972, the City Assemblv passed a resolution limiting the
use of highly polluting fuels in the most polluted part of the city and adopted
the Serbian air quality standards for the city. A unit for environmental
control. was established within the City Assembly to monitor pollution levels
and follow up on the implementation of air pollution control programs. These
are steps to reduce pollution, however, this propram would not result in an
acceptable air pollution level (Annex 2). Moreover, because of the unavail-
ability of clean fuels in adequate quantities, it has not been possible to
implement the air pollution control regulations and the limitation on the use
of polluting fuels has not been strictly enforced.



- 7 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The proposed project aims at abating air pollution by providing
natural gas for heating purposes. The project consists of the construction
of gas transmission and compression facilities to link the city of Sarajevo
to the NGU's transmission system in Serbia and construction of a gas distribu-
tion network to bring gas to consumers in Sarajevo by the winter of 1978.
B. Background
4.02      Several alternatives to abate the air pollution in Sarajevo were
considered by the consultants including (1) use of light fuel oil and smokeless
fuels, (2) central hot water distribution system, (3) coal gasification and
(4) natural gas. Using an air pollution modeling technique, the consultants
concluded that natural or manufactured gas were the only viable solutions to
meet the city's adopted air quality standards. Natural gas was the least cost
solution of these two alternatives (para 7.02).
C. Gas Sjuply
4.03      Natural gas is not presently available in BIB.  The BIH regional gas
transmission system (para 2.05) would not be operational before 1980 at the
earliest. However, gas is available in Serbia where NGU is building a large
transmission and distribution system. One of the proposed customers of NGIJ's
system is the Energoinvest Aluminium Plant, Zvornik (Map IBRD 11850 R) which has
contracted gas supplies of 320 million m3 annually for a period of 20 years
starting in 1977. The City Assembly of Sarajevo and Energoinvest have signed
a Protocol whereby the Zvornik Plant would operate on a dual fuel basis (gas/
fuel oil) and would make gas available to the city. Energoinvest would be
able to divert sufficient gas to meet the requirements of Sarajevo except
during the winter peak period (Annex 3). During negotiations, NGU agreed to
modifv the existing gas supplv contract with Energoinvest to provide an ade-
quate sunply to meet the requirements of Sarajevo. SCE has also agreed to
enter into an agreement with Energoinvest for an adequate supplv of gas for
a period of not less than 15 years commencing in 1978 at the prevailing price
plus compensation to Energoinvest for accepting an interruptible gas supply.
Ratification of these two agreements is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.



- 8 -
D. Description
4.04      The project elements are described in detail in Annex 3 and shown
on IBRD Maps 1146nR and 11850   Project components were selected from among
several alternatives as the least cost solution to meet the projected re-
quirements.
4.05      The proposed gas transmission, compression and distribution facil-
ities are designed to meet Sarajevo's projected demand until 1990 and could
be expanded at minor cost when additional gas supplies are available. The
proposed gas transmission and distribution facilities comprise the following:
(a)  construction of gas transmission pipelines:  about 135 km
from Batajnica to Zvornik and about 130 km from Zvornik to
Sarajevo;
(b)  construction of two compressor stations with a combined
capacity of about 4000 HP;
(c)  construction of about 28 km'of high pressure distribution
pipeline and central and metering substations to supply
four industrial consumers;
(d)  construction of a main regulating station, 20 km of dis-
tribution ring, about 50 pressure regulating stations and
about 160 km of service lines;
(e)  conversion of about 300 existing central heating plants
and construction of about 10,000 service connections;
(f)  construction of a telecontrol - telemetering system to
monitor the gas transmission and distribution system; and
(g)  technical assistance for preparation of final designs,
tender documents, supervision of construction, training
of staff to operate and maintain the system, and setting
of adequate tariffs.
E. Status of Engineering
4.06      The City Assembly, assisted by foreign and local consultants, has
prepared the feasibilitv study and preliminary engineering designs. Since
SGE has no staff available at present, extensive technical assistance will
be required to prepare final designs and supervise construction. SGE has
selected Sofregaz (France) and Nederlandse Gasunie (Netherlands) in joint
venture with local consulting firms, to carry out final engineering designs
and assist SGE in supervising construction of the transmission and distribu-
tion facilities respectively. The consultants' terms of reference were pre-
pared by the appraisal mission and agreed upon with City Assembly officials.



- 9 -
NGU has already prepared the detailed design of the Batajnica-Zvornik com-
ponent of the project with the assistance of foreign and local consultants.
NGU has agreed to continue to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank
to assist in supervision of construction and early operation of the trans-
mission and compression facilities. Since the transmission line from
Batajnica to Sarajevo will serve both the Naftagas system and the Sarajevo
gas distribution system, NGU and SGE will employ consultants to optimize
the design before preparing tender documents.
F. Cost Estimates
4.07      Detailed project cost estimates, including duties and taxes, but
excluding interest during construction, are shown in Annex 4. The project
cost is estimated at about US$74.9 million; IIS$52.5 million for the SGE com-
ponent and US$22.4 million for the NGU component. The estimated foreign ex-
change cost is T7S$26.4 million (50%) and US$11.0 million (49%) for SGE and
NGIJ respectively. A summary of the cost estimates is as follows:



- 10 -
Project Costs
Percentage
-----Million Dinars---  -----Million US$------    of total
Pr-ject Elements        Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total  Project Cost
SGE Component
Transmission line      142.0    166.5    308.5   7.8       9.3     17.1       22.8
Zvornik-Saraievo
Distribution system    130.3    117.1    247.4   7.3       6.5     13.8       18.4
Telecontrol              5.6       3.6      9.2   0.3      0.2      0.5        0.7
Conversion              11.1      23.1     34.2   0.6      1.3      1.9        2.5
Engineering Services    30.5      25.5     56.0   1.7      1.4      3.1        4.1
Physical contingencies  38.9      42.0     80.9   2.2      2.3      4.5        6.0
Price contingencies    111.1      98.4    209.5   6.2      5.4     11.6       15.5
Total                  469.5    476.2    945.7  26.1    26.4       52.5       70.0
Naftagas Gas Unit
Component
Transmission line      130.2    130.6    260.8   7.2       7.3     14.5       19.4
Batajnica-Zvornik
Distribution lines       5.1       7.8     12.9   0.3      0.4      0.7        0.9
Compressor stations     14.0      23.6     37.6   0.8      1.3      2.1        2.8
Engineering services    13.8        -      13.8   0.8       -       0.8        1.1
Physical contingencies   8.0       5.6     13.6   0.4      0.3      0.7        1.0
Price contingencies     34.3      30.4     64.7   1.9      1.7      3.6        4.8
Total                  205.4    198.0    403.4  11.4    11.0       22.4       30.0
Total Project Cost     674.9    674.2   1349.1  37.5    37.4       74.9        100



- 11 -
4.08      The cost estimates were prepared by the City Assembly, NGU and their
consultants on the basis of preliminary designs for the SGE component and of
final designs for the NGU component. Unit prices were derived from recent
civil works contracts and suppliers' quotations for pipes and equipment. The
cost of engineering services was estimated using prevailing rates for con-
sultant services in Yugoslavia and Western Europe. The cost estimates reflect
price conditions expected to prevail in January 1976 and are reasonable. Physi-
cal contingencies of 8.5% and 3.5% were applied to the SGE and NGU components
respectively to cover unforeseen conditions which may arise during detailed
designs of the SGE component and construction of the project. Price increases
during project construction were calculated using the following rates:
1976    1977-79      1980
Equipment                        10         8          7
Civil Works                      14       12          10
Price contingencies account for 22% and 16% of the cost of the SGE and NGU
components respectively and for 20% of the total project cost.



-12-
G. Financing Plan
4.09           The following table sets out the estimated total funds requirements for the project
construction period and the sources from which those requirements are forecasts to be met:
FY 1976 - 80            FY 1976 - 80                  Total
Requirements                                   SGE                       NGU                     SGE and NGE
Dinar      US$    %      Dinar       US$    %      Dinar         US$    %
-----Millions -----      -----Millions -----       -----Millions -------
Project Expenditure                       945.7    52.5    80    403.4    22.4    92    1,349.1    74.9    83
Interest during Construction
IBRD                                    110.1      6.1      9     36.0      2.0      8       146.1      8.1       9
Local Loans                              50.9      2.8      4       -         -       -        50.9      2.8      3
Contribution to Naftagas                   42.8      2.4      4       _         _       _        42.8      2.4      3
Loan to Naftagas                           34.0      1.9      3                                  34.0      1.9      2
Total Requirements                      1,183.5    65.7   100        439.4    24.4   100   1 622 9    90.1    100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                 198.3    11.0    17         15.6       .9      4     213.9    11.9        13
Less Contribution, Reserve
Fund and Working Capital                 68.9      3.8      6        -          -      -      68.9       3.8       4
129.4      7.2    11       15.6        .9     4      145.0      8.1       9
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loans                      486.0    27.0    41        198.0    11.0    45        684.0    38.0       42
Local Loans                              376.9    20.9    32         93.3      5.2    21      470.2    26.1        29
City Assembly loan                        34.0      1.9      3        -          _      _       34.0      1.9       2
896.9    49.8    76       291.-3    16.2    66   1,188.2    66.0          73
Capital Contribution
City Assembly                             30.0      1.7      2        -          -      -       30.0      1.7       2
City Assembly for Naftagas                42.8      2.3      4        -          -      -      42.8       2.3       3
Housing Fund                              30.0      1.7      2        -          -      -       30.0      1.7       2
Site Preparation Fund                     54.4      3.0      5        -          -      -      54.4       3.0       3
Republics' Governments                     -         -       -      132.5      7.3    30       132.5      7.3       8
157.2      8.7    13      132.5       7.3    30      289.7    16.0        18
Total Sources                           1,183.5    65.7   100        439.4    24.4   100   1,622.9    90.1          100



- 13 -
4.10      The proposed Bank loan of US$38.0 million would provide about 42%
of the total financing requirements or 50% of the project costs and would
finance 84% of the foreign exchange cost including US$6.1 million of interest
during construction on the Bank loan. US$27.0 million will be lent to
Sarajevo Gas Enterprise (SGE), an enterprise recently established, for a
period of twenty five years, including five years grace which correspond to
the project construction period. The balance of the Bank loan of US$11.0 mil-
lion would be lent to Naftagas Gas Unit (NGU) for a period of twenty years,
including three years grace.
4.11      The Bank loan would provide 41% of SGE's financing and the balance
will be provided as follows: 11% from internal cash generation, 35% from local
loans and 13% by way of capital contributions. About 74% of the internal cash
generation will consist of payments received for house connections and charges
for conversion of furnaces. The local loans of Din 376.9 million (US$20.9
million) will be provided by the Federal Government Fund (Din 125.0 million)
and local banks (Din 201.0 million) plus interest during construction (Din 50.9
million). The Federal Government Fund loan is for a period of eighteen years
including five years grace. The local banks' loans are for a period of twenty
years including five years grace. SGE has agreed to make a contribution of
Din 42.8 million (US$2.4 million) and a loan of Din 34.0 million (US$1.9 mil-
lion) to finance Phase II of the NGU project. The City Assembly has agreed
to provide SCE with these funds. The City Assembly has also agreed to guaran-
tee the local financing and to provide additional funds to meet cost overruns,
if any. A condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan is the ratification of
the financing plan by the authorities concerned.
4.12      The Bank loan would provide 45% of NGU's financing and the balance
will be provided as follows: 4% from internal cash generation, 21% from the
Beogradska Banka and 30% by way of capital contributions from the Republics
of Serbia and Vojvodina and the City Assembly of Sarajevo. The Beogradska
Banka loan is based on guarantees given by NGU customers. A condition of ef-
fectiveness of the Bank loan is the ratification of the financing plan by the
authorities concerned.
Retroactive Financing
4.13      Expenditure by the City Assembly and SGE for preparation of feasi-
bility studies and final design amounting to about US$0.4 million is expected
to be incurred prior to loan signature. Retroactive Bank financing of not
more than US$0.3 million is proposed.
H. Implementation
4.14      Construction of the NGnT component will commence by mid-1977 and will
be completed by end-1978. Construction of the SGE component network will com-
mence in 1977 and will be completed in 1980. It is expected, however, that
natural gas will be distributed to about 1/3 of the central heating plants
during the winter of 1978-79. Details of the construction schedule are given
in Annex 5.



- 14 -
4.15      NGU will be responsible for the operation of the Batajnica-Zvornik
line and of two compressor stations. SGE will be responsible for the Zvornik-
Sarajevo line and the city gas distribution system.   As SGE will not have
adequate qualified staff to administer the project, extensive outside assist-
ance will be required for project execution (para 4.06) SGE and NGU have agreed
to coordinate construction of the Batajnica-Zvornik and Zvornik-Sarajevo sec-
tion of the transmission line and to cooperate to the extent possible in joint
procurement and supervision. SGE has assigned two engineers to cooperate with
NGU in the design and execution of the transmission line and related compres-
sion facilities.
4.16      The City Assembly has recently established the Institute for Con-
struction of the City (Institute) to be responsible for the physical develop-
ment of the urban area. The Institute has been designated to coordinate im-
plementation of the gas distribution and water supply and sewerage projects
(para 1.03) to ensure a minimum disruption of the normal commercial life of
the city. This is particularly necessary in Sarajevo where the streets are
narrow and traffic conRestion is a serious problem even in normal times. How-
ever, responsibility for supervision of construction of the project will rest
with SGE.
4.17      The City's air quality regulations, adopted in 1972, call for the
use of non-polluting fuels to reduce air pollution.  However, because of the
unavailabilitv of sufficient quantities of clean fuels, enforcement of the
regulations have not been pursued effectively. The City Assembly agreed that
in order to achieve the project objectives of reducing air pollution to
acceptable levels through use of natural gas and other clean fuels, the city
will require customers presently using polluting fuels to convert to natural
gas in areas where it is available and will strictly enforce present air
quality regulations in other areas.
4.18      It is the intention of the City Assembly to make funds available to
hoouseholders to help finance conversion costs and the purchase of new applian-
ces. The City Assembly has agreed to make arrangements with local financial
institutions, not later than December 31, 1977, to establish a revolving fund
of not less than Din 30.0 million to provide loans to householders on commer-
cial terms to meet the costs of conversion and purchase of gas appliances.
Land Acquisition
4.19      The gas transmission line will be laid in open country and the dis-
tribution lines will generally follow streets or public roadways. However,
NGU and SGE must acquire land for the main regulating station and the pressure
regulation stations. NGU and SGE have agreed that all necessary land, includ-
ing easements in public roadways and land, will be acquired prior to award
of major contracts.
Procurement
4.20      Equipment supply and civil works contracts for distribution and
conversion estimated to cost less thap US$200,000 and US$500,000 respectively
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and



- 15 -
in accordance with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia procedures
which are satisfactory. All other materials, equipment and civil works con-
tracts will be procured after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. For purpose of bid comparison for equipment
supply contracts, lt is proposed that qualified domestic manufacturers be
given a margin of preference of 15% or customs duties, whichever is lower.
4.21      Most equipment supply and civil works contracts for the distribution
network are expected to be won by Yugoslav firms. Contracts for the supply of
the natural gas transmission and compression facilities are expected to be
awarded to foreign firms. Local contractors are competent to construct the
transmission line and are likely to bid for this work. However, due to the
heavy pipeline program in Yugoslavia, the most likely outcome is that the
construction contract will be awarded to a joint venture of local and foreign
firms.
Monitoring Criteria
4.22      Annex 12 shows the indicators which would be monitored during and
after execution of the project to measure the achievement of the technical,
financial, administrative and training goals set for the proposed project.
SGE has agreed to prepare and forward to the Bank for comment quarterly and
annual reports covering the monitoring criteria outlined in Annex 12.
I. Disbursements
4.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$38.0 million would be disbursed as
follows:
SGE Component
(a)  Equipment and Materials  100% of the C.I.F. cost of directly imported
(US$11.9 million)         equipment, materials and pipe and 75% of the
total cost of locally supplied equipment,
materials and pipe.
(b)  Civil Works               25% of the cost of construction and instal-
(US$5.0 million)          lation contracts.
(c)  E~gpe iring Services      75% of the cost of consulting services and
(US$2.0 million)          training.
(d)  Interest during           100% of the interest during construction
Construction              on the Bank loan to SGE.
(US$6.1 million)
(e) Unallocated
(US$2.0 million)



- 16 -
NGU Component
(a)  Equipment and Materials  100% of the C.I.F. cost of directly im-
(US$8.5 million)         ported equipment, materials and pipe and
75% of the total cost of locally supplied
equipment, materials and pipe.
(b)  Civil Works               25% of the cost of construction and
(US$2.0 million)          installation contracts.
(c) Unallocated
(US$0.5 million)
The estimated schedule of disbursements is in Annex 6. On completion of the
project, any unused balance of the loan would be cancelled.
J. Environmental and Health Impacts
4.24      The air pollution problem in Sarajevo is currently severe (paras
3.06 through 3.08). As the population grows, the situation would further
deteriorate drastically.  The proposed use of gas will reduce dramatically
the winter concentrations of S02 and soot and only a limited area would be
exposed to winter average concentrations as high as 50 .ug/m3. This area
would probably experience 6 days during winter on which the Serbian standard
of 150,Ag/m3 is exceeded, and one day on which the US Primary Standard of
365 Alg/m3 is exceeded. The bulk of the population, however, would be in
areas in which the winter average concentration would be 30,ug/m3 and this
gives probabilities of 2 days per winter for levels in excess of the Serbian
standard. This level of air pollution can be considered tolerable for health
as expressed by the two air quality standards used.
4.25      The use of natural gas for heating will result in reducing inci-
dences of respiratory and cardio-vascular diseases, traffic congestion, main-
tenance and cleaning costs. Greater utilization of the city's airport and
outdoor recreational facilities will also result from a clean environment.
V. THE PROJECT ENTITY
SARAJEVO GAS ENTERPRISE (SGE)
A. Background
5.01      At present, there is no single entity responsible for the heating
of buildings in Sarajevo. In most buildings the apartment management commit-
tee has assumed responsibility and the operating expenses are collected from



- 17 -
the occupiers based on the area of the apartment. Because the operating
system has been unsatisfactory, the Sarajevo Housing Enterprise, which is
responsible for management and maintenance of a substantial number of the
buildings, has been gradually taking over the responsibility for heating.
5.02      In May 1975 the City Assembly established a new public service en-
terprise, Preduzece za Transport i Distributiciju Gasa Sarajevo (Sarajevo Gas
Enterprise) (SGE) to be responsible for construction and later operation of
the gas transmission line from Zvornik to Sarajevo and the gas distribution
system. SCE will contract with the Housing Enterprise and other entities
for operation of the central heating furnaces which will be controlled from
a central control station. Maintenance of the hot water systems within the
buildings will be the responsibility of the Sarajevo Housing Enterprise or
building occupants.
5.03      In accordance with Yugoslav law, SGE is an Organization of Asso-
ciated Labor which will carry out its activities with socially-owned resources.
In February 1976, the workers adopted Statutes for the management of the enter-
prise and these were approved by the City Assembly. The Statutes provide that
the SGE will be controlled during the construction stage by a Greater Workers'
Council consisting of representatives appointed by the City Assembly, the four
Communes and the workers. When SGE commences their services to consumers a
Self-Management Agreement will be adopted by the workers. Direct self-man-
agement will be implemented through meetings of the workers and by the elec-
tion of delegates to the Workers' Council.
5.04      SGE is an autonomous enterprise; however, because it is a public
service enterprise, decisiors on proposed tariff, construction programs, ap-
pointment of Director General and other matter must be approved by the City
Assembly.  In addition, the 1974 Federal Constitution has made provision for
the establishment of Self-Managing Communities of Interest, consisting of
representative of consumers and organizations providing public services, to
link the interests of these two parties. It is envisaged that these Communi-
ties of Interest will be established in Sarajevo in the near future and will
take over some of the functions of the City Assembly relating to SGE.  The
City Assembly will be represented on the Communities of Interest and will
have a constitutional responsihility for ensuring that decisions meet the needs
of the City.
5.05      SGE will be responsible for supervising the construction of the
proposed facilities with the assistance of consultants. A competent Director
General, two experienced engineers, an accountant and a legal officer have
already taken up duty. SGE will also recruit experienced heating engineers
presently employed with the Sarajevo Housing Enterprise.



- 18 -
B. Training
5.06      SGE will require extensive outside assistance for training of their
staff for operation and maintenance of the system. Consultants will also be
required to assist SGE in setting up an adequate organization structure and
operating procedures. A condition of effectiveness of the loan, is that SGE
has appointed consultants on terms of reference and conditions of contract
acceptable to the Bank to assist in preparing staffing plan, job specifica-
tions and training program and to provide training and operational assistance
during the initial years. The training program is to be submitted to the Bank
for comment within six months of the date of appointment of the consultant.
C. Audit
5.07      As with all Yugoslav enterprises, an annual audit of SGE's accounts
will be undertaken by the Social Accounting Service (SAS). The scope and
quality of SAS audit have previously been considered inadequate to meet the
Bank's normal audit requirements. Recently, however, a group of SAS auditors
has undertaken an intensive course and in-service training in modern auditing
techniques and this staff will be utilized to audit enterprises receiving
Bank funds. Sufficient qualified staff will not be available to audit all
Bank projects for some time. SGE has agreed to make arrangements with the
SAS special audit group or other auditors acceptable to the Bank to undertake
an annual audit of SGE's accounts of sufficient scope and quality to meet Bank
requirements and that the annual accounts and auditors' report will be sub-
mitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year commencing
with the financial statements for FY'76.
D. Insurance
5.08      Adequate provision for insurance has been made in the financial
forecasts of SGE. SGE has agreed to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers insurance against such risks and in such amount as shall be consis-
tent with sound practice.
E. Naftagas Gas Unit
5.09      Naftagas Gas Unit (NGU) is an autonomous Organization of Associated
Labor within the Naftagas Enterprise. It consists of several Basic Organiza-
tions of Associated Labor or operating units among which the Investment Center
is responsible for the preparation, execution and supervision of all capital



- 19 -
investments including the Project. Most of the delays experienced in carry-
ing out the Naftagas Pipeline Project (Loan 916-YU) have resulted from a
serious cost overrun and from complex administrative and institutional prob-
lems following the reorganization of Naftagas in 1973/74. The Gas Unit
recognizes the need for additional assistance to carry out its construction
program and has agreed to hire new consultants to provide project management
expertise.
5.10      Over the past two years, NGU's financial performance has been satis-
factory with NGU earning a rate of return on gross fixed assets of over 20%.
NGU has been successful in adjusting its tariffs to reflect higher cost and
changes in the relative price of imported oil and gas.
VI. FINANCE
A. Tariffs
6.01      The Sarajevo Housing Enterprise which is responsible for operation
of some of the central heating plants, establishes tariffs for customers on
the basis of the average cost of all units operated. Charges are apportioned
to householders based on floor area. The rationale for the present policy is
that the standard of insulation, cost of fuels used and efficiency of the
heating systems vary considerably and the average cost is the most equitable
method of charging. However, this system provides no incentive to a house-
holder to economize, as the effects of his heating costs will be negligible.
In addition, there is little pressure on the Housing Enterprise to replace
inefficient units or to improve poorly insulated buildings.
6.02      Responsibility for proposing gas tariffs will rest with SGE but all
tariffs must be approved by the City Assembly before implementation. In pre-
paring the financial projection, a flat rate of Din 2.33 per m3 in 1976 prices
was used to enable SGE to meet reasonable financial objectives. SGE has
agreed to engage consultants on terms of reference and conditions of contract
acceptable to the Bank, within nine months of the date of effectiveness of
the loan, to prepare tariff proposals which will meet the financial objec-
tives of SGE and ensure efficient resource allocation.  The consultant's pro-
posals will be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to implementation.
6.03      An agreement on a price formula for the purchase of gas by SGE has
not yet been made. The price used in the forecasts was the projected Naftagas
price for 1977 of Din 1.6 per m3 increased by 10% to provide compensation to
Energoinvest for accepting an interruptible supply. As the purchase of gas
is estimated to form about 90% of the operating costs, it is necessary that
tariffs are adjusted immediately to reflect changes in the purchase price of
gas. The City Assembly and SGE have agreed that in the event of an increase
in the purchase price of natural gas immediate steps shall be taken to reflect
such increases in the SGE tariffs for the sale of gas.



- 20 -
B. Future Performance
6.04      The financial forecasts for 1976-86 for SGE are in Annexes 7 through
10. Operating costs were escalated for estimated price increases of 16% for
1976, 13% for 1977, 10% for 1978 and 7% per annum thereafter. During the first
three years of operation, the transmission and distribution system will be
under-utilized as time will be required to convert furnaces and connect cus-
tomers.  The rate of return on average net fixed assets is forecast at about
4% in 1979-80 and about 10% in 1981.  With increased utilization of the sys-
tem, the rate of return will rise to about 17% in 1984.
6.05      A contribution to future capital expansion requirement is more in
line with the Yugoslav Socialist system than a rate of return concept. A
contribution requirement also provides an automatic adjustment against future
inflation. To provide a satisfactory contribution towards capital invest-
ment, SGE has agreed to set its tariffs for the sale of gas and charges for
other services provided at such levels as shall, after making provision for
increased working capital, provide revenues sufficient to finance (i) during
the two years 1979 and 1980 not less than 11% of the total cost of investment
during the five years 1976 through 1980 and (ii) commencing with the year
ending December 31, 1981 to finance each year not less than 35% of the aver-
age cost of investment during each consecutive three-year period comprising
one actual and two forecast years.
6.06      As SGE has no existing equity 1/ and since about 76% of the financial
requirement for the project construction period is provided by loans, the debt
equity ratio in 1980 of 82:18 is unfavorable. To meet the debt service and
the legal payments SGE requires a net surplus equivalent to about 10% on aver-
age net fixed assets. However, the forecasts indicate that debt equity ratio
would improve rapidly to 60:40 in 1985. The debt service coverage is 1.4 in
1981, improving to 2.2 in 1985. SGE has agreed that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SGE will not raise further loans unless its net cash gen-
eration before depreciation and interest exceed 1.5 times its debt service
in any future year, including debt service on the amount to be borrowed.
6.07      The Republic of BII' may establish a gas transmission enterprise to
serve the Republic and to take over the proposed transmission line Zvornik/
Sarajevo (para 2.05). SGE has agreed that should they decide to transfer the
Zvornik/Sarajevo transmission line to a new republic enterprise, such trans-
fer shall occur only under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, including
provisions for repayment of Bank funds invested in this transmission line.
1/   Although the concept of equity does not exist in Yugoslavia, it has been
used here as the best approximation to differentiate between the enter-
prises own funds and borrowings.



- 21 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Background
7.01      Air pollution in the Sarajevo area is high, by any accepted stand-
ard, and would continue to increase if nothing is done to control and reduce
emissions from heating systems, the main source of pollutants. Consultants
have undertaken a review of possible technical alternatives for solving the
air pollution problem using an air modeling technique to project the likely
effects of the use of alternative heating systems and/or fuels. The study
concluded that acceptable air quality standard requires the use of either
manufactured or natural gas.
7.02      Manufactured gas could be obtained from coal gasification plants
located on or nearby the Breza coal mines some 40 km northwest of Sarajevo,
while natural gas in sufficient quantities to meet the city's projected de-
mand until 1990 could be obtained from the NGU system under construction in
Serbia. The first alternative would require the construction of a coal
gasification plant and of minor transmission facilities while the second
alternative would require the construction of a 134 km transmission line to
link the city to the NGU system. Both alternatives would require the con-
struction of similar distribution facilities in the city and conversion of
existing central heating plants. The comparison of the net present value
(NPV) of the cost of the two alternatives, discounted at 10%, 15% and 20%
over a period of 20 years, show that the NPV of the natural gas alternative
is lower than the NPV of the manufactured gas alternative by US$52.0, 48.0,
and 43.0 millions respectively (Annex 11).
B. Benefits
7.03      The long-term marginal cost of gas supply, estimated on the basis
of the CIF cost for imported gas from the USSR 1/, is Din 3.0/10,000 Kcal
(Din 2.58/m3), at a discount rate of 15%. On this basis, the cost of heating
an average residential unit with gas would increase by 11% from the present
estimated cost of Din 54.0/m2. Consequently, the net annual cost, in constant
prices, to the city of controlling air pollution through the supply of natural
gas would be about Din 64.0 million (US$3.8 million) by 1985 or US$9.2 per
capita per annum.
1/   The CIF cost of gas is linked to the price of crude oil and fuel oil by
an escalation formula. It is therefore not expected that the existing
relationship between gas prices (CIF) and hydrocarbons prices would vary
considerably in the future.



- 22 -
7.04      For the above modest cost, there are numerous benefits which would
result from this project. The elimination of pollution will result in
reducing incidences of respiratory and cardio-vascular diseases, traffic
congestion, maintenance and cleaning costs. Greater utilization of outdoor
recreational facilities should also be achieved. These health and environmental
benefits are difficult to quantify. However, it can be reasonably assumed that
the general improvement of the environment will prolong life expectancy and re-
sult in lower medical costs per capita, lower absenteeism, improved productivity
and an improvement of the quality of life for the residents and tourists of
Sarajevo.
7.05      In order to ensure optimum utilization of the gas supply and dis-
courage wastage, it is essential to establish a tariff structure which re-
flects the economic cost of providing the gas. If the price of gas is fixed
at a level which approximates the long run marginal cost of supplv, increments
in the consumption of gas will be valued by consumers at least as much as the
resources consumed in providing those increments and a better efficiency in
resource allocation will be attained. SCE's proposed tariff study (para 6.02)
is intended to determine an appropriate tariff structure to achieve these
objectives. A summary terms of reference for the tariff study is in Annex II.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to in
Chapters II, IV, V, and VI and subject to the conditions of effectiveness de-
scribed in paras 2.04, 2.06. 4.03, 4.11, 4.12, and 5.06 the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$38.0 million; US$27.0 million to Preduzece za Transport
i Distribuciju Gasa-Sarajevo (SGE) and US$11.0 million to "Naftagas" Kombinat
Naftne Industrije "Gas'? Radna Organizacija Transporta Prerade Primene i Prometa
Gasa - sa solidarnom odgovornoscu Novi Sad (NGU). In view of the project con-
struction periods, an appropriate term for the SGE loan is 25 years including
5 years of grace and for the NGU loan 20 years including 3 years of grace.
May 11, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
THE CITY AND ITS ORGANIZATION
Background
1.        Sarajevo is the capital of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(BIlI), one of the constituent Republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The city is located along the banks of the Miljacka River, a
tributary of the Bosna River. Small settlements within the city are located
along the banks of the Zeljeznica and Josanica Rivers, also tributaries of
the Bosna River. The altitude of the urban area varies between 480 and 720
meters above sea level (m.a.s.l.). A peak elevation of 1,630 m.a.s.l. marks
the highest point of the city's recreational area. The city has a continental
climate characterized by hot summers, severe winters and large diurnal tem-
perature differences.
2.        The earliest traces of organized settlement in the Sarajevo region
reach back to the Neolithic period. The city developed as a military and
administrative center within the Ottoman Empire and its physiognomy was
strongly influenced by its Turkish rulers. In 1878, Turkish power was re-
placed by the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. During the Hapsburgs forty years
rule, the present commercial center of the city was constructed. Sarajevo's
name became a milestone in history when the Crown Prince, Archduke Francis
Ferdinand, was assassinated in the city on June 28, 1914. The economic devel-
opment of the city was dormant in the inter-war years. But in the post-war
period a dramatic expansion of the city took place and an extensive area of
high-rise apartment blocks were constructed in the Western suburbs of the city.
3.        Sarajevo is the economic center of BIB; one of the less developed
Republic of Yugoslavia. The city accounts for the largest segment of the
Republic's economy but lags behind other Yugoslav urban centers in develop-
ment. Large-scale migration from the underdeveloped surrounding areas took
place in the post-war period and the city's population increased threefold
to over 300,000 during the last thirty years. In spite of substantial
investment in the infra- and super-structures of the city, it did not keep
pace with its growth and Sarajevo, in common with other rapidly developed
urban centers, is faced with problems of severe housing shortage, overstrained
public utility services, traffic congestion and water and air pollution.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
The Communes and the City
4.        Under the Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugo-
slavia, the basic unit of local government is the commune. Communes in large
urban areas may form special social-political communities entrusted with
specific rights and duties normally held by communes. There are four communes
in Sarajevo (Centar - the original old city, Novo Sarajevo, Ilidza, and Vogosca).
They have established the social-political community of the city. The sta-
tutes of the city, which are agreed by each of the communes, define the rights
and duties of the city government. Only those rights and duties pertaining to
the common interest of all the communes are given to the city and rights and
duties not specifically given are retained by the communes.
5.        The city has been empowered to govern the Sarajevo urban area,
raise revenue through taxes, duties and other fees, maintain public services,
and plan the future development of the city. The communes retain coordinating
rights regarding the future development of the city and the allocation of bud-
geted resources. Investment funds are centralized in the city and allocated
to communes for projects wholly within a commune or to the city budget for
inter-communal projects.
6.        Although the communes have given to the city major powers for
governing the urban area, there is close coordination between the communes
and the city. Communes may initiate legislation at the city level on matters
over which they have constitutional authority, and most legislation prepared
for the city is coordinated with the communes. Issues on which the city and
the communes cannot agree are referred back to the workers and citizens of
the urban area.
Organization of the City Government
7.        The City Assembly (or Skupstina Grada) is the central authority of
the city (see attached organization chart). It is the city's legislative
body and is composed of delegates from social sector work organizations (about
one delegate per one thousand workers), private sector workers, citizens iden-
tified by regional areas and political bodies such as the League of Communists
and trade union groups. Delegates serve only at the pleasure of their consti-
tuents and may be recalled at any time. The commune assemblies are organized
along similar lines and elections for both are held simultaneously.
8.        The day to day functions of the city government are carried out by
six Secretariats. The Secretariats and their responsibilities are as follows:
(i) Internal Affairs: Internal security such as police and fire
protection,
(ii) National Defense: Coordination with national security efforts,
(iii) Inspections: Insures compliance with established standards
such as building codes, health requirements and so on,



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5 pages
(iv) Economic and Finance: In cooperation with work organizations.
plans and carries out the economic development of the city;
oversees the activities of public service organizations; and
prepares budget and tax policy,
(v) Social Activities: Educational, scientific and cultural
activities, and
(vi) General Affairs: Building maintenance, city personnel manage-
ment and execution of the budget (accounting, payroll).
The executive organ of the city government is an Executive Board responsible
to the City Assembly. The Executive Board is composed of the President and
Vice President of the Assembly, the secretary of each Secretariat, and two
members elected by the delegates of the City Assembly. The Executive Board
carries out the decisions of the Assembly and prepares all legislation going
to the City Assembly for approval.
9.        There are two types of special organizations, outside the Secretariats,
which report directly to the City Assembly through the Executive Board. One
type is commissions, composed of citizens and government officials, which serve
as special advisors on specific problem areas of interest to all citizens of
the city. Among the ten commissions is one for environment. It serves as a
special advisor to the City Assembly on general questions of environmental
protection and improvement.
10.       The other type of organization reporting directly to the City
Assembly is institutes created to oversee the future development of the city.
There are institutes for economic research, area planning, and construction
of the city. The Institute for the Construction of the City provides for and
oversees the physical development of the urban area. It coordinates all city
construction programs and functions as the investor in development projects
on behalf of the city. It has been established as a self-financing institute
whose revenues are derived from its function as a land developer--it buys and
sells land, including in the selling price the cost of needed infrastructure
plus one percent for the institute's operational requirements.
The City and the Public Service Enterprise
11.       Work organizations which offer public services are under control of
the city government. Yugoslav law provides that the means of production are
owned by society as a whole but they are entrusted through the system of self-
management to the control of the workers that use them. When work organiza-
tions provide public services such as education, public utilities, public
transport, health, welfare and so on, local govermnents share control of these
activities with the workers. In Sarajevo the measure of control is specific-
ally provided for in the statutes of the city. The city has the right to:



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
(i) approve the working statutes of the work organization;
(ii)  review work programs and plans and approve activities
financed by the city;
(iii) approve changes in the functions or organization of the
working organization;
(iv)  approve the appointment of the manager or managing body;
(v) approve the creation of any new public service enterprise;
and
(vi)  approve tariffs set for the sale of services.
The public service work organizations are obliged to:
(i) provide continuous and lasting services and, in case of failure
to do so, compensate the consumers for damages incurred by the
lack of service;
(ii)  plan the future expansion of services in accordance with the
general development plans of the city;
(iii) provide for public scrutiny of work performed and proposed
programs and projects, and
(iv)  maintain and improve the quality of services provided.
12.       Over the next few years, some of the regulatory powers currently
vested in the city will be transferred to Communities of Interest.  These
communities will be established by self-management agreement among the work
organizations providing services and the consumers of those services. The
self-management agreements will provide for the regulation of the activities
of the public service work organizations, the establishment of tariffs, and
the planning and financing of future expansion. Establishment of the
Communities of Interest will diminish the role of government in the social
and economic affairs of the community. However, the City Assembly will retain
ultimate authority over the activities delegated.
May 1976



CITY ASSEMBLY OF SARAJEVO
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
COMMUNE ASSEMBLIES
CENTAR           NOVO SARAJEVO             ILIDZA              VOGOSCA
COMMISSIONS                                                                                             INSTITUTES
_ _ _ _                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONOMIC RESEARCH1
ENVIRONMENT                                       CITY ASSEMBLY                                      _                  J
EXECUTIVE BOARD
9 OTHERS                                   l                    l                              l    CONSTRUCTION
_________________                                ~~~~~~~~OF  THE  CITY
SECRETARIATS
TENl AFF  ~      10N~l DEFEN         INSPECTION             ECONOMIC &           SOCIAL                GENERAL
| INTERNAL AFFAIRS | ANATIONAL DEFENSE | t   INSPECTION    l l    FINANCE                ACTIVITIES            AFFAIRS
May 1976                                                                                                         World Bank-9794
UrL
(D
co



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 11 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
AIR POLLUTION SITUATION AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS
Background
1.        The City of Sarajevo has severe and growing air pollution that
results from a combination of historical and natural factors. A large popula-
tion relies for heating and domestic purposes on local fuels which have a high
sulfur content. The combustion methods used produce abundant emissions of
S02 and particulates (soot). The valley location and climate combine to
inhibit dilution and transport of the pollutants, particularly in the winter
months, when frequent air stagnation occurs in the city area. High concentra-
tions of pollutants occur almost daily in the winter season, and become
specially severe when stagnant conditions persist.
Topography
2.        The city of Sarajevo, with a population of more than 300,000 is
located in the valley of the Miljacka River about 500-700 m.a.s.l. The valley
is relatively deep and extends westward toward the plain. The valley is nar-
row at its eastern end; the northern and southern slopes rise as steeply
as 200 meters per kilometer providing natural barriers that fostered high
urban density. This part of this valley is oriented approximately east-west.
Ilowewer, many of the major topographical features surrounding the city have a
northwest-southeast orientation. This mountain-valley terrain influences
atmosphere stabilities, by providing a sheltered basin into which cold air
can flow at night and causes extremely stable stratification in the lowest
layers.
Climate
3.        The region is cold in winter with frequent keen frosts and a January
mean below 0°C.  But summer is hot; the July mean in the valley exceeding
22°. One of the most important climate characteristics of Sarajevo, from
the air pollution standpoint, is the high incidence of light winds. On an
annual basis, about 74Y of the valley winds are less than 2 m/s in the early
morning. Light winds are less frequent during the afternoon and evening.
With this high frequency of light winds the occurrences of stagnation con-
ditions are quite common with little fresh air available to dilute emissions.
With the light winds the pollutants tend to travel along the areas of the
valley, sometimes reversing their direction between morning and afternoon.
In wintertime, very light winds may prevail for extended periods of time so
that large volumes of pollution may be added to very small volumes of air,
with resulting high concentrations.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 11 pages
4.        Another climatic phenomenon in Sarajevo is the frequent occur-
rence of inversions 1/ particularly during winter mornings and evenings.
Winter observations show that more than half the inversions are 20 to 40 m
thick and would inhibit upward mixing of pollutants even from very tall stacks.
Present Heating Systems and Pollutant Levels
5.        The heating systems in use in Sarajevo are diverse in type and size
and burn a variety of fuel ranging from wood, lignite coal, coke, fuel oil,
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) and electricity. Most of the commercial build-
ings are centrally heated, while a large section of the residential buildings
are heated by individual appliances. There are about 320 central heating
plants, of which 70% are coal fired, the remainder being divided between
light and heavy fuel oil in about equal ratios.
6.        At present, the average heating season spreads from October to May
with an average of 204 days. Heating standards however are rather low.
Centrally heated buildings regulations provide for heating to start when the
outside temperature falls below 12°C; it is very likely however, that these
regulations are not strictly enforced; there are no such regulations for
buildings heated by individual appliances and consumption records indicate
that heating starts when the outside temperature drops below 14 to 15°C. The
hourly peak energy demand for residential purposes in an average year occurs
in December and/or January and was estimated at 65 Ton Oil Equivalent (TOE) in
1973 of which about 85% was for heating purposes.
1973 Estimated Hourly Peak Demand for Energy
TOE        %
A.   Heating
Central heating requirements
Apartment Buildings                      13.0         20
Public Buildings                         19.5         30
Sub-total                     32.5         50
Individual heating requirements               20.0         30
Industrial requirements                        3.0          5
Sub-total, heating            55-5         85
B.   Non-heating
Residential and commercial                     5.0          8
Industrial                                     4.5          7
Sub-total                      9.5         15
TOTAL                         65.0        100
1/   A layer of air of increasing temperature with height above a layer where
temperature decreases with height.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 11 pages
7.        The total energy consumption of the city was about 165,000 TOE in
1973, of which 50% was fuel oil, 30% lignite coal and 20% electricity and LPG.
Of this about 125,000 TOE (25.5 TOE/Hour) was for heating, showing an average
capacity utilization of about 46% during the heating season.
8.        Annual heating costs average Din 2,450 for a standard housing unit;
however, heating costs vary substantially according to the type of fuel from
a low of Din 1,700 for coal to a high of Din 3,700 for light fuel oil. Heat-
ing costs in commercial and administrative buildings average Din 115 and
Din 64 per sq. m. respectively for building heated individually and centrally
(Table 1).
9.        Existing heating systems do not provide for complete and clean com-
bustion of fuels and produce abundant emissions of Sulfur Dioxide (S02) and
particulates (soot) which, because of the particular climatic conditions
stagnate over the city area. Studies carried out by Stanford Research
Institute (SRI), U.S.A. show that the highest emission rates are in the center
of the city and an adjacent area of extensive multistory apartment buildings.
10.       High concentrations of pollutants occur almost daily in the winter
season and reach dangerous levels when stagnant conditions persists. Average
24-hour concentrations of S02 in excess of 1,500 ,ug/m3 and of soot in excess
of 1,000oug/m3 have been recorded recently by several sampling stations. Fur-
thermore, the population in the center of Sarajevo are exposed to average
winter concentrations of about 600,ug/m3 and almost 50% of the total popula-
tion is regularly exposed to wintertime concentrations of S02 in excess of
200,ug/m3, a level that can cause adverse health effects. By 1985, if no
controls are applied, this proportion would increase to about 70% of the
projected population and the total number of people so exposed would be
greater than the current population. In addition, a substantial number of
people in the area of highest average concentration would be exposed to
average winter concentrations of about 800,ug/m3.
11.       The above mentioned concentrations of S02 and soot appear even more
alarming when compared to the '"Standards" of Serbia, USSR and USA (Table 3).
It is quite possible for an area to have a rather modest average concentration
of a given pollutant, but still be subjected to occasional concentrations at
high and unacceptable levels. In Sarajevo, the "Standards" are exceeded many
times per year at several of the sampling stations. For instance the USA
primary standard for S02 (365,&ug/m3 average 24-hour once a year) is exceeded
more than 70 days per year. The more stringent standards of Serbia (150,ug/m3
average 24-hour once a year), which is adopted by the city, are exceeded about
half the days of year at most areas and about 60 days per year at the cleanest
of the sampling sites. The situation for soot is very much the same as S02.
Oxides of nitrogen were also measured on three winter days during January 1974
and concentrations as high as 960 ,ug/m3 were recorded. This is far in excess
of the California 1-hour average standard of 470,ug/m3 and in excess of values
used as standards elsewhere.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 11 pages
Health Effects
12.       The threat of air pollution to the general population is widely
recognized, however the multiplicity of variables involved make it difficult
to establish direct relationships between the level of pollution and the
general health of the population. It is generally accepted that no one pol-
lutant is responsible, by itself, for all observed effects, the total effects
appear to be the result of a combination of pollutants and other factors such
as weather and seasonal influences. In Sarajevo pollution appears to result
mostly from a combination of an inversion phenomena and heavy emissions of
sulfur oxides in particular. S02 is the principal pollutant emitted, but
once in the atmosphere it is partly converted into S03 and sulfuric acid
(H2S04) in the presence of moisture. Known effect of sulfur oxides are irri-
tation of the respiratory system and exposure to high concentration can affect
health. This effect has been observed in Sarajevo where it appears that
mortality rates from cardio-respiratory diseases increase substantially follow-
ing the occurrence of high concentrations of S02 and soot (Chart 9812). Avail-
able records also suggest that worker absenteeism and respiratory diseases of
school children are most frequent and severe during periods of high pollution.
13.       Studies on air pollution and on the effect of high S02 concentration
show that frequent exposures to concentrations ranging from 120 to 600 ug/m3
increase the frequency and severity of respiratory diseases (bronchitis,
lung cancer, etc.) while exposure to concentrations of 600Iug/m3 and above
increase the daily mortality rate particularly of older persons. Such con-
centrations are frequently observed in the central area of the city and are
likely to be more frequent as the population grows. It is projected that if
nothing is done to improve the present situation, a large part of the popula-
tion would be exposed to concentrations of pollutants three times higher than
the present level by 1985.
Current Efforts to Reduce Air Pollution
14.       Until mid-1972 little was done to bring pollution under control and
eventually reduce it to acceptable levels. In June 1972 the City Assembly
passed a resolution recognizing the dangers of excessive air pollution and
setting up rules and regulations limiting the use of highly polluting fuels
by area according to the level of pollution and prescribing the use of "clean
fuels" in the most polluted part of the city. Details are given in Table 2.
The decision assigns responsibilities to various public agencies for enforcing
the rules and defines penalties to be applied if the regulations are not fol-
lowed. The efforts of the city to promote the use of cleaner fuels, control
the quality of appliances, monitor air quality, etc. all represent steps
towards an improvement of the present situation but it would not result in the
eradication of the city's air pollution problems unless more drastic steps are
taken. For this purpose the city has commissioned SRI to study several alter-
natives to achieve satisfactory levels of pollution by 1985.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11 pages
15.       SRI has used climatical display model (CDM) 1/ to calculate seasonal
and annual average pollutant concentrations under a number of alternatives.
The model Is based on the fundamental assumption that the steady state spatial
distribution of concentration of pollutants from a continuously emitting point
is given by the Gaussian plume formula. A distinction is made between the
size of individual sources and uses average emissions inventory. With this
model it is possible to forecast the results of various alternative courses
of action and the consequences of anticipated growth under various assumptions
(Table 4).
Alternative heating systems considered to reduce air pollution
(i) Use of light fuel oil and smokeless fuel
16.       This alternative consists basically of enforcement of the City
Assembly's decision of 1972. It would use coke from the nearby Kreka mine
and would require expanding the mine production capacity by about 40% over the
next three years and adding briquetting and coking facilities. This solution
would result in a substantial improvement of the current situation, however
concentrations of S02 in excess of 125,ug/m3 would continue to apply to the
total area of the present city which contains the bulk of the population.
Sarajevo's standards on S02 concentration would likely be exceeded 50% of the
time during the winter season (Table 4). Conversion costs would be low but
administrative control on the use of fuels of adequate quality would be cum-
bersore.
(ii)  Use of a combined coal fired generating and central heating ._ant
17.       This alternative consists in the construction of a power plant of
75 to 110 MW and of a heat generating plant and hot water distribution systems.
The first stage would be on stream by 1978 and would be expanded subsequently
to accommodate the growth in heating demand. While supplying hot water to
centrally heated buildings, it would also supply electricity at competitive
costs. The plants would be located in the city (at the site of the former city
gas works) and would provide hot water at 150°C (302°F) to heating substations
through an underground distribution system serving about 50% of the total po-
tential consumers. Since this system will not be suitable to serve individual
houses in remote areas the remainder of the customers would use smokeless fuels
as in the first alternative. While the level of emission from the plant would
generally be within acceptable limits, it would remain high and could lead to
very high pollutant concentration levels in the hill areas surrounding the
city. Furthermore, extremely high concentration of pollutants could prevail
in a limited area near the plant during periods of inversion.
1/   This model is available in the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) and has been applied to St. Louis (Missouri) and Ankara
(Turkey).



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 11 pages
(iii)  Coal gasification and manufactured gas distribution system
18.       Since BIH is rich in lignite and brown coal. this alternative con-
siders the production of "town gas" at the mine and its transmission and dis-
tribution to the city. The gasification process would be based on the Lurgi
process that has been used extensively in Europe prior to the introduction of
natural gas. The plant would be sized to meet the peak demand and would be
located some 20 kilometers northwest of Sarajevo on the Breza mine that has
sufficient reserves (50 Years) to meet the current demand and Sarajevo's needs.
The plant would produce gas at about 3,825 Kcal/Nm3 (430 BTU/cft), sulphur
free that would be transmitted to the city by a 24t pipeline and delivered at
a pressure of 15 atmosphere at the city gate (220 psi). It would there be
distributed to consumers through a grid of about 200 km of pipes of various
size.
19.       This alternative would satisfy the most stringent requirements
regarding pollution levels. However, it would require heavy initial capital
outlay and the operation and maintenance of rather sophisticated equipment
that would require highly specialized personnel who are not presently avail-
able in Yugoslavia. This plant could at a later stage be converted into a
Substitute Natural Gas plant (SNG) by adding methanisation units. However,
the first plants, using this technology, are at present under construction and
it will be some time before operating experience is available. It was there-
fore considered that SNG could provide a solution for the long run but was not
viable at present.
(iv) Use of natural gas
20.       This alternative is basically the same as the previous one only
natural gas would replace "town gas" and a pipeline linking Sarajevo to a
natural gas supply source would replace the coal gasification plant. The
advantages of the natural gas alternative are twofold, since the heating value
of natural gas is almost double that of town gas the size of the distribution
and transmission facilities could be smaller and it would be possible to find
interruptible loads on the supply route that would eliminate the seasonal
fluctuations caused by heating requirements during the winter months. The
system could also use SNG if it becomes available in future.
(v) Oil-Fired Central Heating Plant and Hot Water Distribution
21.       This alternative would result in air pollution levels exceeding the
Serbian standards for S02 25 days in the 90 day winter period and the USA
primary standards 7 days in the same period. Furthermore, this alternative
could result in extremely high concentrations of pollutants near the plant, as
in the case of the coal fired power plant (alternative ii).
22.       The use of electricity from the Republic grid for heating purposes
in Sarajevo is not a possible alternative because of the present electricity
shortages and the relatively high cost.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 11 pages
Table 1: 1973 HEATING SITUATION
Number of    Equivalent   Cost per
Dwellings  area in sq. m   sq. m    Total Cost
(000)         Din     Din (000)
I. Individually heated
Buildings
Coal                     34,200         1,540           38.0     58,520
Wood                      1,060            50           39.5       1,975
Fuel Oil                 20,240           910           82.0      74,630
L.P.G.                      500            25           64.0       1,600
Electricity               5,000           225           55.0      12,375
Unknown /1               15,000           675           54.0      36,450
Subtotal           76,000          3,425          54.0    185,550
II. Housing Company
Centrally Heated
Buildings (coal and oil)
Apartments               14,500           725           50.0      36,250
Offices                   n.a.             65           90.0       5,850
Subtotal           14,500            790          53.0      42,100
III. Commercial and
Government Buildings
without Central Heating
Coal                      n.a./2            75          68.0       5,100
Oil                       n.a.             120         148.0      17,750
LPG                       n.a.              10         115.0       1,150
Electricity               n.a.             40          100.0       4,000
Subtotal            n.a.             245         114.5      28.000
IV. Commercial and
Government Buildings
Centrally Heated
Coal and oil              n.a.          1,125           90.0    101,250
Total              90,500          5,585          64.0    356,900
/1   This number was estimated on the basis of a survey carried out by the
city, since the type of fuel used was not available the cost of heating
was estimated on the same mix as other individually heated buildings.
/2   n.a. means not available.
Source: City of Sarajevo revised by mission.
May 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 11 pages
Table 2: SUMMARY OF REGULATIONS RELATING TO HEATING FUELS
IN SARAJEVO
Decision                                        Comments
1)   Use of minimum grain size for              Applies to all areas, and aims
coal and storage of adequate               reducing the emission of dust and
quantity and quality of coal               roots
2)   Limiting the sulfur contents               Applies to the "very endangered
of fuels between December and              area (old part of the city)" and
February                                   limits sulphur contents of fuels
to:
26g/10,00OKcal for lignite
33g/10,00OKcal for coal
1.7% for fuel oil in Central
Heating unit
1% for fuel oil in indi-
vidual appliances
3)   Standards for appliances                   Applies to all areas.
May 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 11 pages
Table 3: SELECTFD SULFUR DIOXIDE (S02) AND
SUSPENDED PARTICULATES (SOOT) STANDARDS
Country                Pollutant       Standard /1         Reference
(ug /m3)
SERBIA                 S02                 150       Serbia official Gazette 1973
USSR                    Ir                 150       US National Air Pollution
Control Administration
(NAPCA) (1970)
USA
Primary Standard                        365        California Air
Resource Board (ARB)
Secondary Standard   1                  260        1972
California                              105
SERBIA                 Soot                30        Serbia official Gazette 1973
USSR                   Suspended          150        US NAPCA 1970
particulates
USA
Primary Standard      "                 260        ARB 1972
Secondary Standard   "                  150
California            "                 100
/1   24-hours average once a year.
May 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 11 pages
Table 4: PROJECTED POLLUTION LEVELS OF THE VARIOUS
ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED TO REDUCE AIR POLLUTION IN SARAJEVO
Resulting Pollution
Levels in Winter
Probable number of
days on which
% of Consumers  Average S02        standards would be
which could be  Concentration   exceeded/i
No.     Alternatives            supplied          1985            US        Serbian
,ug/m3        standard/2  standard/2
Present Situation                              400/3           50          68
1.  1985 situation with-
out corrective action                        800              51          74
2.  1985 situation accord-
ing to resolution
passed by City
Assembly/4                                    600             42          68
3.  Use of light fuel
oil and smokeless fuel        100             275             20          45
4.  Central power-heating
plant:
without scrubbing          50-60            150              9          27
with scrubbing                             240               7          25
5.  Coal gasification
and distribution            80-100             50              1           6
6.  Natural gas trans-
mission and distri-
bution                      80-100             50              1           6
7.  Oil fired central
heating plant                   50            140              7          25
/1  These figures relate only to the 90-day winter period (Dec.-Feb.) Annual
number of days would considerably exceed these as heating is usually
required from October to May.
/2 US standards are 365 Aug/m3 and Serbian (USSR) standards are 150,ug/m3.
/3  Average concentration 1973.
/4  The resolution still allows some heavy fuel oil to be used in certain areas.
Source: Stanford Research Institute (SRI) adjusted by mission.
May 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 11 pages
MORTALITY FROM CARDIORESPIRATORY DISEASE AND AIR POLLUTANT
CONCENTRATIONS, JANUARY 1-31, 1967
l               l           l          l           l          I
3.0                                                    Conc. SO2                15
2.8 _                                             -  - Conc. Soot               14
CsT
E  26                                                                              13
D  2.4                                                                           - 12
r2      1        5          1                                                       11
2.-
2.0 1610
o1.8                         F11I                                              -      -
<1.6                                                                              7 -
o    1.2                          I6
0~~~~~~~~~
z
0.6    - 
0 2     '.0
1        5          10          15         20         25          30
DAYS
Source:   Publication "Current Problems of  Sarajevo"                         World Bank 9812
May 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
1.        The proposed project aims at abating the air pollution in the Sarajevo
area. The severe air pollution problems of Sarajevo, largely attributed to
the burning of coal, wood and oil for heating purposes, will be abated by
providing a pollution free natural gas supply. The project components were
selected from among several alternatives as the least cost solution to meet
the projected requirements. Cost estimates are provided in Annex 4 and con-
struction schedule in Annex 5.
Natural Gas Supply
2.        The comparison of the various alternatives to bring Sarajevo's
air pollution down to acceptable standards by 1985 shows that the use of
natural gas would be the least cost solution (Annex 2). Natural gas is not
available, so far, in BIH and is not expected to be before 1980 when natural
gas could be imported from abroad through a transmission system presently under
consideration. Natural gas however is available in Serbia where NGU is pres-
ently constructing a large transmission and distribution system which is
being partly financed by the Bank (Loan 916 YU). This system would among
other things provide up to 320 million m3/year of gas to the Zvornik aluminum
plant, located in BIH, starting in 1977.
3.        Since Sarajevo's gas requirements are seasonal (80% of the gas
demand would occur during the winter season), Sarajevo has signed a contract
with NGU and Energoinvest, the owner of the Zvornik plant, whereby Zvornik
agrees to operate on a dual fuel basis using fuel oil during the winter and
gas during the summer months. These arrangements will enable Zvornik to
provide up to 30 million m3 per month to Sarajevo during the winter without
the city having to pay for the cost of seasonal fluctuations to NGU. These
volumes would be sufficient to meet Sarajevo's demand until 1990 except for
short-term peak requirements. The contract provides for NWzU to make these
additional requirements available.
Present and future Potential as Demand at_Sarajevo
4.        The survey of existing energy consumption in Sarajevo shows that
in 1973 net energy demand for residential purposes (space and water heating
and cooking) was about 1,500 109 Kcal (or 150,000 TOE) of which heating con-
sumption accounted for about 80%. Peak requirements were about 600 Gcal/
hour and demand for commercial, industrial and public buildings and for apart-
ment buildings accounted-for 38% and 62% of total demand respectively. Accord-
ing to city authorities total demand for residential purposes is expected to



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6 pages
grow up to about 2,140 109 Kcal (214,000 TOE) by 1985 at an average rate of
about 3% p.a., peak demand would grow at an average rate of 4% p.a. reaching
1,200 Gcal in 1985 (Table 1). These projections are in line with demand
figures observed in other European countries under similar climatic conditions
and are considered reasonable.
5.        City authorities consider that about 65% of the total demand could
be adequately converted to natural gas when it becomes available, the re-
mainder would be divided between electricity, LPG and other solid and liquid
clean fuels (coke, low sulfur fuel oil . . . etc.). It is planned that this
could be achieved by 1985, assuming natural gas is available to Sarajevo
by the end of 1978 at the earliest. This target is reasonable. On the basis
of the City's projection total potential gas demand would increase from about
1,140 109 Kcal (160 million m3 of gas) in 1978 to 1,390 109 Kcal (195 million
m3 of gas) in 1985. Table 2 gives details on the projected demand for energy
and gas respectively and Table 3 gives the projected monthly schedules of
delivery to Zvornik and Sarajevo.
The Natural Gas System
6.        City authorities, with the assistance of local and foreign con-
sultants have prepared a program for transmission of natural gas from Zvornik
to Sarajevo, distribution of gas within the city and conversion of existing
central heating plants and individual appliances. The objective of the
program is to connect about 65% of all potential consumers to the gas dis-
tribution system and thus reduce air pollution down to acceptable levels
(Annex 2). The program includes construction of a gas transmission line from
Zvornik to Sarajevo, distribution facilities within the city, including the
connection of consumers to service lines and the conversion of central heating
plants from solid and liquid fuels to gas. Detailed description of the pro-
posed gas transmission and distribution facilities is given in the following
paragraphs and are shown on IBRD Maps 11460R and 118504
Gas Transmission
7.        A transmission line, 265 km long, 16" in diameter, would be con-
structed to link the city of Sarajevo to the NGU system at Batajnica . The
line would have an initial maximum capacity of 125,000 m3/h which could be
raised subsequently to about 200,000 m3/h by adding pumping facilities. The
Batajnica-Zvornik portion of this line (134 km) was part of the original NGU
pipeline project and will be built and operated under NGU's supervision.
Gas Compression
8.        Two compressors located at Batainica and Loznica, with a combined
power of about 4,000 HP will be built to boost the pressure of the gas in the
transmission line up to 50 atmospheres/cm2.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6 pages
Sarajevo City Gate Station
9.        The transmission line will reach Sarajevo at a city gate station,
which would regulate the gas flow and reduce the pressure for input in the
main distribution lines. The city gate would be located on the site of the
former gas works and would include all metering and controlling equipment in
a centralized control room. The initial capacity would be 125,000 m3/h and
could be expanded by the addition of new metering lines.
Distribution System
10.       The proposed distribution system would include:
(i) Two main high pressure loops around the city, 20 km long
and 16" in diameter.
(ii) About fifty pressure regulating and reducing stations in the
4,000-10,000 m3/hour range, feeding gas into the service lines.
(iii) About 160 km of service lines.
(iv) About 10,000 service connections.
Conversion. The project will also cover conversion of about 300 central
heating plants.
Telemetry and Control System
i1.       This system will include pressure control at each pressure reducing
station, and transmission of essential operating data to a central control
center located at the site of the city gate station.
Technical Assistance and Training
12.       Since SCE has no previous experience in gas transmission and dis-
tribution, the project will also include technical assistance and training.
Technical assistance will be required for preparing detailed design, optimiz-
ing the various components of the system, preparing tender documents and
supervising construction. Consultants will also be employed to assist SGE
in organizing the new enterprise and in establishing tariffs. Training will
be required for SGE personnel in operation, maintenance and administration.
It is SGE's intention to carry part of the training (mostly technical) on
the job and to use the services of specialized consultants for the remainder.
May 1976



ANNEX 3
Page h of 6 pages
TABLE 1
Total Energy Demand Schedule 1973 and 1985
(109 Kcal)
1973                             1985-
Total           Heating           Total           Heating
Requirements    Requirements    Requirements    Requirements
I.   Housing
Individually heated           760              600             1,100             890
Centrally heated              175              1h5               255            215
Sub-total                935              745            1,355           1,105
tiL.   Commercial, Government and Industrial Buildings
Individually heated            90               80               1h0             120
Centrally heated              485              430               6h5            570
Sub-total                575              510               785            690
Total                  1,510           1,255             2,140           1.795
Source: Borrower's estimates adjusted by mission
May 1976



ANNEX 3
Page ! of 6 pages
TABLE 2
Potential Gas Demand 1973 - 1985
Total Energy2/              Potential Gas              Projected Gas
Year           Demand                       Demand                     Sales
109 Kcal          109 Kca1          million m3         million m3
1973            1,510                980              135                 -
1974            1,560              1,015              1h0                -
1975                               l,oh5              145                -
1976            1,655              1,075              150                _
1977            1,700              1,105              155                -
19781'          1,755              1,140              160                 _
1979            1,815              1,180              165                60
1980            1,870              1,215             170                 90
1981            1,985              1,250              175               130
1982            1,975              1,285              180               145
1983            2,030              1,320             185                165
198L            2,090              1,360              190               175
1985            2,1b0              1,390              195               185
1/ Net energy demand for residential purposes.
2/ Net potential gas demand estimated at 65% of (1).
First full year of operation.
Source: Borrower's projections revised by mission
May 1976 )



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6 pages
TABLE 3
Projected Monthly Schedule of Delivery Between
Zvornik and Sarajevo 1979 - 1985
Sarajevo's 
%                 im~~~122                            1985
of Annual
Months           Demand        Zvornik    Sarajevo    Total       Zvornik    Sarajevo    Total
January            20            15.0        12.0       27.0          -        40.0"        40.0
1/
February           15            18.0         9.0       27.0          -        30.0-        30.0
March              13            19.0         8.o       27.0          -        27.0         27.0
April               8            22.0         5.0       27.0        11.0       16.0         27.0
May                 -            25.0         2.0       27.0        23.0        4.0         27.0
June                -            26.0         1.0       27.0        24.0        3.0         27.0
July               10            26.0        1.0        27.0        24.0        3.0         27.0
Augist              -            26.0        1.0        27.0        24.0        3.0         27.0
,eptember           -            26.0         1.0       27.0        22.0        5.0         27.0
October             7            23.0         4.0       27.0        15.0       12.0         27.0
Novemler           10            21.0         6.o       27.0         7.0       20.0         27.0
December           17           17.8        10.0        27.0          -        32.01/       32.0
Trotal         100          26h.0        60.0       324.0       150.0      195.0        3h5.0
1/ Sarajevo's requirements exceed Zvornik contracted delivery.
Source: Mission's estimates
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Forecast Cost Estimates - January 1976
Pipes and Equipment              Installation and Civil Works                 Total Costs
L.C.       F.E.      Total            L.C.      F.E.      Total          L.C.       F.E.        Total
------------------------------------------------ Din '000 ---------------------------------------------
SGE Component
1.  Pipeline Zvornik-Sarajevo                       33,078     136,637    169,915         108,950    29,625    138,575       142,028    166,462      308,490
2. High Pressure Loop                                3,240      13,410      16,650         22,254     9,350     31,604        25,494      22,760      48,254
3. Distribution Grid                                 9,890       24,045     33,935         68,215    33,025    101,240         78,105     57,070      135,175
4.  Service Connections                             10,285       10,220     20,505         10,490    10,220     20,710         20,775     20,440      41,215
5.  Pressure Regulating Stations                     3,690       14,490     18,180          2,030     2,352      4,382          5,720     16,842       22,562
6.  Telecontrol                                      3,596        2,495      6,091          2,020     1,095      3,115          5,616      3,590       9,206
7.  Conversion of Heating Plants                     7,500       21,525     29,025          3,570     1,575      5,145         11,070     23,100      34,170
8.  Engineering Services                            30,506       25,494     56,000           -          -           -          30,506     25,494      56,000
Sub-Total                      io1L78. 248L_16   350, K1              217.529    87-242    304-771       319-314    335.758      655.072
10.  Physical Contingencies                          11,730      30,453     42,183          27,182    11,605     38,787         38,912     42,058      80,970
11.  Price Contingencies                             28,717       70,857     99,574         82,583    27,528    110,111        111,300     98,385     209,685
Total                          142,232     349,826    492,058         327,294   126,375    453,669       469,526    476,201      945,727
Naftagas Component
1.  Pipeline Batajnica-Zvornik                      24,300     108,972    133,272         105,894    21,600    127,494        133,194    130,572     260,766
2. Distribution Lines                                1,332        7,794      9,126          3,744       -        3,744          5,076      7,794       12,870
3. Compressor Stations                               4,014      23,634      27,648         10,008       -       10,008         14,022     23,634       37,656
4. Engineering                                      13,824          -       13,824            -         -           -          13,824        -         13,824
Sub-Total                       43,470     140,400    183,870         119,646    21,600    141,246        163,116    162,000     325,116
5.  Physical Contingencies                             889        4,068      4,957          7,085     1,512       8,597         7,974      5,580       13,554
6. Price Contingencies                               6,950       21,294     28,244         27,360     9,126      36,486        34,310     30,420       64,730
Total                           51,309     165,762    217,071         154,091    32,238    186,329        205,400    198,000     403,400
Total Project Cost                  193.541     515.588    709.129         481.385   158.613    639,998        674.926    674,201   1.349.127
Source: NGU, SGE Bank Mission
May 1976






APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
NAFTAGAS COMPONENT
Main Line                                     ssss             __               __ 
Compressor Stations                           gill
Distribution Lines
SGE COMPONENT
Transmission Line                             s  s   s__
Distribution Network
High Pressure Loop                         r s    svdl
Distribution Grid                          a I A I I s I I I I I I I I I I I I M A   __ W _  __   _-,                                    _
Regulation Stations                              I I a I I I I I I I I I I I I I  __ W.-| -
Conversion of Heating Plants                    5 gs             r    w      l          +     1;   r                1t-A
Telemetry System                                              1111                 I rrsss                      W. _  |  | tr_
Control & Administration Building                                                               W sssr    WA| _
s I samumuuuI umiuIllDesigns & Preparation of Tender Documents
Tendering, Contract Award
'------           WSupply, Installation or Construction
May 1976                                                                                                                             World Bank-15951






ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursemernts
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Cumulative Disbursements at end of Quarter
and Quarter                             SGE       NGU       Total
--------------- US$ Million --------------
1976/77
September 30, 1976                      -         -
December 31, 1976                      0.1       0.1        0.2
March 31, 1977                         1.0       0.4        1.4
June 30, 1977                          3.0       3.5        6.5
1977/78
September 30, 1977                     5.0       5.0       10.0
December 31, 1977                      8.0       7.0       15.0
March 31, 1978                        10.0       8.0       18.0
June 30, 1978                         12.0       9.0       21.0
1978/79
September 30, 1978                    14.0      10.0       24.0
December 31, 1978                     16.0      10.5       26.5
March 31, 1979                        18.0      10.8       28.8
June 30, 1979                         20.0      11.0       31.0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                    22.0      11.0       33.0
December 31, 1979                     24.0      11.0       35.0
March 31, 1980                        26.0      11.0       37.0
June 30, 1980                         27.0      11.0       38.0
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Sarajevo Gas Enterprise (SGE)
Income Statements for the Years 1979-1986
(Din Millions)
Year Ending December 31                1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985         1986
Gas Sales (million m3)                 60.0       90.0       130.0      145.0      165.0      175.0      185.0        195.0
Sales price (Din per m3)                3.1        3.3         3.6        3.7        4.0        4.3         4.6         4.9
Revenue
Sale of Gas                        186.0      297.0      468.0        536.5      660.0      752.5      851.0        955.5
Other Income                         2.7        3.4         4.1         4.7        5.3        5.8         6.5         7.2
Total Revenue                      188.7      300.4      472.1        541.2      665.3      758.3      857.5        962.7
Gas Purchases                      125.4      201.6      312.0        371.2      452.1      512.8      580.9        653.3
Wages and Salaries                  10.9        14.8       18.8        21.6       24.6       27.6        31.0        34.8
Maintenance                          4.2         4.9        6.2         9.5       11.0       13.0        16.0        21.2
Insurance                            5.0        5.9         6.4         6.8        7.3        7.8         8.3         8.8
Other Expenditure                    6.0         8.1       10.3        11.9       13.5       15.2       17.1         19.1
Total                              151.5      235.3       353.7       421.0      508.5      576.4      653.3        737.2
Surplus before depreciation            37.2       65.1      118.4       120.2      156.8      181.9       204.2       225.5
Depreciation                           23.1       26.9       27.6        28.1       28.3        28.6       28.9        29.2
Surplus before Interest               14.1        38.2       90.8        92.1      128.5      153.3       175.3       196.3
Interest                               -           -         68.3        66.2       63.9       61.5        58.8        56.0
Net Revenue                         14.1       38.2        22.5        25.9       64.6       91.8       116.5       140.3
Rate of Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets                     3.6         4.5        9.9        10.1       14.3       17.4        20.4        23.3
May 1976



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Saralevo Gas Enterprise (SGE)
Cash Flo. Statemsents for the Years 1976-1986
Year Ending December 31                        1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1976/80   1981        1982       1983       1984       1985        1986
Sources of Fuods
incone betore unepreciation                     -          -          -          37.2       65.1      102.3      118.4       120.2      156.8      181.9      204.2      225.5
Connectios Fees                                 -          -           -          21.8       24.2       46.0       28.9       30.6       32.5       34.4       36.5         4.7
Conversion  Charges                             _          _          20.0        20.0       10.0       50.0       -
Totai                                            _                     20.0       79.0       99.3      108.3      147.3      150.8      189.3       216.3      240.7      230.2
Capital Contributions
City Assembly Contribution to
Naftagas                                      -          21.4       21.4        -          -          42.8       -          -          -          -          -           -
City Assembly                                   -          10.0        10.0       10.0       -          30.0
Housing Fund                                    16.0       14.0       -           -          -          30.0
Site Preparation Fund                           17.0       10.0       15.0        12.4       _          54.4 
Total                                           33.0       55.4       46.4        22.4       -         157.2       _          -          -          -           -          -
Proopsed Loans
IbRD                                             1.8      188.7      185.3        71.2       39.0     486.0        _          _          _          _           -          _
City Assembly Loans                             -          17.0        17.0       -          -          34.0
Local Loans                                     -          85.3      141.6      128.6        21.4      376.9
Total                                            1.8      291.0      343.9      199.8        60.4      896.9
Naftagas Loan: Interest                         -          -          -          -           -          -           2.7        2.5        2.3        2.1         1.9        1.7
Repayment                       _                    -           L                    _a__         2.4        2.6         2.8        3.0        3.2        3.4
=fotal                     S                               -          -           -          -                      3.1        3.1        5.1        5      .1  5.1    5     .1
Increased in Current Liability                   6.0       32.0       30.0      (34.0)        1.0       30.0        6.0        6.0        7.0        8.0         7.0        1.0
Total Resources                                 40.8      378.4      440.3      267.2       160.7   1,287.4       158.4      161.9      201.4      229.4       252.8      236.3
Apnilcation of Ponds
Capital Erper,ditures
Project Rxpenditure                            39.0      328.7      367.2      137.7        73.1     945.7        -          _          _          _           _
Other Tnvcstsoe,stn                            -          .          -          -          --         -           35 0       40         40.0       45.0       45.0        15.0
Total                                           39.0      328.7      367.2       137.7       73.1      945.7       35.0       40.0       40.0       45.0        45.0       15.0
Intercst Capitalized
IbRD                                           1.8        8.7       25.3       35.3       39.0      110.1        -                     -          -          -           -
local Loans                                   - _         2.6        9.4       17.5        21.4       50.9
Total                                            1.8       11.3       34.7        52.8       60.4      161.0       -          _          _          _          _           _
Long Term Investment
Loan to Naftagas                               -          17.0       17.0       -           -          34.0
Crant to Naftagas                              -          21.4        21.4      -           -          42.8
Total                                            _         38.4        38.4       _          _          76.8
Debt Service
Interest
IbRD                                                                                                              42.5       41.7       40.7       39.7        38.6       37.4
Local Loans                                                                                                       25.8       24.5       23.2       21.8       20.2        18.6
Total                                           -                                                                  6 _  -  _  _  68.3  66.2  63.9    61.5       58.8       56.0
Amortization
IbRD                                                                                                               9.8       10.6       11.6       12.6        13.7       14.9
Local Loans                                    -          -          -           -          -          -          19.2       20.5       21.8       23.2        24.8       26.4
Total                                          _          _          _          _           _          _          29.0       31.1       33.4       35.8        38.5       41i 
Total Debt Service                                                                                                 97.3       97.3       97.3       97.3        97.3       97.3
Increase in Current Assets                      -           -          -          55.0       25.0       80.0       31.0       20.0       31.0        31.0       26.0       16.0
Contributions                                   -                                  2.0        4.1        6.1        7.1        8.3       10.1        11.2       13.4       14.4
Reserve Fund                                    -                      -           1.0        1.3        2.3        1.8      ( 2.1)       6.3         2.4        2.6        2.7
Total Application                               40.8      378.4      440.3       248.5      163.9   1.271.9       172.2      163.5      184.7       186.9      184.3      145.4
Surplus Cash                                    -           -          -          18.7       (3.2)      15.5      (13.8)      (1.6)      16.7        42.5       68.5       90.9
Cash Balance of End of Year                     -           -          -          18.7       15.5       -           1.7        0.1       16.8        59.3      127.8      218.7
Debt Service Coverage                           -           -          -          -          -          -           1.6        1.6        2.0         2.3        2.5        2.4
Debt Service Coverage after
Contributions & Reserve Fund                                                                                      1.4        1.5        1.7        2.0        2.2         2.1
May 1976



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Saralevo Gas Enterprise (SGE)
Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1976 - 1986
(Din Millions)
As at December 31                             1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
Assets
Fsxed Assets
Fixed Assets in Operation                    -          -          -         799.0      960.7      996.8    1,016.2   1,023.7   1,034.3   1,042.8   1,058.1
Less Depreciation                            -          -          -          23.1       50.0       77.6       105.7      134.0      162.6      191.5   _220.7
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                -          -          -         775.9      910.7      919.2       919.5      889.7      871.7      851.3      837.4
Work in Progress                            40.8       380.8      762.7      112.4       50.0       20.0        10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0         5.0
Investments
Reserve Fund Investment                      -          -          -           1.0        2.3        4.1         2.0        8.3       10.7       13.3       16.0
Investment in Naftagas                       -          21.4       42.8       42.8       42.8       42.8        42.8       42.8       42.8       42.8       42.8
Loan to Naftagas                             -          17.0       34.0       34.0       34.0       31.6        29.0       26.2       23.2       20.0       16.6
TDtal                                                   38.4       76.8       77.8       79.1       78.5        73.8       77.3       76.7       76.1       75.4
Current Assets
Inventories                                  -          -          -          10.0       10.0       11.0        11.0       12.0       13.0       14.0       15.0
Receivables                                  -          -          -          45.0       70.0      100.0       120.0      150.0      180.0      205.0      220.0
Cash                                         -          -          -          18.7       15.5        1.7          .1       16.8       59.3      127.8      218.7
Total                                        _ _           _                  73.7       95.5      112.7       131.1      178.8      252.3      346.8      453.7
Total Assets                                40.8       419.2      839.5   1.039.8   1,135.3   1.130.4    1,125.4   1.155.8   1,210.7   1,284.2   1,371.5
Liabilities
Equita
Proposed Contributions                       33.0       88.4      134.8      157.2      157.2      157.2       157.2      157.2      157.2      157.2      157.2
Accumulated Surplus                          -          -          -          11.1       43.9       60.2         82.4     132.9      213.2      315.6      440.5
Reserve Fund                                 -          -          -           1.0        2.3        4.1         2.0        8.3       10.7       13.3       16.0
Total                                        33.0       88.4      134.8      169.3      203.4      221.5       241.6      298.4      381.1      486.1      613.7
Long Term Liability
Proposed IBRD Loan                            1.8      190.5      375.8      447.0      486.0      476.2       465.6      454.0      441.4      427.7      412.8
Proposed Local Loans                         -         102.3      260.9      389.5      410.9      391.7       371.2      349.4      326.2      301.4      275.0
Total                                         1.8      292.8      636.7      836.5      896.9      867.9       836.8      803.4      767.6      729.1      687.8
Current Liabilities
Contractors                                   6.0       38.0       68.0       20.0       12.0        6.0         7.0        7.0        8.0        8.0         2.0
Accounts Payable                              _         -          -          14.0       23.0       35.0        40.0       47.0       54.0       61.0       68.0
rotal                                         6.0       38.0       68.0       34.0       35.0       41.0        47.0       54.0       62.0       69.0       70.0
Iotal Liabilities                            40.8      419.2      839.5   1.039.8   1.135.3   1,130.4    1,125.4   155.8   1,2                184.2   137L5
Ratios
Debt/Equity Ratio                            -          -          -          83:17    82:18        80:20      78:22    73:27        67:33    60:40       53:47
May 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SGE - Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
Income Statement
1.        Income and operating expenses were based on January 1976 prices and
were inflated as follows:
1976      -      16%
1977      -     13%
1978      -      10%
1979-80   -       7% per annum
2.        The sales price of gas in 1979 was assumed at 3.1 Din per m3 and
was increased by the inflation factor for subsequent years.
3.        Other income includes charges made for maintenance of boilers and
operation of central heating plants and miscellaneous charges.
4.        The projected wholesale price for gas to be charged by Naftagas in
1977 is 1.6 Din per i3. This price was increased by 10% to provide compensa-
tion to Energoinvest, Zvornik for accepting an interruptible supply. The
quantity of gas purchased is 1% higher than gas sales to allow for unaccounted-
for gas.
5.        The manning levels of the new enterprise were established for 1979
and 1983 and increased linearly during the intermediate years.  Costs were
increased by 5% from 1983 onwards to provide for salary increments and in-
creased staff.
6.        Maintenance of the distribution system and transmission pipeline
was estimated at about 1/2% of original cost in 1979 rising to 2% in 1985.
7.        Insurance for the system was estimated in accordance with Yugoslavian
law at 0.6% of cost.
8.        Other expenditure includes vehicle operating costs, electricity,
heating and office supplies was estimated at 55% of wages and salaries.
9.        Depreciation was calculated at 2.75% per annum.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2 pages
Cash Flow Statement
10.       Connection fees and conversion charges were estimiated at cost.
11.       The following are the details of projected loans:
(a)  An IBRD Loan of Din 486.0 million (US$27.0 million) for
25 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at 8-1/2%
per annum.
(b)  The local loans will be provided by The Federal Government
Fund and local banks as follows:
Din million
(i)  Federal Government Fund                       125.0
(ii)  Privredna Banka Head Office                   100.0
(iii)  Privredna Banka Sarajevo                       75.0
(iv)  Jugobanka                                      26.0
Interest during construction                   50.9
376.9
The Federal Government Fund loan will be for a period of
eighteen years plus the construction period and at an
interest rate of 5%. The Bank loans are for a period of
twenty years including five years grace and at an interest
rate of 7-1/2%.
(c)  The City Assembly will provide a loan of Din 34.0 to SGE
for a period of 23 years including 5 years grace at an
interest rate of 3% per annum. SGE will onlend this loan
to NGU for a period of 15 years including 5 years grace
at an interest rate of 8% per annum.
12.       Other investments cover new connections and minor extensions to
the distribution system.
13.       Contributions and reserve fund payments were estimated at the same
percentage rate used for Vodovod Sarajevo.
Balance Sheet
14.       Connection and conversion costs paid by consumers were not capitalized.
15.       Receivables were estimated at about three months annual sales and
should equal about two months of winter sales.
16.       Accounts payable were estimated at about ten percent of annual op-
erating costs.



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Justification
Background
1.        Because of climatic conditions and of the use of polluting fuels (low
grade coal and fuel oil) for heating purposes, air pollution in the city of
Sarajevo is particularly severe and would become hazardous to general health
if nothing is done to bring it down to acceptable levels. The City Assembly
has already launched a program prohibiting the use of the most polluting fuels
in the center of the city, but this program would not be sufficient to meet
the minimum air quality standards accepted by the city (Annex 2). Several
alternative solutions have been investigated by Stanford Research Institute
(Consultants) within the framework of an overall study of air pollution com-
missioned by the City Assembly. The study concluded that only the use of
manufactured or natural gas could bring air pollution down to acceptable
standards.
The Two Gas Alternatives
(i) Manufactured Gas
2.        BIB is rich in coal of somewhat lower grade with a low calorific
content (less than 5,000 Kcal/kg) and high moisture, ash and sulphur contents.
This coal could however be used to manufacture low calorific value gas
(3,825 Kcal/m3) in a coal gasification plant located on the Breza mine some
20 km northwest of Sarajevo, The gas would be transmitted to the city by
a 24' pipeline and distributed to the consumers through a 200 km distribution
grid (Annex 2).
3.        The estimated cost of the above facilities (excluding taxes and
duties) is about US$115.0 million at the initial stage for a peak plant cap-
acitv of about 250,000 m3/hr. This plant would be sufficient until 1987 when
new peak facilities would have to be added at a cost estimated at about US$40
million. The plant would use some 500,000 tons of coal at a cost of about
Din 260.0/t (US$15.0 million). Cost estimates for the facilities are in
Table 1.
(ii) Natural Gas
4.        Natural gas is not available in BIll but will be available at Zvornik
(on the border between BIH and Serbia) when the NGIJ system under construction
is completed in 1977. The supply of natural gas to Sarajevo would require
the construction of a transmission line from Zvornik to Sarajevo and of a
distribution svstem in the city.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5 pages
5.        The cost of these facilities ac, sted for taxes and duties is es-
timated at US$37 million. These would bt ufficient to serve the demand
until 1995. Gas would be supplied by NGU' and would bear an economic cost
of Din 1.30/m3 (US$0.075) which is equivalent to the city cost of gas im-
ported from the U.S.S.R. augmented by transport cost in Serbia.
Benefits
6.        The threat of air pollution to the general population is widely
recognized, however, the multiplicity of variables involved make it difficult
to establish direct relationship between the level of pollution and the gen-
eral health of the population. It is generally accepted that no one pollutant
is responsible, by itself, for all observed effects, the total effects appear
to be the result of combination of pollutants and other factors such as
weather and seasonal influences. In Sarajevo pollution appears to result
mostly from a combination of an inversion phenomena and heavy emissions of
sulfur oxides in particular.
7.        The use of gas will reduce considerably the emission of sulfur
dioxide (S02) and trioxide (S03) and of soot, which are the principal pol-
lutants emitted. A known effect of sulfur oxides is irritation of the res-
piratory system and exposure to high concentration may affect health per-
manently. This effect has been observed in Sarajevo (Annex 2) where it
appears that mortality rates increase 2 to 4 days following the occurrence
of high S02 and soot concentration. Available records also suggest that
worker absenteeism and respiratory diseases of school children are more
frequent and severe than t'aey would be in a cleaner environment. Because
of the lack of experience in this field and of reliable cost data, no attempt
was made to quantify the social cost of high level of pollution in the Sarajevo
area. It is expected, however, that a cleaner environment would in the long
run contribute substantially to the improvement of the general health situa-
tion in the city.
8.        Sulfur oxides and sulfuric acid are responsible for rapid deteriora-
tion of building (roofing, paint, etc.) and for increased maintenance of public
facilities, these expenditures which the mission was unable to quantify because
of the lack of reliable data should also decrease substantially in the long
run. Since gas will be delivered by underground pipeline, truck deliveries
of fuel will be greatly reduced and this should ease urban traffic problems
particularly in the older part of the city where streets are narrow and
winding.
Justification
9.        Since most of the benefits cannot be estimated accurately the
analysis has been limited to the comparison of the net present value (NPV)
of the two technically viable alternatives to ensure that the proposed proj-
ect is the least cost solution to the Sarajevo air pollution problem. The
results are in Table 2 and show that over a period of twenty years at dis-
count rates of 10%, 15% and 20%. The NPV of the natural gas alternative is
constantly lower than the NPV of the manufactured gas alternative.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3 of 5 pages
10.       Since no meaningful rate of return can be calculated, it will be
necessary to ensure that gas tariffs reflect the cost of gas supply to ensure
adequate resource allocation. This is inter alia the purpose of the tariff
study which SCE has agreed to carry out with the assistance of consultants.
The long term marginal cost of gas supply to Sarajevo, based on prevailing
price of imported gas and the investment shown in Table 2, is currently esti-
mated at Din 3.0/10,000 kcal (Din 2.58/m3). A summary of the Terms of Refer-
ence of the study is given below.
*SummaryTerms of Reference for a Tariff Study
11.       The consultant would assist the Sarajevo Gas Borrower's staff
through their own staff and/or sub-consultants, in setting up tariffs which
would meet the Sarajevo Gas Borrower's financial objectives and ensure effi-
cient allocation of resources. The tariffs proposed by the Sarajevo Gas
Borrower and the consultant will be submitted to the Bank and should include:
(i)  an analysis of the fixed and variable costs of the project;
(ii) an analysis of the structure of consumption by type of consumers
to identify the main parameters that would influence the cost
of gas supply (demand fluctuation, volume of delivery, pressure
... etc.);
(iii) an analysis of the cost of service connection and of metering
facilities at the consumer premises;
(iv) an evaluation of losses and unaccounted-for gas;
(v) a review of the main alternative tariff policies and their
evaluation in terms of Sarajevo Gas Borrower's financial
viability and resource allocation; and
(vi) recommendation for Sarajevo Gas Borrower's tariff policy and
for its implementation.



.24NEX 1 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
Table 1
Estimated Cost of the Manufactured Gas AlternativeL/
Din Million   US$ '000
Plant Facilities Capital Costs
Coal preparation                                     150          8,800
Oxygen plant                                         230         13,550
Coal gasifiers                                       250         14,700
Gas purification                                     210         12,350
Sulphur recovery section                              50          2,950
Gas liquor treatment                                  45          2,650
Utilities                                            375         22,050
General facilities                                    50          2,950
Total                                           1,360         80,000
=
Pipeline from plant to Sarajevo                          85          5,000
Distribution system                                     290         17,000
Engineering                                              55          3,250
Physical contingencies                                  160          9,400
Total                                           1,950        114,650
/1 For a plant of a peak capacity of about 109 kilo calorie/hr, excluding
taxes and duties on equipment.
Source: SRI. Adjusted by mission to reflect 1975 costs.
May 1976



Table 2
Comparison between the Manufactured and Natural Gas Alternatives
Alternative I - Manufactured Gas             Alternative II - Natural Gas
Capital  Operating    Fuel                  Capital  Operating   Fuel
Years    Costs     Costs       Costs     Total        Costs     Costs      Costs    Total
------------------------------- --US$   -000
1975    6,000       -           -        6,000       2,000       -          -       2,000
1976   35,000       -           -       35,000      12,000       -          -      12,000
1977   46,000       -           -       46,000      15,000       -          -      15,000
1978   17,000     2,500        3,000    22,500       5,000     1,000       3,600    9,600
1979   11,000     2,500        4,500    18,000       3,000     2,000       5,400   10,400
1980     -        2,500        6,000     8,000         -       2,000       7,800    9,800
1981     -        2,500        6,500     9,000         -       2,000       8,700   10,700
1982     -        2,500        7,500    10,000         -       2,000       9,900   11,900
1983     -        2,500        7,500    10,000         -       2,000      10,500   12,500
1984     -        2,500        7,500    10,000         -       2,500      11,100   13,600
1985     -        2,500        7,500    10,000         -       2,500      11,700   14,200
1986     -        2,500        7,500    10,000         -       2,500      12,600   15,100
1987   10,000     2,500        7,500    20,000         -       2,500      13,500   16,000
1988   30,000     3,500        8,500    42,000         -       2,500      14,400   16,900
1989     -        3,500        8,500    12,000         -       3,000      15,000   18,000
1990     -        3,500        8,500    12,000         -       3,000      15,000   18,000
1991     -        3,500        8,500    12,000         -       3,000      15,000   18,000
1992     -        3,500        8,500    12,000         -       3,000      15,000   18,000
1993     -        3,500        8,500    12,000         -       3,000      15,000   18,000
1994     -        3,500        8,500    12,000         -       3,000      15,000   18,000
Total 155,000    49,500      124,500   329,000      37,000    41,500    199,200  277,700
2002mammm==am
NPV at 10%                       155,164                                    102,655
NPV at 15%                       118,806                                     70,890
NPV at 20%w                       95,798                                     52,223
Source:  SRI Report and mission's estimates.                                                             0 Ph
VI-6
may 1976                                                                                                  P
OQ



ANNX 12
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
KEY INDICATCRS
I. Air Pollution/Natural Gas
-  Average and Peak concentrations of major pollutants
-   days on which standards are exceeded
-   gas volume purchased
-   gas volume sold
-   total number of connections
-  population served by gas (%)
- population served by other clean fuels (%)
-  hourly, daily, weekly, monthly peak gas delivery
-   gradient outside temperature/gas demand
-  unaccounted-for gas and distribution losses
-   average sales (m3) per kilometer of service line
-  average consumption per consumer, domestic, commercial
and industrial
-   average monthly bill per consumer, domestics commercial
and industrial
II.  Financial
- Rate of return
-  Debt:Equity Ratio
- Debt Service coverage
- Average depreciation rate
-  Average revenue m3 of gas sold (Central Heating
Plants, other domestic, other industrial and
commercial)
-  Number of average days bills outstanding (by customer
category)
-  Revenue effectiveness index
-   Operating expenses per m3 of gas purchased
III.  Staffing and Training
-   number of permanent employees
-   eviployees per 1000 connections
-  man-months of employee training
-  man-month consultants
May 1976



GAS IMPORTS FROM    I
it|                                    1                                HUNGARY    sbEI                               21'                                    22
YUGOSLAJIA
H U N G A R Y                                                                                                                            SARAJEVO
-46 sK                                                                                                                         AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT                                                  4-
GAS TRANSMISSION LINE
A~\ <                                                                            mia r <  GdronjO.; ) vndalio . C Project Main Pipeline
Project Dictribi.on Pipeline  to Consumers
A      Compressor  Stations
,s!l  pin   \bbo  FN   7                          Pipelme under Constructon(Naftagas Loan 916-Yu)
-             > ~\ t > f ;H>Med /u,   Gms treating Plants under Consitr,con(Noftagos Loon
Existing Pipelines
Eol PEisting Gas treating Plant
>    4 <Xo            G       i           t     ~        ~       ~ ~~~~~'.  _-A   Gas Fields
Projected expansion of gas Pipelines
9 g> \\t) n ( 1 e S _ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main Roads
r) h   ~ _g --  -B Boundaries of Republics & Autonoxnous Provinces
\  ~~~ <   \    \  \            />          ,<:            v.iOC  .        _,_  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Iniernnohonol Boundaries
Prol < q__. 5 tedEl-f \\2t > i   /           /XX  a Sales 1977kL5  M     Nm345 -
k                                     tttse x    3 as at         l 3 Cii. N1 I y
<   Klodn5S/ ~          ~             ~~                         ~~                        ~J                                   d,O, g        o 
-44       0 N0   30                                                                     44 5(1                       A
F ~~S                                                       - ,,J-                                                                                                                 or  \ 
;  -  - 12;  hE 1bAJEVO                                                      .-k .A1  p   K    O  S  O   Vj X O                 /      ,Xne
V4  '   'A k 4t A                           |                          >                                  <      \               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
t  -  _ - - I   f   sh>n                       I                   f              I                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-H.






IBRD 11460R
n            W    .....3*  f   9   . .  -"                                                                                                                                      SEflEMSER   IOL.......... | < ) \0 \ 9Y7 X / m      g 0   t ......................................................................  BR  E E41
... ..CREB S+_,RU,/- aS N    >    A) \  VWS  g                   XC7XKS  X  l (} X                                             YUGOSLAVIA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~SARAJEVO
4T~~~~~~~~~~
V JOOVAV' a                                                                                            AIR POLLUTION  CONTROL PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 7-XARASSEVE B TEDITRBuIO GI
_JGOS A/ A 07ELGR; i~ Je 03 QJ[ 0 t><~~>\$) 0 8 47 GAS  D ISTRIBUTION   SYSTE                                   M
MAINREGUASEVDETHEG DSTRIBTION GI
REGULATING STATIONS
MAIN STREET NETWORKIA
N1a"S . -CONTOURS IN METERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LA i . i mr2   +   /  ;   /   >  (    \  >  k   \    [ v                    <     \       2          >    t  A<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
-ID ETE)O
&,,:j}E 'B;Stt   C~~ NFs  n<Jo9X                                                                                                                 r   2~y~0
/ XX A \\t/  X  XIrfoff ,    1



