6033 - WS
RESTRICTED
RPor No. SAM: Ap.15
AAN DEVELOPMENT BANK  thdw[wof t. A*'*.
APPRAISAL
OF THE
MULTIPROJECT LOAN
TO
WESTERN SAMOA
OCTOBER 1985



(As of 30 SeprtadIer 1985)
Currency Unit  - Western Sanma Tala (WS$)
WS$ 1.00       = US$0.4625
tJS$ 1.00        WS$2.1622
The value of the tala in terms of the New Zealand dollar
(the intervention currency) is determined by reference to a basket of
currencies.  Exchange rates for other currencies are established on
the basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar.  In
this report, an exchange rate of WS$2.3 = TUS$1.00 is used.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB  -  Australian Develcpient Assistance Bureau
EWS  -  Bank of Western Samoa
CBS  -  Central Bank of Samoa
DAFF -  Departnmt of Agriculture, Forests and
Fisheries
DEWS -  Developnent Inank of Western Samoa
DED  -  DeparbTent of Eoonamic Development
DPW   -  Department of Public Works
DP4  -  Fourth Five Year Development Plan, 1980-1984
DPS  -  Fifth Development Plan, 1985-1987
EEC   -  Furopean Eccnamic Cmmmunity
FAO   -  Food and Agriculture organization
ICB  -   International Campetitive Bidding
MJX  -   International Development Association
IFAD  -  International Fund for Agricultural
Developnent
DW   -   International Monetary Fund
MDYr  -  Marine Division of the Ministry of Transport
NPF   -  National Provident Fund
PCC   -  Project Coordinating Cammittee
PE3  -  Project Executing Office
SCC   -  Subproject Coordinating Committee
SIC   -  Small Industries Center
TELU  -  Twenty-ton Equivalent Unit
(Standard oontainer)
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Programme
"he Government's Fiscal Year. (FY) coincides with the calendar
year.



!ject- Fbcus, esijM and Rationale
After   several   years   of   ecnaic   stagnation   and
political instability the Goveernt of Western Sa.oa has adopted
various corrective measures to avoid further deterioration of the
econcndc  situation.  7he  stabiv.-ation  pvrgram  implewinted  with
assistance fzan IW has e-nabled the country to steer the econcry back
into a state of relative stability.  The Goerrnent is currently
making conoerted efforts to revitalize econardc activitier aimed at
achieving grow-h.
The Fifth  Developnent Plan  (1985-1987)  (DPS) aim  at
increased production for exot and invot substitution, particularly
in the village agrieulture  sector, thro     the  exsting  social
organizations; pramxtion  of private sector invwstMUnts  with the
possibility of sare of the public enterprises withdrawing fran certain
lines  of ecomnic  activities;  and  creation  of new  oployment
opportunities.
lhe proposed Project consists of four subrojects, in the
agriculture, industry and infrastructure sectors, viz:
Mi) Tree Crop Develapment;
(ii) Establishment of Snall Industries Center;
(iii) Rural P-ads Upgrading; and
(iv) Apia Container Park TUgradirg.
Me subprojects are of high priority in the overall strategy
of VP5. The Tree Crop Developent subproject will help accelerate the
introduction of inproved varieties of tree crops, mdern inputs and
necessary extension services for sallholder farmers; this subproject
will also help diversify the country's cropping pattern. mhe Smll
Tndustries Center subroject will provide  incentives to  private
entrepreneurs to expand and establish industries both fbr inport
substitution ancl eports.  mhe Rural 1Dads Uprading surnject will
reduce transportation costs and facilitate the openirg of new
agriculture areas. The Container Park Upgrading subproject will help
inprove efficiency, and facilitate the handling of goods and help
reduce the berthing time of ships. ai the whole, therefore, the
subprojects will contribute to increasing productivity and enhancinq
the acceleration of eoonxitic activities and long-term growth.
The Project's benefits would include additional agricultural
production, enhance irndustrial progress, and reduce vehicle main-
tenarre.  With respect to the Tree Crop Movelopnent subproject, the
per acre yield on fuU production is expected to quadruple for
coconut, triple  for cocoa and about double for coffee from their
present levels.  fThe Sanll Industries Center will provide incentives
for accelerated industrial growth particularly for inport substitution
and to a limited extent, export-oriented industries. The Pural Rnads
and Container Park upgrading subprojects will accelerate the
transportion network. In addition, there will be significant benefits
of a less-quantifiable nature, such as bettenr access of farmers to
market and more efficient handling of goods.



' OFi ors
Paae
MP 1: Western SDa                            (i}
MP 2: Upolu islan d
9MP 3: Savai i Islan                       (i)
I.  WrKUrIIct                                          1
- IT.    B D~                                              2
A.  lhe E     y                               2
D.  Major Rwnzadc sectrs                      3
1. Agriculture Sector                    3
2. IMtrial Sector                        4
3. wsu           ector                   5
Mn.  ine PRammT                                          7
A.  Sod  of the Pzoject                       7
B.  A{aisail of SuAmijects                    7
C.    iptios of Srojects                      8
D.  Ibmiromental Aspects                     13
E.  Cost Estbutes                            14
F.  Ein.ngn Plan                             15
IV.   PW03BIT DIPLW~RIThTIC*417
A.  Project bTcuttg Agency md ?zojet
cl.naticm                    ~~~~~~17
B.     pleinAgencies                         18
C.      cmnt                                 22
D.  Canultants                               24
E.          Atin   rrangu.n-t                24
F.  Project   u      rran     ts             26
G.       p         Shedule                   26
H.  Irmo  and Righo-of-1ay                   27
I.            anera    d Main                27
J.  Project Risk                             28
V.   T ICAL ASSW?E                                      29
VI.  JtEMPICATNC  AND MiEPMIr                           31
VII.  aCOMSIQMS MD AMtIc 1;                             33
APfbUDDD;                                         35



all 03  ~ ~ ~ ~ 7s203                               172o0o                       177*0.3
SAVAI ISLI                                                                     0     
PALAUU   00    L      .ALI
Na^>~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~L0R                                                        5 \      al  to  b 1    lb  to nu
t A    i9,            ~~~~~Mr. 8t1"     \     a 8
MMAT>  J#T. JSAXFANB      V <   ^ AUA 
VLL?                 L. MNUALVA        SAUMIA
0VLLA                                           L                                         AJVALU
LATA           PALAVUL  rS       W    oO A                                                                   _
>;w@CORA                                    IPIUAti  
rfRA                                                           UMW RAL 4
OCNOANJ
~~~. PAISC a^X  s.  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
7A3 oAS3.            L. tANU7                                 V 1  4q.3
LltFAGA                 MT PM Or
_  ROAOS                     Ck 'i                                                               Y.
o   TOWNSvLAkS V'LAW                                                                                         N OR^L          V  -  g
-              OC6ANOCEAN
1°01772°sa0                                                1t2°00'                      17104                        ' 



WETERN AMMkOA
MULTIPROJIECT LOAN
01) Spoil hidsaftM CMtwUPOLUMILAND
0  2 4|1) 6w > 610    PtU
1          ~~~~~Kuit'                    I= (8 RECOIOVLPE
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oh Satta at dSffm.t>
ASGND                           j -- z Au   Su>
J .~~~~~~~1
DNtrIGt Uoundavv ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Pote
0  a 4  4  4 soN" 
n__4                   ~~~~~~(1) TREE CROP OltVnAaT|
L e a t " t *                ~~~~~~~~to t be M   t n tt In
__ gltil Roa
Prp 0   Road SabPmJoCt 
..--Obrlet BoundaryD



WESTERN SAMOA
I North CotRoad  I d
MULTIPROJECT LOAN                              | NSotuCt Rtbad  |
SAVAI'I ISLAND                                                         F   e
Satw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to
L.tul -                                           .          Sitintt    op    
v I.2   -   {gleunn
<~~~4                          '.- -.    Z----0                                         -  "'-'r 0/
amounts U  .        /    X                                   '
, > ^ ~Swal'ldbuth east Road   X, so
0   2   4  ffi 8  10 ~' x !\~ / ," sa -' 
LEGEND:                                                                 ,
-   -Exittingi Rosds                                 ,'                1) TREE CRoib DEVELOPMENT           '     TtW, 
0100- 01PPosilble Sustittute Rc uoP oJeeU101                                   To be located it difterOnt |2
.._, ...Distrlct GloundrY                       ...... Sit" thro"hWAthe CoUntry .
RlvO
.. . ... ... ... ... ... .



T . TNTC*CX
1.       During the 1984 Country PgrAning Mission, the rweimont
reqx sted Rwn  assistance to finance several  mll1 projects of high
priority in the public sector.  The sustin was reviewed and
several of the proposeO swall projects were grouped together to form a
Multiproject Loan (the Project) in line wit8 the Bank's policy set ot
in "A Review of Rank Operations in the South Pacific Developing M?',ber
Countries". 1/ The Project has four sutprojects which cover thlee
econauic setors, viz., agricultwue,- (the develcpuent and di-jersi-
fication of tree crops), industry Ithe establishunt of a smaU
industries center) , and infrastructure (the upgrading of rural roads
and the containr park at Apia wharf). Ihe developimnt of tree crops
will benefit private smallholders in different locations in the
cuwtry, while the other subprojects will be inpl0ented in the more
denselv populated areas in the island of tlpolu.
2.       The Project was formlated during a Fact-Finding Mission in
April 1985 and appraised in June 1985, when the individual subprojects
mere reviewed with the cncerned ministries and agencies of the
Govermuent. ?he Appraisal Mission was caqposed of O.R.I. Bako (Senior
Coutry Offioer/Mission Chief), C.J. Beresford-Jones (Senior Agrono-
mist), P. S. Trillana III (Senior Counsel) and H. S. van Bnrumelen
(Pmject Engineer). The Mission was joined by a representative of
IBD/IMA, K.S. Sengupta (Agronanist).  This report is based on the
Mission's findings and discussions with GDbverrnnt Ministers, Heads of
3epartments and other officials of the Goveriment agencies cncened.
lt Doc. R157-78 dated 14 DeceBiRer 1978, read with Working Paper 6-78
dated 14 Novenrber 1978; R39-83, Pevision 1, dated 19 October 1983.



2
IT. PAMMOM
A. The Econan
3.       After three consecutive years of decl ining output, the
econat  of Western Samoa began to reoover in the secoond half of 1983,
and impoved further in 1984. (MP in real terms is estimated to- have
grown at 0.5 per cent in 1983 and 7 per cent in 1984. This qrowth was
attributable mainly to a rapid increase in the production of minor
ccanxdities such as taro and troical fruits, and an increase in sane
manufactured products and construction activities (airport extension,
private  and. hrch  huildings,  hyd1o &x, etc.).  Although  the
production of major caucdittkes (copra, cocoa and bananas) declined as
a result of a amnbination of such Ifactors as senility, lack of
incentives, arid Iimited markets, their adverse effects were offset by
a rise in the price of exports. The GDP growth was also acocaipanied
by a gradual increase in consuhption and investment suted by a
sharp rise in private remittances Zran Western SanDans abroad and
capital inflows, mostly as developnent aid. During the past two
yeas, the country's inport bills have been met by export earnings,
foreign renittanoes and external aid-related capital inflows each
contributing almost one third of the cost. This pattern is likely to
continue for sane time to cane.
4.       Largely reflecting the various adjustment measures under a
strong stabilization program inplemented in consultation with IMF, the
external position inproved considerably in 1983 and 1984. The
trade deficit in 1984 narrowed to US$30 million and with the favorable
trends in remittarnces from Western Sanans abroad, the current account
showed a surplus of about UMS1 million. The large inflows of capital
accounts resulted in an overall ba]ance-of-payments surplus during the
past two ye-ars.  As a result, Western Samoa's external paym-nits
arrears were reduced to about US$1.7 miilion at the end of 1984 .'ran
TSSIM  million in 1982; international rese_ves at the end of 1984 stood
at US$10.7 million, equivalent to 2.7 months of verchandise inports.
5.       As a result of fiscal discipline and tight mnetary policy,
the G'owrrnment's budgetary position also improved suhbtantially and
the overall deficit decreased to WS$26 million (about US$12 million)
in 1984.  The steady improvenent in public finances resulted in a
sharp  reduction  in bank credits to both Government and public
enterprises, and in leve-ling of f in growth rate of total liquidity.
This development, togethpr with the improved food supply and
moderation in ivport prices, have brought about a deceleration of the
inflation rate to 11.9 per cent in 1984 as against 16.5 per cent in
1983.



3
6.       The G-ovornmant has launched  the Fifth Developrent Plan,
1985-1987 (DP5). Inste-ad of five-year coverage as in previous Plans,
PP5 will be inplnented over three years to coincide with the term of
the legislative Assembly. The objectives of DPS are basically the
continuation of the lonr-term develoanent efforts set out previously
in VP3 (1975-1979) and DP4 (1980-1984). With increased production as
the primary goal, particular eiohasis has been given to those projects
that enhance productive capacity, generate employment, impopve
value-added of exports, and promote activities that lead to foreign
exchange earniuns or savings. Projects in the area of agriculture,
industry and suportinq infrastructure have high priority.
7.       A tcta:  investment of about Mi$147 Nillion  (ahout WS$50
million per annur} at 1984 prices is envisaged curing DPS, of which
nearly 80 per cent is expected to om  fri  external assistance. The
cainodable performance during thw past few years augurs well for
increased inflows of external assistance during DP5, but actual
implenntatior of development projects may be constrained by lack of
skills  and  institutional weaknesses.  The recognition  of these
shortcanings recruirecs ramedial measures which should be included in
any aid package.
8.       There are favorable indications that the ecamncy can now be
geared towards achieving growth after several years of stagnancy. The
TMF Representative in Western Saroa has advised the Mission that with
the inproved fiscal performnce, a limited anount of local currency
could be set aside for developint purposes in the budgets for the
next  three  years  (1986-1988)  without  undue  strain  on  fiscal
operations. Furthernore, plans are now being made to inprove the
taxation system with the help of IMP. It is envisaged that at least a
20 per cent increase in Ckvernment rerrenue fran taication could be
achieved with an iuiroved tax system.
P. Major Econanic .ectors
1.   Agriculture Sector
9.       Agriculture is the mainstay of the ecomnay of Western SamBa.
The sector accounts for alnist 50 per cent of G()P and ccntributes
about 90 per oent to its export earnings. About 70 per cent of the
population diepends on it for their livelihood. The sector, however,
is characterized by low productivity and overall production has been
staqnant during the past decade.  The sector shows a substantial
potential as a large area of agricultural land is presently under-
utilized  or unused especially  in Savai ' i which can be used to
diversify the cointry's potential. Within the agriculture sector, the
Aestern  Sanma  Trust  Fstates  Corporation  4WS5X)  is  the  nrst
siqnificant government organizat4jon engaged in ccrmrrcial plantaticn.
i0.      Devel opvnt  strategies  in  agriculture  are  ained  at
strengthening the production base through rehabilitation, expansion
an(d diversification of crops irclxAi&ng those of private smallholders



4
with the Gow"rtient providinq the nesnssary inputs  (e3xtension of
credit, tec'hnology and institutional support).  Rehabilitation of
major  tree  crops  (coconut, cocoa  and  coffee)  and  agriculture
diversification through the deelopment of rnw crops frubber, pepper,
palm oil, fruit crops, cloves) may invigorate the slackening agri-
cultural sector.  Diversification will be prcroted through the esta-
blishnent of pilot private farms in appropriate agriculture zones.
With a view to encouraging agriculture activities, the Goverment has
provided incetives to fariers by not Yevying tax on inccfe derived
fram farming. Similar incentives are also being given to fishermen.
2.   IndtLstrial Sector
11,      7¶~ industrial sector in 1stern-Sam   is still at an early
stage of developrent. The share of manufacturing in GDP (at producer
prices) is estimated at 5 per cent in 1978 and it rose to about 7 per
cent in 1984. Despite this relatively modest contribution to GDP,
industrial developtent has contributed increasingly in providing new
jobs, saving or earning foreign exchange, introducing new technology
and contributing to the diversification of the economy. About SO per
cent of the country's manufacturing sector is concentrated in the
processing of food, beverage amd tobacco. Notwithstanding the smaU
contribution to GDP, it is worth noting that the industrial sector
includes the country's largest export agencies such as the coonut oil
mill 1/, and producers of copra neal, coconut cream, beer, cigarettes
and  passion  fruit pulps.  The  main  objectives  for  industrial
developrent  in  DP5  are:  (i)  to  contribute  to  a  structural
strengthening of the country's balance of payments through
d i'ersification of agricultural base, expansion of exports and
strengtheing of inport substitution  industries;  (ii) to  further
increase the processing of the country's traditional agricultural
products; (4iii) to create employment opportunities; (iv) to develop
skills by encouraging the development of industries witlh a high local
value-added content; and (v) to encourage local entrepreneurship in
the form of joint ventures with foreign partners anod smal-scale
village industries.
12.      In the light of the various constraints, it is extremly
important that an attractive and sound environment is created for
industrial developient. At present, the Enterprises Tnoentives Act -
amended in 1984 rationalizing the system of inoentives for-industrial
development - provides, among others, for a uniform rate protection
for all im)port-competing industries, lawer duties, waiver of payments
of excise taxes, and provision of tax holidays. DP5 envisages that
these incentives will be constantly reviewed to ensure that real
incentives are maintained. This implies that the GoverTment's fiscal,
mDnetary and exchange rate policies should be designedA to provide
attractive invenLives for industrial develcpment. During DP5, an
lt The mill was constructed under Loan No. 318-SAM(SF) in the amount
of tUS$2.25 million approved on 13 Decemiber 1977.



industrial survey 1/ will be undertaken which is experted to formnulate
CCEensive recomiindations to enhance Western Sms`'s capability to
accelerate industrial developtent.
3.   Infrastructure Sector
(a) 9ocki nubectr
13.      Wstern Saroa is generally well served bI a network of main
and feeder roads which, in the past ten years, have been considerably
ixroved.  Tn 1984 the length of the road systn was estimated at
about 2,180 km, of which 945 km 2/ fonn part of the primary. road
netwrrk and 1,235 hm are fbeder and plantation acoess roads. 1{xsever,
insufficient access to inland areas remains one of the obstacles for
increasing agricultural production. Difficulties enccunterod with the
collection of cocnut and the lack of interest in replanting and
opening of new agricultural lands have frequently been attributable to
the lack of adeauate access roads. FPllowing the high priority placed
on the transport sector in the past developnent plans, the main
highway systen on Upolu Island has been substantially ccupleted hut
some inportant rural roads are in need of upgrading. With respect to
Saval'i Island, the main road systen has been recanstructed and sealed
with the exception of the North Coast Road and the Tnland bDad. The
total rnuner of vehicles in Wstern Samoa in 1984 ws  4,470 3/, up
fran 3,710 in 1978.
14.      Duing DPS, increased onhasis will be accorded to road
upgrading, inproved admdnistration, routine maintenance and periodic
rehabj.litation of the nation's transport assets. To rectify existing
deficiencies, maintenance of thia present road network will be given a
high priority, whereas extensions of the road system  will only be
undertaken  if considerable ecoaic gais are anticipated.  The
plantation access road program will be directed towards upgrading
those roads which serve well-established plantations. The program for
the road sector is divided into three groups: (i} upgrading of rural
roads; (ii) upgrading of urban roads; and (iii) inproving of
plantation access roads.
1/  The Survey will be carried out under a technical assistance fran
the sank (T7 No. 637-,SPMJ in the anxmot of US$301),000, approved
in 15 Novewber 1984, in conjunc'tion with Fifth DIMS roan (Loa
No. 707-SAM (SF)).
21  The primary road network consist of the follawing:
Paved      Unaved        'Ttal
Main roads (kn)           244         185          429
Secondary roads (Am)      nil         430          430
Apia town roads (k1m)      36          S0           86
Total (km)      280           6           %
3/  OCcvTrisinq 1498 private cars, 297 taxis, 1909 pifck-ups, 398
trucks, 187 buses, 144 aotorcycles and 37 others.



6
(1) Marine Subsector
15,      The hdrbor at Apia has wharfagr' available for two vessels of
up to 9 m draft, with additional berths for -naller vessels. Tug
servrice and storage facilities are available.  7here are regilar
sailings framn Apia to Europe, the tUnited States, Australia, New
Zealand, Japan and the major Pacific TsWands. A regional shipping
line, the Pacific Fonrm Line, was established in 1977 and provides
regular service between Western .Samoa, Fiji, Tanga, Nauru,, the Cook
Islands, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand and Australia. A
refrigerated container service is provided to several destinations.
several motor vessels provide passenger arnd cargo service betwen
WIestern Samoa and Amrican Samoa.  One passenger and two vehicular
ferries and mmerous other vessels cone t Upolu and Savai'i.
i r.     The marine sector developient schemes during DPS will place
emnphasis on: (i) maintaining and improving the safety and efficiency
of sea transport: (ii) upgrading of the goods handling facilities at
the Apia rbrt to cater to the shift to containerizaticn of inports and
exports; and (iii) providing adequate and safe access to the eyisting
pori- of Mulifanua, .Salelo]oya and Asau to support the developrent of
agricultural and forestry products. The main thrust of activities
dluring DP5 will evolve around efforts to provide adequate facilities
for the efficient handling of containerized imports and exports. This
requires urgent improvement of the facilities at the Apia Port. An
in-depth study 1/ on the developuent of transportation of agricultural
products both internally and externally recammended a rehabilitation
and upgrading of the wharf area to facilitate the ecoonaic and
efficient  handling  of containers.  Ihis  rehabilitation/upgrading
program would lead to a 30 per cent increase in handling productivity
and cope with the projected increase of traffic.
1J/  Western Sainoa Transportation Study, Novemhpr 1981, prepared by
Pak-Poy and Kreebone Pty. Ltd., and Associated Consultants; the
study was financed by the Australian Development Assistance
Burepau (ADAB).



7
III. THE P17T
A.  Scope of the ERoject
17.      The proposed Mltiproiect (the Project) consists of a grop
of high-pricrity public sector subprojects in the ao-iculture,industry
and infrastructure sectors in  esttern Sanxa.  The  ;ubprojects Will
provide directly or indirectly support fr production actdvities
(dousstic as well as export orieted Products)e   and
diversify the ecocdc base, enhance the generation of new e auic
activities and create effplyment opportunities. one these subrojects
are  oint, it is emisaged that they will help coslidate the
stabilization program and enhance efforts towards achieving further
ecnaic gr9wth. Four subprojects have been identified and selected
by the Govent and the Banr. for inclusion in the Poject. 7he
considerations detexmining the selection of the srojects wee:
(i) high priority accorded by the Government;
(ii) prima facie viability (econcmic, financial and
technical) s
(iii)  suitability for Bark financing; and
(iv) capacity to support directly and indirectly production
activities and reflect social considerations.
18.      Althfo  each subproject is prima facie suitable for BanI
financin, individual appraisals will be prepared for the Gowment
by the consultants to be engaged under the proposed
assistarwe frcoz the Bank (see Appendix 1), and subadtted by the
(Gcve nt to the Bank in sufficient tire to allow for approval 1/
before any funds are nade available for the subprojects.
B.  AgKaisal of Subprjects
19.      2tie appraisal reports of the subprojects to be prepared by
the consultants under the Bank's technical assistanoe will include the
follwing:  (i  description of the relevant subproject sector and
problems and difficulties in the sector; (il? descripticn of the
subproject scope and objectives; (iii) detailed cost estimates, split
into foreign and local costs, and confirmtion that the least cost
solution was selected; (iv) project inpleintation organization and
arrangenitrIts including staffing reuiremnts for plannig, organizin
and  control  of project activities  and  detailed  orgaizatioal
strue   and  staffing  to be developed  for the  operation  and
maintenance of the sutproject; (v) detailed inplementation schedule;
(vi) description of p      nt  prcedures to be followed; (vii)
financial  (here  applicable)  and  econmnic  justification  of the
1/  rea  Agreamnt,  Schedule  1, paragraphs 2 and 5; Schedule 5,
paragraph 5(b).



subproject;  (viii) explanation of the tecdnical sowudness of the
subproject; and (ix) description, and proposals for the minimdzation,
of adverse enviromental ijpacts, if any. 1/
20.     -The four sbects, proposed under the Loan are:  i) Mree
Crop Development: (ii) Construction of a Sall Industries Center
(SXC): (iii) Rural Roads Upgrading: and, (iv) COntainer Park Up-
grading. A description of these subprojects is given in parah  23
to 35. If any of these subprojects is found usuitable for Parnk
financing, it will be deleted and can be replaced by anther sub-
project provided that the selection criteria of the lank are
satisfied. The substitute subproject will be subritted to the Bank
for its review; DankIs approval will be subject to the required
financing from the Bank and IdA rsai     within the total of the Bank
loan and MRA credit. 2/
21.      In appraising the subprojects, certain ecnomic criteria
have been set. In the cas of the Tree Crop Development, the Rural
oads and the Container Park Upgrading, the subprojects must yield an
;IR of at least 12 per cent. In respect of the Srall Ihdustries
Center subproject, its operating principles should be based on
no-profit and no-loss which  plies   at sufficient revenues shuld be
geerated to recover the capital costs and to meet the recurrent costs
in the determination of charges to be levied from users of SIC. 3/
Also the appraisal of this subproject will inclucle review and assess-
mEnt of requirements for efficient mnanagseont and operation of SIC.
The findings and reczmnndtions will be discussed with the Bank
before implementation.
22.      Th the extent possible, effort will be nade to finalize the
appraisal of the subprojects simultaneously so that they can be
processed and approved by the Bank at the same time. If this does not
materialize, the Bank nay approve and ocmmit funds for a subproject as
and when appraisal of the subproject is completed and found
satisfactory by the Bank.
C.  Descripicn of f9qbEMieqts
1.  Tree Crop Develorment Sukbroiect
23.      Over the last six years, the Department of Agriculture,
Forests and Fisheries (DAFF) has been conducting research on hybrid
coconut, and improved varieties of ooooa and coffee. This research
has indicated that the productivity of these crops could be greatly
increased through the introduction to farmers of the inproved planting
materials together with appropriate levels of inputs and good
husbandry. The objective of this subproject is to introduce such a
progran and, through further investigation, to seek ways of diversi-
fying the traditional cropping pattern with new crops for eventual
ccmercial production.
l/  Loan Agresxent, Sceue S, paragraph 5 (a).
2/  Loan Agreenent, Schedule 1, paragraph 4.
3/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraphs 5(a) (vii) and 16.



9
24.      The subproject ccnprises a planting proam  for the three
crops craprising about 2,000 acres (800 ha) of hybrid coconut, about
800 acres (320 ha) of Anelonado cocoa and about 300 acres (120 ha) of
inproved Robusta coffee which w,uld be inplemnted over nix years
(1986 to 1991). The suproject will strengthen the extension servioes
of DAFF by providing specialist staff and consultant services for the
production and developnt of the tree crops. The existing extension
services staff of DAFF will provide support and assistance in the
inplementation of this sukbroject through close cooperation  with
specific crops  specialists.  The assistance wuld  include identi-
fication of potential farmer participants, provision of field
nurseries,  and  planting  and maintenane  of  selected  crops.  /
Agricultural credit to finance fanexrst developrment cost will be
provided by the Developtent Bank of Western Samoa (DEM) fran its
resources including those made available under the Fifth DEW3 loan. 2/
1he DThWS loan-s to farmers will cover the cost of plantinq materials,
fertilizers, agricultural chemicals and part of the cost of hired
labor. The provision of credit for the supply of planting mterials,
which will be sold at cost, will enable the Gove   ent to recover that
part of the Project cost directly fran fanters. The program will be
directed to private farmers on both the main islands (Upolu and
Savai i). Provision of planting aterial for the subproject will be
ensured by support for the existing Hybrid Cocomut Seed Garden at
Olaianu in the west of Upolu Island and by the establishment  of
coconut seedling nurseries which will be located according to the
plantincr program. Jnproved planting material of cooa and coffee will
be supplied fran the existing Nu 'u Crop Development Station near Aria.
3/
25.       Tn support of the GCvernment's objective of diversifying
crop production, the suhproject will provide services and facilities
to intensify assessment of the potential for introducing new crops,
identify sources, and airrange importation of planting material. Pilot
plots (1 to 10 acres, or 0.4 to 4 ha) of new crops will be established
on land belongi   to private  farmers who will be provided with
planting material, inputs and technical advice on a grant basis while
they would provide the land and labor inputs needed to establish the
new crops. 4/
26.      The subproject includes provision of consultant services
caprising a Crop Diversification Agroncadist (18 man-months), a
Coconut Specialist (36 man-months) and a Cocoa/Coffee Specialist (36
man-months) and training. The terms of reference for the consultants
are given in Appendixes 2 and 3.
1/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 11.
2/  loan  No.  707-SM4(SP)  approved  on  15  NovenbIer  1984;  Loan
Agreemnnt, .Schedule 5, paragraph 12.
3/  Loan Agreeptent, Schedule 5, paragraph 13.
4/  Loan Agreement, -Schedule 5, paragraph 14.



10
2.  Small Industries Center (SIC)   hpropect
27.       In  order  to  encourage  the  expansion  of existing  and
establishment of new small-scale industrial enterprises, a saall
industries center (SIC) within the existing Vaitele Industrial Estate
(about 6 kIin west of Apia) will be established. This. subproject
onsists of site developient, access roadway, utility connections
(water and  power  supply, teleccmnuications  and  sewerage), and
construction of factory sheeds partitioned toprovide suitably spaced
work areas.  Initially, factory space amounting to about 800 sq m is
proposed. A list of facilities and items proposed for procurement is
given in Appendix 4, Table C. The subdivision of the total area in
individual factory sheds and subdivided work areas has not yet been
determined;, the exact ctxqoosition will- be derived frcun a detailed
assessmrent of anticipated demand for factory space by local entre-
preneurs based on an assessment of prima facie econanic viability of
their respective proposed activities. i/ The industrial survey which
is expected to be undertaken during Fhe last quarter of 1985 under
Bank technical assistance will provide useful input to SIC (see
paragraph 59).
2.R.     Once ccmpleted, the facbory space will be available for rent
to  loca]  enterpneneurs,  either  independent or  in  joint venture
association with foreign partners.  Rents will be set at suitable
levels that will allow the recovery of capital costs and recurrent
costs for administering and maintaining SIC.  The Gnwernmnvt will
periodically  review  the  rent  in  order  to  make  the  necessary
adjustnents. 2/  Given the limited financial resources of local
enterpreneurs, the availability of well-serviced industrial sites and
factory space will overcome the financing gap they would  otherwise
face in expanding existing plant or establishing a new productive
enterprise. This approach to the establishment of a small industries
center has been successfully inplemented in Tbnga with Bank financial
assistance. 3/
3. Rural Roads Upgrading Subproject
29.      The Rural Roads subproject ccuprises the upgrading of about.
29 km of rural roads 4/ in the eastern part of the island of Upolu.
The roads which are proposed for upgrading are: (i) the Falevao to
1/  Subject to their suitability as ascertained during appraisal by
the consultants under the Bank technical assistance, the steel
portal frames and materials of Shed No. 2 to he removed from the
Apia Wharf (see paragraph 34) may be used for this subproiect.
2/  loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 16.
3/  Loan No. 335-7UM(SF) Small Industries Center Project and Loan No.
435-TON(SF) Multiproject Loan, approved in D-cember 1977 and
December 1979, respectively.
4/  Recause these road constitute basic links in the road network,
they are classified as main roads (see paragraph 13).



11
Vaipu section of the Te Mafa Pass which .Ans fran Falefa to Wtofaga;
and (ii) the Richardson (Atua) Road running betueen Vaipu and Sanusu.
As these roads constitute basic links in the road networks, the"' are
classified  as main roads  (see  footnote  at paragraph  13).  The
selection of these roads is based on a transportation study undertaken
in 1981, which reviewed the entire road network of Western Sanoa. l/
The road sections selected for upgrading aererd frcmt this study as
two of the mrost viable road projects, with preliminary F.T:Ps amounting
to 25 and 22 per cent respectively. The upgrading of these rnads was-
included in 13P5. The three districts 2/ traversed or directly served
bv the proposed  Project roads have a total population of about
10,000. 3/f
30.      The Le Mafa Pass is the only cross-island road link in the
southeastern third of the island of Upolu connecting the 5:ast Coast
road and the South Coast road.   rmi the undulating to hilly coastal
areas, this road passes through the imtainous interior of Te Mafa.
Scue stretches of the existing road have a bituminous surface, but the
remining 18 km is  gravel-surfaced.  Heavy  rainfall ccvbined with
generally inadequate road drainage and many steep grades - sca in
excess of 10 per cent - have restulted in severe erosion of the gravel
pavement. As a result, vehicle operating and road maintenance costs
are high. It is proposed that the 8.6 kcm northern section of this
road will be upgraded under the Project fran Falevao, where the
existing asphalt pavement ends, to Vaipu, where the Richardson Rad
branches off. This section of the ye Mafa Pass fonns the access to
the Richardson Road.  The width of the existing gravel carriageway
ranges fran 4.5 m to 6.5 m. The road nns partly along an escarpnent;
major inprovenets to its gecmetrics wmld, therefore, be very costly
and in the light of the relatively small amount of traffic - 135
vmehicles per day- seen unwarranted. The i      Iprnt of this section
of the road will he limited to minor corrections of the gecietrics,
improvement of the drainage and sealing of the paveent. The Le Mafa
Pass Road is considered to be the most scenic route- of the ountry and
is iiortant to the tourist industry.
31.      The original 19-han Pichardson Road (track), was constructed
about five years ago (1980). The road connects the villages of the
southeast of Upolu to the Te Mafa Pass Road which is at its western
terminus at Vaipu.  The existing  carriageway is narrow, 4 m to 5 m
17  western Samoa Transportation Study, Novenker 1981, prepared by
Pak-Poy and Kneebone Pty fram Australia; the stucdy was financed
by ADAB.
2/  Western Samoa is divided into 22 districts of which 13 on Upolu
and 9 on Savai'i.
3/  The three districts were among the five in which population
decreased during the period 1971-1981, a trend which was reversed
only after 1981, after the Le Mafa Pass road was inproved and the
Richardson road was constructed.



12
wide, with a gravel surface. In the western porticn of the road, the
terrain is mountainous and the grades are steep and substandard,
rainfall is heavy (at the junction of the Le Mafa Pass and the
Richardson Dad at Vaipu, average annual rainfall is about 5900 nmr)
and maintenance costs are high.  The remainder of this roa( as it
apra*ces the east coast traverses undulating to hilly terrain. The
grawel surface of the Richardso  Rad is severely eroded in scrae of
the steeper sections and drainage is generally inadequate throughout
its -length causing severe rutting at many locations. The road is
barely  passable by other than  faer-idl drive vehicles.  The
Government proposes to inprove the road through              of the
vertical aligment and drainage, and by protecting the pavent
structre with a bituninous surface. It is also proposed to provide a
bituminous surface to about 1.5 km of gravel road south of Samusu to
onnect the inprved richardson -Road to the existing paved road
section along the island's east coast.
4. Container Park Upgrdin Supoject
32.      Containerization  has reoetly  becne one of the most
prevalent nethods of cargo hardling. In major ports, containerization
has partly substitutel the conentional or break-bulk nethod.
Containerization has the effect of reducing the amout of labor
required and speeds up the prooess of cargo-handling. Western Sama
must adapt to new system of cargo-handling introduced in the
metrcpolitan ports of other countries trading with Western Sarma.
?his calls for the provision of modern cargo-handling facilities
(container parking areas, etc.).  In  view  of this, deve'. :ping
countries such as Western Samoa vust nuke investnents in essential
port facilities in order to rain a port of call for international
shipping lines. An organized container terminal also contributes
tomrds a more econcmic utilization of the wharf and speeds up the
process of cargo-handling which will help minindnze spoilage of
agricultural products.
33.      At present, the annual volune of oontainer traffic  is
approximately 6,000 TEU (20-ton equivalent units) which are being
handled in several make-shift areas on the wharves. On any one day
there are a- out 300 containers stored in the port area. Although
atout 65 per cent of its cargo is now containeri.sAd 1/, the port has
virtually no facilities normally regarded as esseintial fr,r such
operations.  Consequentl-, the  port  cloos not beneli   f vr  the
advantages of containerization.
1/ Tn 1984 the port of Apia was visited by a total of 223 ships,
amng which 192 cargo vessels and 24 tankers. Cargo landed
armounted to 89,000 tons, cargo shipped to 48,000 tons.



13
34.     7te proposed subproject will upgrade the ontainer park at
the Apia Farf. I/ The subproject involves the following   on:
-   pavinq the working areas dnd roads within the  aound
(approximtely 24,000 sq m};
-       1installin  an organized container mashalling yard which
calls for the orderly laying dom Of containerf slots duly
out and nunerec in-clearly defined areas of the
port;
- dismantling Shed No. 2 which was damaged by fire, to provide
space for the storage of containers cn an organized
container park; and
-   overauling scme shed roofs, lighting, drainage, and fire
fighting equipcnt
35.      The Marine Division of the Ministry of Transport (M") is
curently assisted by a Marine/Port Consultant under the Cmmwealth
Fund for Tecimical Cooperation (CFVT) assistanoe. She oansultant has
helped the Gorennent to inproe the port operations. As the presence
of similar expertise wild also be required for the subproject, the
extension of his services or the recruiternt of his replacant will
be needed and shoud be prvided by the Gverrnent in order to ensure
the successful ilemanttion of the subproject. 2/  The Gannenlt
will prvide the availability of competent staff to ense the
capability of Mlr to carry out the rncessary work. 3/ The possibility
of reorganizing the port operations as an autcrcams authority will be
reviewed by the Govrnmt and the cutcace of suh a review will be
xiuuicated to the Bank within one year after the date of loan
effectivity. 4/
D. Enviromneztl Aspects
36.      No adverse enviromwntal effects are expected to be caused
by the Project. The Tree crop Developuent subproject is expected to
inprve the land utilization.  the proposed SIC is not expected to
affect the eviromental conditions adversely since it will be located
within the Vaitele industrial estate which has already been in
aperation for several years. Cnversely, as most of the existing
industxies are currently located in residential areas, pollution utld
be reducd since these industries will have to be relocated and the
proposed SIC will provide the required location which will partly
1= seWn  are cosi-stent with recmntions made in the
COntainer Park StudY Apia Harbour, 1984. fhis study was financed
by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
lONDA) and was undertaken by Prt and Transport Consulting
Bremn, QnbH, frmn the Fbderal Republic of Genuan.
2/  During loan negotiations, the Governt informed the Barnc that
the servies of the consultant have been extended.
3/  Laan Agree1ent, Schedule 5, paragraph 4(c).
T/  Tean Agreaent, Schedule 5, paragraph 18.



14
mitigate existing pollution problem. It is further envisaged that
devises for pollution control will be incorporated in SIC.   oved
wrking conditions are expected in SIC since the proposed facilities
would provide a better enviromrent.
37.      The roads to be zMproved uner the poosed Project will
follow existing horizontal alignments. Land acquisition for the
purpose of constructing or widening of  Oants  and cuts will
generally be limited to areas immediately bordein  the existing
road, and to sate selected areas for the opernig of the borrow pits.
No existi-ng houses will have to be detolished.  3hprcn  of the
drainage of the new road will reduce detrinental ponding of water.
Dust pollution frao  the existing gravel roads, a nuisance if not a
health hazard to both the adjacent population and to road users
(drivers, passengers and pedestrians) will be eliminated through the
provision of bituminous surfacing. An adverse effect of bituminizing
of gravel roads is, in general, an increase in the accident rate
resulting fran the increased traffic volume and higher vehicle
operatin  speeds which are inherent in inproved road facilities;
hwver, a careful review by the Project Consultants of the design and
the design standards for the inproved roads will minimdze this effect.
38.      At present the container park is dusty during ' e dry seasn
and beset with puddles during the rainy season. After the  eiant
of the Apia Wharf Container Park, containers will be traort  over
a level pavement, instead of through potholes and puddles as is
presently the case.  The containers w:_l be stored in an organized
œwuier at pre-determined slots.  Overall the proposed inprovIIts
will enhance the safety of the port operations in general, and of the
dock workers and other harbor personnel in particular.
E. Cost Estimates
39.      The total Project cost, including consulting services,
contingencies, service charge during construction, and taes and
duties is estimated at US$9.75 million of which US$6.69 million (69
per cent) would be the foreign exchange cost and US$3.06 milion (31
per cent wmld be the local currency cost.  lhe base cost for the
individual suRbprojects is estimated at US$1.86 million for Tree Crop
Develcpyent, US$0.63 million for the Snall Irdustries Center, U8$3.44
million  for Rural Roads Upgrading and US$0.49 millicn  for the
Container Park Upgrading (details of these cost estimates are shamn in
Table 1, page 16 and in Appendix 5).
40.      About US$0.5 million of the total Project costs will be in
grants as tecnical assistance fran the Bank and UNDP amounting to
US$0.25 million each. The Bank's technical assistance grant will be
mainly for the subproject appraisal, while the UNIDP grant will be for
Project supervision and implementation (see paragraphs 83-85).



15
F. Fircix Pla
41.      The proposed Bank loan of US$4.4 million frum the Special
Funds resouroes will finance part of the direct and indirect foreign
exhange cmsts including service charge durig construction, and snte
local costs. The Bank loan is about 45 per cent of total Project cost
including taxes anc duties.
42.      in addition to the Bank loan, the  oeMn ent has requested
an IDA credit ammting to US$2.5 million to co-finace I/ the
Project; of this credit about US$2.06 million will be to meet $oreign
exchange cost and US$0.44 million to meet part of the local cost. ffe
cedit, whch will be acministered- by the Bank, will co-finan  on a
joint basis with the Bank the costs of the Tree Crop Developaent and
the Rural Roads mbprojects.
43.      In conjuncticn with the loan, the Bank will provide a
technical assistance grant amonting to US$250,000 to help the
Goeruient in appraising the individual suprojects. The consultants
under this technical assistarne will also help in establishing the
Project Eecuting Office and assist in reviewing the detailed design
and specifications of major civil works and various aspects of
ternering including bid preparation and evaluation (see paragraph 83
and Appendix 1).
44.      UNDP wi ll also provide technical assistance for project
supervision  and  impleventation.   The  total  grant  amts  to
US$250,000. The Bank has been requested to act as executing agency
for this technical assistance (see paragraph 85 and Appendix 2).
45.      The Borromer will be the Independent State of Western Sam:a.
The Gvernant has agreed to provide about US$2.35 milion equivalent
(including US$0.62 million equivalent in taxes and duties) to ntet a
substantial part of the local cost. The Project Cost and Financing
Plan is shown in Table 1.
46.      The amatmt allocated to each subpoject is tentative and
the actual allocations will be firmed up after each subproject is
prepared and appraised for the Govermnent by the consultants to be
engaged under the propsed Technical Assistance  (see paraph 83).
Individual subprojects will be subeitted fcr Bank approval for
finacing under the proposed loan.  If any of the listed subprojects
is found not viable, a substitute subproject may be intr ce  or a
new one may be added with the approval of the Bank. 2/
1/   h proposed Project wili be the first Multiproject Loan to be
co-financed by IBM  since the  introduction  of co-financing
operations between the tw institutions in 1980. (ADD-World Bank
Co-financing in the South Pacific, Board Paper IN.149-80, 25
September 1980).
21  Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4.



16
%ble 1. -F            ES' i
EX   IC  1Di ,X P             C  tca2  EX              t ,a
Te OM Dr 1.61   673                     -     673   675    100   775    -   413    423
630   380     170    550    -        -     -      -    80      s0
Rul R
q*agm                 3436  1600       -    1600   920    300   122D   -   616    616
Cbesamr Paz
tqgzazur               486   360       75    435    -       -      -     -    51      51
BW C}..;t      i       63  3013        245   325 1598     400   1996   -  116D1160
3:1. 11
Prim                  2D77  1027       10   1037   465      40   5a5    -   535    53
91t l4M                       0        255   4      20 2952su   o    0    -        _  1095
m. CadOs
Mc                      l5    105 DS     -    1a;      -      -    -      -       -    -
Tm, DutJm ad
0          s           6Z2     - -         -      -          -    -      -   6Z    622
Sbz*aL                  727    105                                             6 22 -  _ .  6
TV.  ebradtwI a/
535   490      10    SW       -       _    _35 _5
(lst                  9752  4635      265   4900  200    440  20    -             2232
.   _  ,       _    ,,   _                    _       _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,
a/ IMP aUi W* tBhrdcal amin'ismE  zatsf 9S I$0010 eh ac  Qm GAM         t E rpt (   1,0).
7 7



17
IV. PRDWMF  T 1lENTATICN
A. Proiect Executing Ahe2n  and ProjeCt Cordination
47.      The fwur sbprojects prloed to be included in the Project
fall under the jtuisdicticn of different Gvrent departments.  Tb
ensure adbsjate coordinaticn, the Treasury Depart within the
supervision of the Minister of Finance, will act as the Project
Executing Agency. I/ Such an aproach is expected to establish more
effective codinaon for the Project thn would be possible if thee
wre separate execting agencies for individual surojects and -will
facilitate prupt provision of necessary local funds for the Project.
The teasury Departmnt is the -logical. choice for such respoibility
since contracts and payments concerning all develcpmnt assistance
projects are presently being chaelled through this Deaent and
several staff of its Finance Division are famdliar with Bankr's
prFocedures    OWFurhre, the use of on  executing agency will
siiiplify  fund dirsEnents and ensure that the  loan proceeds
allocated to individual subprojects will renain within the total loan
amunt.
48.      lo further facilitate coordinaticn in the imt1eTentation of
the four sbojects, a Project Crdinat   C ittee (POC) will be
established within the Executing Agency within two mnths after the
effective date of the Bank loan. 2/  Ihe FiHrcial Secretary will be
the  Project Coordinator and  will  be  resposible  for overall
coordination and execution of the Project. He shall chair the PO(
which will have the following senior GDvermnt officials as nmbters:
the Director of the Deprtment of Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries
(DWFF); the Director of the Departnt  of Pblic Wbrks (MPW); the
Director of the Departmt of Ecnmaic Develcpent (DM) and the
Assistant Secretary for the Marine Division of the Ministry of
Transport (M). The KC will meet at least once a mnth and will be
responsible for overall planning and schedaling and periodic reviews
of the progress of individual subproject and of the Project as a
whole.
49.      Tlhe Government will establish within the Executing Agency a
Project Executing Office (PiM) within tw months after the effective
date of the Bark loan. The PM will be headed by the Deputy Financial
Secretary who will be the Project Afninistrator. Uner the guidance
of the Project Aibinistrator, PRO will be assisted by two qualified
existing staff of the Finance Division of the Treasury Department
I/ -In AiSitiedule- 5, pararaph 1. The chief operational
responsibilit-ies of the Treasury Depart rest with  the
inancia1 Secretary, who is assisted by a Depty Financial
Secretary.  Total staff of the Treasury Department amot to
about 115.
2/  Loan Agreeffnt, Schdule 5, paragraph 1.



18
initially by the consultants to be recriitei tnder the Bank's
technical assistance and subsequently bv the consultants to be
recruited under the UNDP technical assistance. Under the guidance of
the Projwct Administrator, PBO will be responsible for thee day-to-day
requirements of coordinating the preparation of subproject appraisals,
supervising the implentation of subpojects, chaneling fuds to the
lIplaerkIng Agencies, and liaising with the Bank, IDA, 1UDP, and any
other  agency  concernrd  with  Project  inplemntation.  1/  An
organizational dcat of the PBD is shrn in Appedix 6.
50.      In order to ensur-e wooth execution and Iiplementation of
the Project, the GDverment will inform the Bank of any changs in the
positions of Project Coordinator, Project Administrator or of any
other key personnel ir. the lnlienting Agencies.  In the event of
such chages, the Gaverzent will ensure that suitably qualified ard
experienced  persons, of at least the  sie  seniority  as their
predeessors, are appointed as replacemnts. 2/
51.      The Mission is satisfied that the Executing Agency, with the
assistance of the Project Coordination Cmmittee and the Implementing
Agencies, will be capable of izpleuenting the Project satisfactorily.
B.  MTlguentin Agewies
52.      Each subproject will have an IWlem!enting Agency which will
be resposible for the actual inpleentation and execution of the
cnn    subproject, including  all technical, constructicn  and
pr    nt activities, under the overall coordination of the Project
Adkidnistrator. These Tlzplenenting Agencies are:
(i) for the Tree Crop Developrent subproject: Department of
Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries (MFF) in association
with the Development Bank of Western Sama (DEM);
(ii)  for the SIC subroject: Departmnt of Elncic
Developtent (DPD) in association with the Departznt of
Public Works (DPW";
(iii) for the Rural Foads subproject: MYW; and
(iv) for the Container Park subproject: Marine Division of the
Ministry of Transport (MDr) in association with t)W. 3/
1.  Deparm t. of Agriculture, Fbrests and Fisheries (DAFF)
53.      DAT was created to prcRlte and encourage all agricultural
activities, maintain and inprove both quality and quantity of agri-
cultural produce, prawte conservation, production and developnent of
natural resouroes, and regulate fish and fish products. The charter
1/  Loan Agreinent, Schedule 5rj;pragraph 2.
2/  Loan Agreemnt, Schedule 5, paragraph 4.
3/  Toan Agreqnt, Schedule 5, paragraph 3.



19
establishing DAFF made no provision for it to manage agricultur-'1
production directly on custanary land and its appropriate spher'e of
activities thus lies in the prcrKtion, provision and overall oxor-
dixiation of agricultural support services to villaqe and corm-.rcial
prs
54.      The  present oranizational structure has evolved  in a
pieemal  fashion  and  emhasizes  countrywide  rather  than  the
gecxraphical and functional groupings of activities. DAFF is urder the
responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and its organization is
subdivided into seven main divisions concerned with extension, crops,
forestry, livestock, fisheries, produce inspection and regulation, and
ecomanic analysis and plamning. 1/ DAFF is headed by the Director of
Ariculture, Forests and Fisherfes assisted by a- Deputy Director and
seven Division Heads (Assistant Directors). It has a total staff of
about 200 permanent employees 2/ (15 managerial staff, 57 senior
technical staff, 102 tehnical assistants, the reining being support
staff) and about 50 wage earners.
55.      Like other public sector organizations in Western Sanma,
DAP? suffers fram a "brain drain" for which there is no obvious
solution. For the purpose of the Tree Crop Subproject, however, the
shortcinings of DAFr are not considered to be serious because the
cxnents of the subproject are based on well-,anaged progras within
DAFF and the Project will provide adequate cnmsultant services to
support impleamntation.  Furthenrore,  the  training  opportunities
provided under the Project should go scaua way in meeting the need for
.ore qualified personnel. Generally, activities that receive external
support are carried out more efficiently than other works.
2. DeveLopret Bank of Western Sa-m    D)S)
56.      Fbllowing Bank Technical Assistance 3/, DEWS was established
in 1974 as a statutory entity wholly aied Fv the Givxrmient. The
authorized share capital of DEBS is WS$5 million. t/ DEW's main
1/  MF is also responsible for agricultural quarantine, veterinary,
mreat inspecticn services and the Meteorological Service.
2/  In addition, there are 16 vacancies in senior positions in DAP?.
VY/  T1 No. 80-SAM, in the amount of US$217,000, approved in January
1973.
41 Pesides equity, the Goverrnment provides substantial financial
suport to DEWS. DBWS has recived five loans fran the Bank:
Loan No. 218-SAM(UF) in the amount of MS$1.0 million, approxem  in
March 1975;
Loan No. 287-SAM (SF) in the amount of US$3.0 million, approved in
flcenber 1976;
Loan No. 366-SAM(SF) in the ammut of US$4.0 million, apprroved in
Novenber 1978;
Toan No. 527-Sl(SF) in the amount of US$4.0 million, approved in
Septenber 1981; awx;
Joan No. 707-SAM(SF) in the amint of US$4.0 million, approved in
November 1984.



20
function is to prcnxte the  xpansion of the Western San econem  by
making  loans  and  providing  financial,  technical  and  advisory
assistance to ary suitable enterprise and developaent project in
Western Samoa.  As the sponsor and owner of DF1', the Governmnt
appoints all ten muwbers of DfE3W's Board of Directors.  The Chairmn
of the Board is the Financial Secretary.  Three members of D13WS's
Board  represent       A      departents  concerned  with  econct*dc
developent and ensure that MW5's operations are consistent with the
Gmvernmint' s developient plans. mhe other six m5nbers represent the
private sector. Within this franwrk DMMGS has cperational autoncry.
57.      The Board of Dlirectors mets once a nvnth to provide overall
direction, to discuss policy matters and to approve loans exoeeding
ME$10,000.  Below  this  amount, Df5's  managemnt can  sanc.;ion
proposals.  DBIs a operational procedures for loan processing, do
uentations, prure" nt, disbursehnt and supervision are generally
satisfRctory. Its appraisal procedures arn sbiple but adequate
particularly for small and medium-sized agricultural projects. The
presnt interest rate charged by DBS for agricultural loans is 10 per
cent per annuim.
58.      The chief executive of DENS is the General Manager who is
assisted by an Assistant General Manager and divisional mnagers. The
General Manager and the Assistant General Manager are appointed by the
Qovernment.  All managent staff are Western  Samnsm  and  are
perfonning effectively. DB; has a staff of about 90.
3.  Department of Rcx,nanic Development (DED)
59.      DM) is under the Minister of FAcomic Affairs and is
responsible for the formulation of National Ecoamnic Planning.  DED
also functions as the Govrnment's regulatory and prceKtional agency
for industrial, trade and marketing and tourism deevelopmnts. DED has
formulated the Fifth Development Plan, 1985-1987, as well as previous
Plans and administered the Enterprises Incexntives Acts i'ihich provide
incentives for industrial developnent - such as lowr duties, waiver
of payment-s of excise taxes and provision of tax holidays. In order
to identify priorities in the industrial aector, an Industrial Sector
Survey  will be  tndertaken  under Bank  technical  assistance  in
conjunction with the Fifth DJQs Loan. 1/ The Survey will evaluate the
existing incentives and other legisla'tion affecting industrial
prcmotion, assess the existing  institutional  framework, identify
industries needing prnmntion and define the role of D1-QS in
acceleratinq industrial development.
60.      DMi has two main functions, i.e. Planning and Operational
(Regulatory).  The Planming function is undertaken by the National
1/  loan No. 707-SAW(SF) amounting to US$4.0 million and TA No. 637
amuntiig to 1S$350,000 of which USS5OO000 to be financed by
UnDP.



21
Planning Division. The Operational (regulatory) functiom is carried
out by the Industry, Trade ard ?4arketing, and Tauri am Div3 sions. «he
total staff strength of NV is 12.  Frmn time to time TD1  received
techical assistance for specific assiqnmrts, but so far it has not
succeeded in maintaining sufficient capable staff because of the
unattractive level of rermmraticn and ep3oymnt prospects.  A unit
wil be fond in DTD to adnistr and to nonage SIC, for the pirpose
of which the Govenmunt has agreed to recruit an industrial economist
and an industrial engineer. Suitable incentives to these two staffs
will be provided by the Gvexument. These incentives nmy be financed
under the Loan for the first two years of SIC operation and, there-
after the incentives will be financed by the  ovexnment. 1/
4.^ Uepartment of Public Wbrks (DRW
61.      DPW owes under the Ministry of Wbrks and is responsible for
the planning, design, construction, maintenance and administration of
roads and major buildings.  In addition, DPW has the techical
responsibility for all ccnstruction work related to airport, water
supply and town planning projects. DPW's headquarters is located in
the capital Apia, with a subsidiary office En Salelologa, on the
island of Savai'i.
62.      DIPW staff has a total strength of about 740 and is headed by
the Director of Works. 2/ DPW has difficulty in recruiting and
retaining qualified local staff for senior positions resulting in
about 20 vacant positions in the higher levels.  cx,ver, DPW has been
utilizing the services of expatriate staff provided under various
bilateral developent cooperation and volunteer progrars including the
Australian Staffing Schere, the NKw Zealand Bilateral Aid Program, the
Netherlads Suppleentation Scie, the Japmese Overseas Cooperation
Volunteers and the U.S. Peace COrps. 3/
5. marine Division of the Ministry of Transport (M)
63.      The administration of the ports of Western Samoa falls undeL
MrY, 4/ which is headed by an Assistant Secretary, Mae4ne and Shipping
and his a total staff of about 60 including wage earnes. NPM is not
engaged in the actual cargo-handling and port operation: ship loading
and distcharging, and shed work are perforned by several pril.ate
stevedoring ccapanies. MDT collects the various port and cargo fees -
17- Loan Agre&eent, Schedule 5, paragraph 4(b).
2/ Er'd-1984 figures; these staff cauprise 230 permanent staff and
about 500 wage-earers In additicn, DPW erploys a variable
number of short-term casual laborers, up to about 350.
3/  Presently, bilaterally provided expatriate staff in DPW consist
of 11 Japanese, two New Zealanders and one Dutch national.
4/  MDT, together with the Department of Health and the Departments
of Post Office and Teleoauuuications, and Radio, is under the
responsibility of one Minister, viz., the Minister of Health.



22
which were substntially increased in 1984 - and is responsible for
the various ferry services between the islands of Upolu and Savai'i.
Since Mr is not an autonxwus port authority, it does not manage the
port finances. All port revenwes are remitted to the Treasury and
expenditures are made frcm Government hbdgetary allocations. Revenues
considerably exceed expenditures, particularly since the introduction
of rew tariffs in May 1984. 1/ Most expenditures are for opera.ing
outlays 2/ and little is spent on investients and   mevRnts.
C. Procureent
64.      Procurment to -be finmced under the Bank loan will be
carried out by the concerned inplementing agencies under the overall
coordination of the Project Adninistrator.  Procurement will be in
accordarne with the Bank's Guidelines for Prctet. Procurement of
equipment and materials will be undertaken on te basis of Inter-
national Shopping; supply contracts will be arranged in such a  mr
that the tender packages will attract bidders. 3/ The Governent has
agreed to exenpt or otherwise bear the cost of iport duties and other
levies on all equipent and materials iwported for the Project. 4/
With respect to the Tree Crop Development subproject, the required
agricultural inputs wuld be procured by DAFF in accordance with
International Shopping procedures under the Bank's Guidelines for
Procuremt. Civil works required for this subpxoject, as well as for
SIC and the Container Park subprojects as shon in Appendix 4 are
relatively snail and are not expected to attract the interest of
international construction firms. There are several local construction
firnms considered caopetent to undertake the type of civil wrks
required. Contracts for the civil works for these subprojects will be
awarded to prequalified local contractors selected in accordance with
local ccmpetitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. S/ The
1/  In 1984, the Port of Apia revenues and expenditures amounted to
WS$752,300 and WS$388,700 respectively.
2/  Tn 1984, 45 per cent of the expenditures concerned salaries and
wages, 23 per cent operation of vehicles and 11 per cent
electricity and fuel.
3/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraphs 3 and 4.
4/  Lnan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 19.
S/  Inan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraphs 4 and 8.



23
stateied   construction   fim,  Special  Projects   Developat
Coporation  (SIV) 1/, wuld be eligible to participate in the
bidding.
65.      The civil works construction for the Rural Roads Upgrading
subpzject will be unrtaken by a contractor to be selected on the
basis of nternational Ccspetitive Bidding (ICB) in accorda   with
the Bank's Qxidelines for   E     t.  2/  In spite of its present
poor financal posiition (see paragraph  )6), SPDC -  the only local
citractor techniclly and equipment-wiae capable of unrtaking major
road construction projects -ould be eligible to participate in the
bidding.
66.      Although the technical capacity and general capability of
SPDC to undertake the road construction wrk are at present generally
adequate, SPDC's financial positicn is far from satisfactory. 3/ In
case SPX  sutmits the lowest response bid for the road wrks, SPD
will be subject to post qualification and the contract will not be
awared to SWC unless, and prior to the signing of the contract, the
Goverment adopts reiedial measures satisfactory to the Bank of the
tiiely  paymnt, convesion  into  equity  as appropriate, or the
provision of any other suitable assistance to settle the outstanding
dbligations of SP so that its debts will not adversely affect the
cash-flow requirements and financial capacity of SPVC to execute and
cimlete the omtract in accordance with its tems. 4/ Should SPe
lose the tender, its involvemnt in the road cnstnrcion aculd be as
a subontractor to the successful bidder.
1/  Pbr the corstruction of the Bank-assisted Faleolo Airport and
Road Project (Loa  No. 25-SAM(SP), in the anmot of US$2.4
million, approved in DeceDer 1969), the Govemient created in
1970 a Special Project Division (SPD) under the responsibility of
the Director of Public Works. mTe establishrent of such division
was de.twd justified for the following reasons:
(a) it was felt neoessary to establish in Western Sanma a
special construction task force and train staff and workers
that could be of long-tern utility to the country;
(b) in view  of the isolated location of Western Samoa, an
appropriate cmtractor might not be found in tim, and even
when one could be found, the engagement of a foreign
contractor might result in high overhead cost in relation to
the size of the job.
Moreover, the establisluent of a semi-independent construction
unit, rather than the practicxe Or leaving the work to be done
through normal force account constnrction procedures had an
advantage  in  that transactions  and  activities  of project
execution could be separated frmn the routine transactions of the
Dlepartment of Public Works and other Goverrment deartus and
agencies. In order to ensure greater degree of flexibility, SPD
was incorporated in 1972 as a statutory boy- called the Special
Projects Developnent Corporation (SPDC).
2/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraph 6(a).
3/  SPDC's debts canprise an overdraft on the Bank of Westem Samoa
of WS$2.0 million and a debt to creditbors - mostly overseas - of
WS$1.2 million. SPDC's assets are estimated at WS$2.5 million.
4/  Loan Agreent, Schedule 3, paragraph 7.



24
D. Consultants
67.      In addition to the consultants to be provided under the
advisory technical assistance grant (see paragraph 83), three
consultants, viz., a Coonut specialist, a Cocoa and Coffee Specialist
and a Crop Diversification Agronaudst, will be required to assist the
Goverrnent  in  the  inplentation  of the  Tree Crop Developrent
subriectv. The costs of two of these cnsultants, viz., the Cocnt
Specalist and the Cocoa/Coffee Specialist will be fully covered under
the Loan and the MA Credit. Both consultants will be recruited for a
period of 36 man-nDths each. The cost of the services of these
consultants, exclusive of contingencies is estimated at US$720,000.
The Government has agreed that the required cnsultants (the coconut
specialist and the . cocoa/coffee specialist) will be recruited in
accordace with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. 1/
68.      The third consultant, the Crop Divesificaticn Agronrist
will be engaged also for the  inpleientation  of the Tree Crop
Develpient subproject.  The services of this cosultant will be
required for 18 man-snths costing about US$281,000 (including
US$5,000 for dacestic travel and reports). The UtNP technical
assistance grant will finarce US$100,000 of the costs of this
conultant and the reaininrq US$181,000 will be provided under the
Bank Loan and IDA Credit (see paragraph 84 and Appendix 8, Table B).
The Gvernment has agreed that the consultant will also be recruited
in accordance ith the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
E.   pl6lentation      n
69.      To  facilitate  the  implementation  of  the  Tree  Crop
DewVlopent subtroject the Government will, within tuo  mths after
the date of loan effectiveness, establish a Subproject C
Cmuittee (SOC) consisting of the Director of DAPF as Chairien and the
following members: the Financial Secretary of the Treasury Deparbtent
or his nainree, the General Manager of D1S, the Deputy Director of
DM, the Assistant Director (Division Head) for Research and
Thchnical Services of DAFT, the Oocoa Project Manager and the Coconut
Developaent Officer. The latter will be recruited by the G(ver?ment
for the subproject. The Ccmittee will meet regularly as required to
ensure  moth  inplentation  of the  Subproject.  The Assistant
Director for Research and Technical Services, will be designated as
Subproject Administrator and will be responsible for day-to-day
coordinaticn of subproject activities. He will provide the secretariat
services required to SOC. 2/
70.      DAFF will appoint the  following  additional staff for
frplementing the Tree Crop Develotnt subproject:
I/   Wan Agrenent,   e          4,- paragraph 4.
2/  Jean Agresiet, Schefdle 5, paragraphs 8 and 9.



25
(i) A Coonut Development Officer will be appointed under the
Subproject to Inplernt the hybrid conut planting program.
Re will be assisted and advised by the Consultant Coconut
Specialist and  will  be  the  Cosltant's           r
Additinal field staff will be recruited for oonut
develcptrnt oarising six Coconut Officers ard six Field
Whf will be under the direction of the Coconut
Developmnt Officer. 1/
(ii) Cco and coffee devlopment activities will be carried out
in conjction with t-he ongoing Cocoa Develcpient Project
ffinarced by ADB) and wil be urder the jurisdiction of the
Coma Project Ma:agew  basd  at     'u  Crop Develcpient
Station. In addition to the existing field staff pre tly
eployed uier the ongoing Cocoa Develcprnt Project, two
ODffee Officers will be recruited under the Spjt, cme
to be stationed in Upolu and the other in Savai'i. 2/
(iii) A full-tine crunterpart to the Consultant Crop Diversifica-
tion Agronimist will be appointed and designated as Crcp
Diversification Officer. lie will report directly to the
Assistant Director, Pasearch and Technical Services. 3/
71.     bTe  existing  extensicn  services of DFT  will play  a
supportive  role in the lnplntatio  of the Subproject by close
cooperation with  pecialist stalff working on specific crops.  The
existing etension staff will assist in pmzoting the Subproject
activities to far8mrs in their areas, Identify potential participati
fanners, assist in supervision of field rurseries and help in
supervision of planting and maintenance of selected crops. 4/
72.      The agricultural credit requirerents of the Tree Crop
Developnt suproject, estineted to total US$2.2 million over seven
years, will be met by We fram its various *sources. The credit
requirurents for 1987 and 1988, estimated at about US$312,000, can be
acbczumdated fram DBMI awl resources and frmn tim Fifth DM loan. 1
The ecredits will be rew*ered from participating farmers Di
accordance with repayment 1-   and conditions satisfactory to MO,
the Bank and IDA. 6/
73.      With respect to the civil wiks to be   nstr   under the
Project, design work for the two prposed Project roads is presently
being undertak  by DPW. DPW has assured the Bank that the designs
for tfese roads will be ompleted by 1 Jwme 1986 which wil coincide
1/  ion Agreement, Sceue 5, paragraph lo(iW.
E/  Loan Agrmenrt, Schedule 5, paragraph 10 (ii).
/  Lan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 10 (iii).
3/  Loan Agremnt, Schedule 5, pararaph 11.
K/  Loan No. 707-SM(SF) in the  ament of US$4.0 million aproved in
NoveTber 1984.
6/  Loan AgDent, Schedule 5, paragraph 12.



26
with the scheduled fielding of tte team of Project consultants under
the Ba's technical assistance.  The civil engineer/design in the
consultant team will review the DPW road designs. The design for the
other civil works under the Project will be undertaken by DP with the
assistance of, and under the guidance of the same civil
engineer/design.   The  Government  will  provide  qualified  staff,
engineerirn  equipment and services necessary for the design work as
far as is available within DMW. 1/ Additional engineering equipuent,
if necessary, will be provided by the consultants under the Bank's
technical assistance.
74.   .he supervision of - the civil morks construction will be
unertaken by a DPW supervision team with the assistance, and under
the guidance, of the civil engineer/constrction managmnt expert to
be recruited wnder the UNDP technical asstance.  The Goverment's
supervision tem will be headed by an eprienced civil engineer who
will be the full-tire Resident Enginee for the Project. The tem will
camprise a quantity surveyor, a soils/material engineer and such other
staff as will be agreed upon betwem DPW and the comultant, and which
will be in line with the ontractor's approved constrution schedule.
2/ The Goveriment shall also appoint an industrial econanist and an
Tndustrial enginser for the establisvent and s quent peraions of
SIC. The industrial ecocinist will became the  anager of SrC to be
assisted by the industrial. engineer. 3/
F.  lnpluuentation Schedule
75.      Based on the  tentative  Iiupleentation  scledule of the
subprojects,  the Project is expected to be1x  nlnted within a
six-year period after the effective dates of the Bank loan and the ID
Credit. CcOpletion of the individual subproject estimated fro the
date of loan effectiveness as fo1lcows:
M)  The Tree Crp Developuent Subproject within six years,
(ii) The Sic Subproject within two years,
(iii) 'The Rural Rads Subproject within four years, and
(iv) The Container Park Subproject within tw years.
A more detailed Txplementation Schedule (in bar-chart fonnat) is shcsn
in Appendix 7. The Project as a whole is, therefore, expected to be
ccpleted by end-1991.
G.  Project FundinR Arrangements
76.       Of the oroposvd Bank loan of USDLRS 4.4 million. USDLRS 4.04
million will be disbL aed to finance the foreign exchange cost of the project ane
I Ioan Agrg NEit, Schedule 5, paragraph 6(a).
7/  roan Agreemnt, Schedule 5, paragraph 6(b).
_/  LLoan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 4(b).



27
the balance of US$360,000 will be disbursed to neet part of the locl
currency expeniure for the Snall Industries Center and Contaer
Park I k o -j-S.  Che renairder of the Project cost of US$5.35
million will be financed in accordance with provisions of paragraphs
41 to 45.
R.  Lands and Rht      ay
77.       h Goverimit will provide abut four to eijht ha (10 to 20
acres) of the Vaitele Industrial Estate (VIE) for the canstruction of
the facilities under the  al  Industries Center subroject. 1/ SIC
will be constructed in VIE with -a total area of about 40 ha of which
about 12 ha have been ued for several large industries (C1ocut Oil
Mill, Cigaret Facbory, Feed Mill, Beer  ewy, etc.).
78.      lhe area adjacent to the proposed rural roads subproject is
subject to scue land disputes; the ('ovrrment has howiver given an
assurance that, rotwithstanding these disputes, cbtaining the right-
of-way for udertaking the proposed road i_pwould pose no
problen since the roads are already existing. In particular, the
Taking of lands Act 1964 and the Main Roads Develcpint Act 1972
authorize the Governwnt to acquire additional adjacent land and/or
right-of-way to improve existing roads. The Gbvrrment has assured
the Bank that it will make available all lands and right-of-way
required for the subproject and will ensure that all the requisite
formalities, authorizations and arranPnts for this purpose are
adopted in tine. 2/
I.  CMEation and Mainteance
79.      The Gowernnt has given an ass ce that the equipnent and
facilities to be provided and constu    under the ILan are operated
prcperly and adequately mainain   and that the necessary funds for
these purposes and other resources will be made available on a timely
basis. 3/ The Govennent has assured the Bank that it will continu
to coiIect pcrt fees and charges at levels which will gerate
sufficient revenues to cover operating and maintewnce costs and to
recover the capital costs of the Container Park to be upgraded under
the Project. 4/ The tariff will be reviewed periodically bY the
G7verrvnent to  atisfy this   i.
80.      In order to inTrve DPW's road maintenance activities in
genral, and to ensure satisfactory maintee of the roads to be
cnstructed under the Project in particular, the civil engineer to be
ecruited under the Bank's technical assistance will review the
organivational structure and mnnaqement of DPW's road maintenance
1/  Ioan Agtre-nt, Scedule 5, paragrah 17(ii).
-2J  jLoan Agreemeat, Schedule 5, paragraph 17Mi).
/f  Loan AgWreeLnt, Schedule 5, paragraph 7.
4/  loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 15.



28
divivion,  identify  possible  shortccnings  in  road  maintenance
operations and m3ke rexmnendations for iniproving the efficiency of
D8W's road           operations. I/
81.      The Government has given an assurance that it will maintain
separate accmts for the Project and for each subproject.   mese
accounts and related financial stnts, which will be audited
anually in accordance with souzd auditing princpiles by auditors
acceptable to the Bank shall be frnished to the Bank nt later than
six nnths after the end of each related fiscal year. 2/
J.  Rep         Ris
82.      The major project risk in the physical inplntation of the
proposed mltiproject loan will be due to the lack of experienced
persormel.  Tis has been ridied by the provision of varius
consultants required to help supervise and implmnt the subprojects.
Another risk wuld be the flution in the wrvld market prices of
c2modities  produced  by  the  variu sIprojects.    he  price
fluctuaticns are bejoined the control of Western Sama.
1/  T.A.        nt, Schecule 1, Part B (viii).
2/  LOa Agreement, Section 4.06 (b).



29
V. TENICAL ASSISTANCE
83.      The four subprojects require consultant services which are
proposed to be firnad  mder technical assistance  in different
disciplines.  ffhe xnsultants will assist the Govenment at various
stages of apraisal, project preparation including detailed designs,
physical iLpeunentation and supervisicn of- the sIbrojects.  The
rzKessary tecn_qal assistancewill be provided under two I/ technical
assistance agreem_ts:
-(i  a Bank-financed technical assistance, under which a tem of
four Conultants will assist the Goverment in appraising
individual subprojects ancd in reviewng detailed designs;
ard
(ii) a UND-finanoed 2/ technical assistance, under which two
consultants will assist the        nt in the  supervision
of physical iziplementation of the subprojects.
84.      Most of the tecinical and paratory work required for the
subprojects, can be doe by the respeive  uAgeies.
DPW is presently engaged in the survey work and design of the propowsed
project roads. mhe Govenment has assured the Bank that design work
for these roads wild be ccmpleted by 1 Jun  1986, wich will coincide
with the schedue  fielding of the consultants 3/. However, in order
to ensure tiDely cxzpletion of the apraisals of the subprojects,
varying inputs of consulting expertise will be required for each
subproject.  In particular, the detailed designs of the subprojects
will be finmd up and the finanial} and econanic justification of each
suberojct will be explained as part of the individual apraisals to
be carried  out by the G        overniet with the assista    of the
consultants. Tn view of its limited staff resourcs and its lack of
experience in the preparaticn and presentation of project appraisals
to mltilateral agencies, the Goenment has requested Bank technical
assistanoe cn a grant basis in the preparation of such appraisals and
for presentation of the subprojects for the Bank's approval, and for
assistance in preparingr tender documnts.  It is estimted that a
total of 14 man-inths of consultant services will be required for
this purpose. The services will be provided by a team of consultants
fran a foreign finn, tentatively catrising a Project lccmnist (for
about three nKnths), a Tree Crop Agronanist (for about two months), an
I1  In addition, tWO individal conslans will be recruited for the
buplentation of the Tree Crop Developient Pwject.  These
oonsultants will be financed entirely under the Bank lcan and the
IDA Credit and dor not form part of the Techical Assistance
Agreesents.
2/  The UNDP finacing is limited to US$116,000.
3/  Loan  Agreemnt,  Schedule  5, paragraph  6.  The  Government
estimtes that the cost of this design work amumts to US$105,000
equivalent.



30
Institutions/Credit Specialist (for one nth) and a Civil Engineer/-
Design (for about eight mwnths). Outline termn of reference for each
of these consultants are given in Appendix 1. They will be engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines an te Use of Consultants.  It
is estimated that the total cost of the ecical assistance- will ib
US$270,000 of which us$250,000 will be provided as grant.by the Ba*.
A breakdown of the costs is shown in Appendix 8, Tabie A. The Govern-
rent has undertakcen to finance additional local currency costs
estimated at US$20,000 equivalent which includes mainly costs related
to counterpart activities such as muveys, materials testing, traffic
surveys and secretarial services. I/
85.      During the physical inplementation of the sbrects, two
more consultants will be engaged. Their services will be required for
a total of 27 months to assist the GDvernoent in the supervision of
project inplentation and in establishing accounting procedures for
the subprojects. These consultants comprise of a Civil Ergineer/
Cnstruction Managt Expert (for 9 man months) and a Crop Diversi-
fication Agroncmist (18 man months). During the  irplentation period
they will periodically visit Western Samoa and review progress and
advise on future perfrmonance. Outline terms of reference for these
two consultants are given in Appendix 2. The costs of the services of
these consultants will be about US$446,000. A breakdbn of these
costs is shown in Appendix 8, Table B. UNDP has offered to finance
these costs up to a maximim  of US$250,000, ccaposed of US$247,000 in
foreign exchange and US$3,000 in local currency cost  Of this UNDP
technical assistance, US$150,000 will finanoe the services of the
Civil Engineer/Construction Managerent Expert and US$100,000 will be
used to finance part of the cost of US$281,000 for the Tree Crop
Diversification Agroncomist; the revaining US$181,000 will be covered
under the Bank loan and IDA Credit. UNDP has made a request to the
Bank to act as Executing Agency for this technical assistance. The
Government has undertaken to provide the local currency cost estimated
at US$15,000 equivalent for counterpart support including local
transport,  stationery,  and  necessary  office  space.  The  Civil
Engineer/Construction Managenent expert, whose services will be paid
entirely from the UNDP technical assistance grant, will be recruited
by the Bank. The Crop Diversification Specialist which is for about
64 per cent financed under the loan and about 36 per cent from the
UNDP technical assistanoe grant will be recruited by the Government.
Recruitment of these consultants will be done in accordance with
Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
1/  In order to ensure that these consultants will be operative
immediately upon their fielding, two vehicles and necessary
engineering equipment will also be provided under this technical
assistance.



31
VIr.  CP=OcN AND BEETS
86.      !I"ie proposed Project ccmplies with the nultiproject loan
approach approied wder Doc. 157-78 I/ which aims primarily at
finaing projects of a size that wuld-individuklly not be suitable
for direct and separate financing by the Bank. In selecting sub-
proJects, the basic principle followed bi the 4ission has been that
despite their aull size, the subprojects should satisfy the general
oCcet of a develoamnt project ad  met oertain econmic criteria.
87.      Broad cmsiderations that guided the selecticn  of the
ebprojects were that they should be:
(i) accorded high pricrity by the Gbvernent in DP5;
(ii)  prima  facie  econcally,  financially  and  tdchnically
able;
(iii) suitable for Bank financing; and
(iv) capable of directly or indirectly s tic
activities and reflecting social considerations.
88.      The  subprojects  selected  generally  reflect the  above
considerations.  The Project, as a package, gives due regard to
econcwy and efficiency, and the package approch would facilitate
Poressing and adninistration for both the Caverient and the Bank.
BY  using  the  existing  administrative  stzcus  and  technical
capacities, and supporting them where necessary, the Project ains at
pranut   both self-help and institution-uilding.  Better selection,
designig, processing and inple ntation of wall secto  projects in
the comuntry are also expe      to be stilated by the Ptoject. With a
wndest total invest ent under the Project, the subprojects provide for
inportant and divee needs for econcnic and social developant.
89.      Althoigh each suproject is prima facie suitable for Bank
financing, individual appraisals have been proposed to confinn their
suitability before funds are actually made available. Such aprsals
wmld, anong others, provide a cauplete dewription of each subproject
and its campoxnts, detailed cost estimtes including foreign and
local costs, and institutional and inplentation arra     nts.  Te
appraisals would also  explain  the  technical soundness and  the
financial  and  eamic  justification  of each  subproject.  In
considering such justification, the Bank try take into accourt any
1/  on 24 January 1984 te Board appir-oved the Review of the Bank
Operations in the Sout'h Pacific, Doc. R39-83, IEvision 1, dated
19 Octcber 1983; Sec. M993-83, dated 17 Novenber 1983; Sec.
M93-83, Addendum 1, dated 28 Delxter 1983.



32
special factors relating to a particular subO.ect, such as basic
needs for certain facilities or remoteness of certain regions of the
country.
90.      Full details of the benefits frcm the Project will be
available cnly after the subprojects are fully aeraised.
Quantifiable benefits my include increased excport earnings fr ff the
a&litiolal agriculture output, higher inctmes for mallholder fawers
and loer trnrtation costs. At full proction, about 3000 mt of
cora, 350 mt of cocoa and 160 Mt of coffee per annun  will be
realized.  Tn addition, the subprojects will save vehicle qperating
oosts, irove the flow of goods and reduce pollution.  h1e uprading
of the road will induce the develqpment potentials of agricultural
lands on both sides of the. Richardson Rad and eance torim.



33
VLr. CONMMCKs AND PRLU*ICNS4DM
91.      testern  Saiwa  faces  various  developient  constraints
particularly in the areas of financial and qualified manpor
zesmrces. The country's DPS has many high priority needs for
veloptent -of relatively low-cost econidc and social developmint
proiets.  Urder the popose  nultiproject loan facility, acme of
tJoee  needs wald be met in an appropriate frmewrk  for Bank
financing. 7he proposed loan of about SDR 4.14 million equivalent
(US$4.40 million)  frn  the  Ban's  Special  FPBs  resources  is
considered suitable for this purpose.
92.     Urider the proposed loan, four stbprojects have been selected
for financin. These subproJeets relate to tree crop developuent,
cmnstui   of a saall industries center, upgrading of rural roads
and of a container park.
93.      The selected subprojects appear prima facie feasible and
justifiable.  me selection has been made in accordance with certain
specific considerations. As a whole, the package gives due regard to
econcy and efficiency.
94.      The follawng arrangw   ts have been agreed to with respect
to the fiacing of the subprojects:
(i}  Each of th?  subprojects wuld  be subject to irdividual
apraisal. Actual financing of each subroject urder the
loan will be subject to such apraisal being found
satisfactoy  to  the Bank  (loan Agreement, Schdule  5,
-pa grah 5);
(ii)  By agre t beteien the Bank anrd the Goverrment, sub-
projects may be added or substituted, provided the required
financing for the Project does not exceed the amount of thte
loan. (loman Agreeamnt, Schedule 1; paragraph 4);
(iii) The Executing Agency for the Project will be the 7reasury
Deparbrent, with the Financial Secretary as the Project
Coordinator (PC). A Project Coordinating Ccmuittee under
the chai      p of PC will be established within two mnths
after the effective date of the Bank LMan and IDA Credit
with the Directors/Head of respective  D/Divisions
as mnnbers. (oan Agreent, Schedule 5, iaragraph 1);
(iv) The Deputy Financial Secetary will be the. Project
miinistrator who will be the head of the Project Executing
Office (PFD) to be established for the Project (Loan
Agreeent, Schedule 5; paragraph 2);



34
(v) Within the cverall responsibility of the Executing Agency,
the individual subprojects wuld ce carried out by various
Inpiementing  Agencies.  (Toan  Aqre_ t,  Schedule  5,
I aagraph 3(a) and (b));
(vi) Prurtnt for the civil works of the Tree Crop Develop-
ment, Smll Industries  Center and the Container Park
Upgrading suroiects will he carried out by prequ&iified
local  otractors to be selected in accordance with Local
Ompetitive Bidding procedues (Loan Agreeent, Sdhedule 3,
paragraph 8). Tfe civil. works for the Rural Roads sub-
project will be undertaken by prequalified bidders to be
selected on the basis of International Cxapetitive Bidding
(Loan Agreement, Schedle 3, paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c)).
SPC wOill be considered prequalified, but awarding of
contract to SPDC will only be made after the GDvernrnt
adopts remedial measures satisfactory to the Bank on SP2C's
financial weaknesses (Moan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraph
7);
(vii) A tedhnical assistance grant in an amamt not exceeding
US$250,000 is proposed in conjunction with the Loan to
assist in the appraisal of the subprojects, particularly
with respect to the financial and econanic justification,
and the techical and engineering aspects of the
subprojects;
(viii)  The Goverment will ensure that the  facilities to  be
provided or upgraded under the Project will be properly
operated, maitained and repaired in accordance with
suitable operational and maintenance practices (Loan
Agrent, Schedule 5, paragraph 7); and
(ix)  Ehe excution of the IDA credit agreelmt will also be a
condition of the Bank loan effectiveness and that the
Borrower would have obtained the UNDP grant or made other
arLa nts  satisfactory  to  the Bank to  provide  the
recessary funds for the Project (Moan Agreemnt, Section
6.01 (a) (b)).



35
Appendix  1   --   T    of Daference for on8 ulting          36
Servioes FPinCed Under SW* TA
Appedix  2   -   Lim of Refern   for                         41
Servioes Financed under UP
Appendix  3   -  7L-    of Peference for Onsulting           44
Services Financed under the Bank loan
and IM Credit
Appendx  4   -  Additional Staff, Goods and Services         47
to be Provided under the Project
Appaidix  5       Detailed Oost  stimMtes                    sQ
Appendix  6   -  Project Eectin  Agency Organization         51
Chart
Appendix  7   -                  Schedule                    52
Appexnx  8   -  Tedmical Assistance Cost Estirates           53



36
TERMS OF REFEPNE FM
CONSLTINQ SERVICES
FJ1WCE  UNDE BAN TA-
(Fbr Appraisal of suhproject)
The pwrpose of the Technical Assistance provided under a
grant frc  the Bank is to assist the Govrenmnt (the Project  ecuting
Agency and the   plemlenting Agencies) in the review of available
material and the pepartion and presentation of appraisal reports for
surojects included in the Project. A teamn of cnssultants cxuprising
a Pro eat Eotaist, a Tree Lrm AMcrEL and an itiosCrdit
S    i                                            ila%    a  Vil  nelr/Civll Wo    EeSi-n il be recruted.
TtiMill japprais the  iJLfIeiS preparelffieancial and ecmnc
justification of the individual subprojects, and review the detailed
designs and specifications for those subprojects involving majot civil
works construction. The conmsultants will further assist in the
preparation of bid documents and in the evaluation of tenders receivAed
and help in facilitating pc      t. The Civil agineer/Civil Works
Design will also undertake a review of DPW's road maintenance capacity
and arragxWnts.  ffhe consultants will assist the establit of
the Project 1xcting Agency (PBD) at the Treaury Drtnt.
TI. Tenr of Reference
1.  Project E     t  (Team Leader during the appraisal of
supojecs) - 
Th1e duties of the Project Econzst shall include, but not
be liimited to:
(i) review the informtion and reports on each subproject
available with the Government and the  pl   ting Agencies,
and make recceutindations for additional data that may be
required for the satisfactory preparaticn of the appraisal
Jeports;
(ii) assist the Governent and the aplementing Agencies in the
collection and ocanpilation of the required additional data;
(iii)  advise and assist the Government and Ilmnting Agencies
in the preparation ancl presentation of the appraisal reports
in form and content acceptable to the Bank;
(iv) review the aost estimates including contingencies (Price and
Physical) delineating foreign exdhange and local costs;
(Reference in text: pages 7, 15 and 29, paragr    18, 43 and 83)



.37
Page 2
(v) with respect to the road  VtLrovenent subprject, prepare
socioe=nadc profiles and Wevelopment perspectiVe Over the
study period for the Project roads' influence areas and
identify beneficiares in these areas and the extent of
eMployment, wages and salarie  expected to be genrated by
the civil works construction:
(vi) undertake a study of apropriate levls of rental charges
fran irh, trialIsts/ir.nfacturers usirg the buildirgs of the
amll In&Wsries Center and revi   the as  of
fees and tariffs colleced  frm  users of the proposed
Container Park at Apia MRarf;
(vii) assess, with the assistne  of the Civil Enginer/Civil
Works  Design,  the  institutional  and  aninistrtive
axrangent  proposed  for the  operation  of the Sall
Iedustries center subproject and nmke re          to the
Govrnment concerning the future reeds of an expanding
industrial/manufacturing sector;
(viii) advie and assist the cn       terpart  aff of the Iplementing
Agencies in carryin  out the necessaxy operatioal analysis
and in preparing the econaic and financial justification
which ny be considered necessary as part of the
satisfactory appraisal of ea:h subproject;
(ix) assess esm       tal inpacts of the civil wias propsed
under the various subprojects;
(x) prepare short bi-weekly progress reports to the Bank, which
my be convey  by telex, and a final report upon caPletion
of the assigment summarizing the investigations undertaken,
the approaches adopted and the results achieved with reSPect
to each subproject; this latter report will be separate fran
the individual appraisal reports which the Government will
sumrit to the Bank for its onsideration; and
(xi) assist the Project Adeinistrator in setting up the Project
Eemcting Office (PMD).
2.  Tree Crop hnMist
The Twee Crop Agronomist will provide the technical inpot to
assist in appraisal of the Tree Cop Developient Subproject. 'This
input will include but not be limited to:
(i) review of the tree crop sector especially the production of
coconuts, ocoa and coffee, arnd the place of these crops in
the country's econcm;



38
Page 3
(ii) review of the Gavermient's current programs for research and
develpnent of tree crops;
(iii)   reparatin and costing of programs to be financed under the
Subproject for develcpient of hybrid comnuts, cocoa and
coffee on private farm including production of plUating
materials, provision of physical inputs, estijmticn of labor
ruquirsuents and supervision of the plaingt progran;
(iv) identification and costing of the necessary inputs to be
provided to strengthen the Govennt's supportig services
required for inplenentaticn of the Subproject including
additional staff, transport and housing facilites; and
(v) estimation of costs and prices to enable preparation of
Subproject cost estimates in foreign exhange and local
currency, and financial and econrmic analysis of the tree
crop planting ocqsoents.
3. Institutions/Credit Specialist
The Institutions/Credit Specialist will provide technical
input to assist in appraisal of the Tree Crp Developaent Subproject.
This input will include but not be limited to:
(i) evaluation of present institutions and arrangts for
agricultural credit in Western Sainoa and their role in
relation to the Subproject;
(ii)  assessment of credit needs of the cocnut, cocoa and coffee
development programs and preparation of suitable financing
scheues for participating fanners to be dhanneled through
the Developnent Bank of Western Samoa including credit terms
and conditions;
(iii)  evaluation of institutional arrangmnts for support of
agriculture  in Western Sanoa and their relationship to
iMpleentation of the Subproject;
(iv) identification  of  xsy  strengthening of Government
institutions (especially research and extension) to ensure
successful inplenentation of the Subproject;
(v) identification of processing and marketing arrangarents to
meet the needs of the Subproject and proposals for
strengthening or iprovet of these facilities: and



39
Pag '4
(vi) preparation of an organization chart for inpOfat   Qf
the Subproject to shm the relationship of the Stuoect 'o
all concerned institutions and other exterally funded
related activities.
4.  Civil            I Wbrk  esinMaintenance
The duties of the Civil Engineer shal include, but not be
limited tD:
(i) advise and assist the GCawrmnt and the  rplmltent
Agencies on the engieering aspects of all the saI ojects
involvirg civil works, in particular the   ntai    rk and
related facilities, and the nral roads subprojects, as
considred necessary, and offer such other assistane as may
be required in the preparation and presentation of the
apl-misal reports including consid on of e        ontal
Impacts of each sibproject-
(ii) review with respect to the rural roads and container park
subproiects the available data including  hydrological,
.cdrographic  and  topographic  surveys  and  sub-soil
information, and carry ctt soil tests required at the Apia
arf ffor the successful               ---itatio f the contalner
park subproject;
(iii) make re endations regarding the design and construction
Of the proposed road and cxmtainer park facilities and
prepare necessary layout plans for the prEposed Small
Industries Center facilities. With respect to the upgrading
of the Ie Mafa Pass and Richarotm  Road, review and help
prepare apprprlate design standard for characteristic
sections of these roads  review  designs and tedmical
specifications prepared by DPW and prepare detailed ccat
estuftes for the roads and for the Apia Container Park
facilities, and sumuit all relevant infomation on which
those rezrima idations ny be based inclung results of any
additional site investigations and alternative designs
considered, data regarding establishment of design criteria
and a detailed construction and poZUnent programe
(iv)  investigate and make reconmlridations with respect to the
nmst a qpriate way to undertake the civil works for the
various subprojects;



40
{v) pwvide a breakdown of construction cost estimtes into
foreign (both direct and indirect) and 1ccal currency
aal onents as wel as taxes and customs duties, indicang
separately equipIent depreciaton costs and the costs of
ajure parts, fuel, lubricants, materials, labor, overteads,
etc..
(vi) assist the GQ ernent (tOugh the Project   dnistrator)
and the             Agencies in the ewauation of tende
and in the   gotiation  of contracts with the selected
cotatrs;
(vii) prpare Short bi-weekly progress reports to the  Bak, which
may be oveyed by telex, and a final report  oncpletin
of the assigwlnt giving highlights of field wrk and
cludn  ay p        t findins relating to the preparation
or     amaon  of the          jects  the latter  epo
will be separate fra  the iniv        reports which the
Govenrent will submit to the Bwank for onsia;
(viii) provide an overview of the  rasnizatioal strUcture  and
mmnagem~nt  of  the  road  maintenance  division  of  the
Depertunt of Public Works, identify possible hor t
in its road m na   cieatios and make e ndatios
for their  ot and
(ix) review the tariff, oganizationl,  npar and eqyipunt
requxrients of the port aperats.



41                              2
Page I
T~ER OF ~
I. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The purpose of the technical assistance is to assist the
IIvnt in the iand spervision of the Project, a
D          irfip                (18 %)  *h]  arxl  a  Civil
N3n I masr(t  mannt                  ils)    i'- be
Movided =iftr a TA grant  f=m UNP.  The Crop Diversification
owmt Will  ssithe             t   identify the potential for
cultivations of new crops and to establish these cromps n a pilot
scale. She Civil FzgimeawCostruction M4nagmnt Expert will advise
the goermnt in the pysical ibple--ation of all civil works
construction to be   -erta   for all su&projects under the Project.
Tomard the czpletion of the Project ip' mentatin of the civil works
aFonwnts of the multiproject, he will ,repare the Project C    t
RPAort.
IT. Term of Refezec
1.  Civil nz/ntdo                     tE=ert
(to te finwwed wxler EMP 7*dWdm.1 Ass-SW= grant)
During the sdp:ation of the civl wrks  nstion in
conrecticn with the Rural Road, the Container Park and the sell
Yndustries Center (SIC) subpojects periodic servioes of a civil
enqireerlonstrwtion   ag         epAt will be required, who will
report to  the Project Mdnis              he duties of the Civil
fnee/Constructiorn Mtagnt Expert shall include, but not be
limited to:
(i) at the start of the civil works construction, advie and
assist the  Gavernt and  the  subproject  rplauenting
Aecies in the establiusmnt of contruction            t and
stBrvision predurs iIudin  quantity surveying, quaity
control, poject accuting, and review the contractor's
prOPOsd construction schedules and work procedures;
(ii) make periodic visits to the sites of the subrojects to
reviw the construction work and advise the Govermnt, the
Uplementing Agec and the Baak on all aspects of the civil
waft  constriction and In particula  an the prgress and
quality of the civil wrks, and on the Project's a
and cost control; identify S      ments to the project's
progress and recnmnend redial action, if appliable;
(Reference in text: pages 9 and 30, paragraphs 26 and 84)



42
Page 2
(iii)  undertakj  the  review  of  tariff  (fees  or  charges),
oranzational, manpower and equipnent requirents of the
port and SIC operatiomn,
(iv) advise the Govenment and the  mplementing Agencies on all
technical and other matters related to subprojects as my be
required;
(V) at the cupletion of the road constuction, assist the
vMe   in preparin  a Project Cmplettian Report and
Mintanacoe Plan for the new road facilities; the Project
Ccpletion Preport should also cover the iplntation of
civil wakw  construction for other subprojects includ  in
the Multiproject Loan; and
(vi) duwing the course of frplsiwitation, the Cosultant will
nmke. periodic reports to be sUbUitted to the Qwerwent, the
Bank and the RNDP Resident Baprsentative in Apia.
2.   rOp Diversificaticn Agrcnist - (to be partly finanoed unler
the UMP TA grant and the balance under the Bank lman)
The cmsultant will be engaged for 18 man      h ich will
be utilized duing periodic visits to Western Sarnua during the five
years of Subproject i -plntation.  His main responsibility will be
to assist DAFF to identify the potential for cultivation of new crops
(4xich cuild include cloves, peer, spices, nrultr, oil palm, fruit
crops, mnacahia nuts, etc.) and to assist in the establishment of
these cros on a pilot scale.  In connection with thse objectives,
his duties amd ictivities may include but not necessarily be Limited
to the following- 
(i) review the potential and identify specific crops for
introdutio  and establishment in Wstern Sauna;
(ii) identify socures of suitable planting material and assist in
its  prr   t, if necessary, visiting  the countries
suPplYing the material;
(iii) advise and assist in the establisbment and main e  of
pilot project scale plantings of the int  d crops;
(ixv) awist in the evaluation of the introduced crops and advise
on future   n       s   for research and potential for
oainircial scale production;



43
. ~2
Page 3
(v) assist in the selection of suitable candidates for local and
overseas training under the Subproject and make Ara nt
at suitable instituticms for training; and
(vi) dmrinq the carse of Inplarentation, make periodic repors
to be submitted to the  oernent,, the Bank and the UtDP
Basidet Pep-esentative in Apia.



44
hpM!Jx  3
Page I
TEMS OP REFERE
FM CISUTIM SERVICES
FINP) UNDER THE BANK MAN AND IA CRIT
I.        R
The purpose of these cxnsultants services are to assist the
GOverrMent in ,npleneting the Tree Crop Develcpnt Subproject, a
acomut mseiaiiwt, and a Cooa and Coffee - Specialist will be
td s*peci Alists  11 be recruited as individua
consultants and will be financed fron the Loan proceds. The services
of these two consultants will be required for 72 man-umths.
II. ¶mns of Reference
1.  Cocoa and Coffee Specialist
the consultant will be engaged fior a period of 36
Iuanonths. His main function will be to advise and assist DAF? in
the inplemntation of a program for planting lnqwoved varieties of
cocoa  and coffee by private fanrers in connection with which his
duties and activit-5es may include, but not neoessarily be limited to
the following:
li)  advise on the production of disease-free planting materials
of cocoa and coffee in the nurseries at the Nu'u Crop
Developient Station sufficient to cover the acreage
according to the planting schedule;
(ii) advise on areas suitable for planting of cocoa and coffee;
(iii) prepare packages of practices for coooa and coffee
developnent including preparatiom of field, planting of
shade trees, fertilization, spacing, tine of plnting,
cultural operations, disease and pest control, etc.;
(iv) train cocoa officess, coffee officers, field assistants and
field extension officers on the cultivation techique of
cocoa and coffee;
(v) advise cn selecticn of suitable faners, and availability of
requisite credit and irputs;
(vi) advise on the distributicn of planting materials to selected
farmers through the coffee and cocoa development team;
(Nii) organize visits by the coca and coffee develpnt teams to
selected  fanners  at regular  intervals  to  dnstrate
planting and follw-up operations;
(Reference in text: page 9, paragraph 26)



45
3
Pag 
viii)  inspect the cocoa and coffee plantings periodically and
advie on further actions to be takn;
(ix) assist in the selection of suitable candidates for overses
tamining und  the project and M   arran ts  t suitable
oaersea institutions for trainingr; and
(x) advise on and prepare suitable locally-based training
pr_ai  for Subprject staff and participating farners.
2.  Coont SMeialist (to be financed under the-Bank Loan)
The consultant will be engaged for a period of 36 man-
months. His matin fuction will be to advise and assist DAE, in the
inplumntation of a hybrid coconut planting program by private fanrs
in comecticn with which his duties and activities may include, but
nvt neoessrily be limited to the following:
Ci) advise on the maintenance of the coconut seed garden at
Olcanmu for          of hybrid conut seed nuts;
(ii) advise on the selecticn of suitable areas for establisbment
of nurseries for raising hybtid coocut seedlings;
(ii) advise on areas suitable for planting of hybrid coonut
seedlings;
(iv) prepare  packages of practices  for cocmut develcptnt
including preparation of field, fertilization of seedlings,
spacing, time of planting, cultural werations, disease and
pest control, etc.;
(v) train  coconut  offices,  field  asistants,  and  field
extension officers on the cultivation techique of hybrid
coxnt;
(vi) advise on the selection of suitable farmrs and availability
of requisite credit and inputs;
Cvii) advise on the distribution of hybrid coconut seedlings to
selecbed faers   h   the coconut developwnt team;
(viii) organize visits by the coconut develcpnt tem to selected
fazuers at regular intevals to d      qtrate planting and
follow-p operatios;
(ix) inspect the hybrid ooonut plantings periodically and advise
on further action to be taken;



461
- ~Page 3
(x) assist in the selecticn of suitable candidates for oversas
trainin  under the project and make ar    ts at suitable
overseas institutions for training; and
(xi) advise on and prepare  suitable  locally based training
program for  uproject staff and participatin  faurs.
3.  Cm  Diversification     nca Mst - (to be partly financed wder
the UNtP Te 1nical Ass     e grant ard the balance under the
Bank Tban)
me consultant will be ergaged for an initial period of 18
nm-inths which will be utilized during periodic visits to Western
SamDa during the five years of Subproject   Hpl         ton.   His
services is estimted to cost US$281,000 including internati
travel and  onti    es, of which UNDP will provide US$100,000 and
the balanoe of U$181,000 wil be provided under the Bank roan and MDA
Credit. His main responsibility mill be to assist DAFr to identify
the potential for cultivation of new crops (which cold include
cloves, pepper, spices, rubber, oil palm, fruit crpe, mnacacdla nuts,
etc.) and to assist in the establisbm3nt of thes crops on a pilot
scale.
-%e detailed  duties of this  ccsltant are  shom  in
Appendix 2, Section 2.



47
alix 4
page 1
D~GIL STW M O      wS PRJC  Tc
Table A.  Mditkmal Staff P3uired for Tree
Arua
ActivityAXeigation         Salary   Apointed in Yr:  Total
(Qualificatiman   _                     1    2       3    Nos.
Co=Inut DvaLo!nt
COOnUt Development
officer (Graduate)           8,000     1    -       -      1
Coommnut Officer (Diplcu)    6,000     2    2       2      6
Field Assistant (Piplam)     3,000     2    2       2      6
Cooa/Cofee 1       ecpazt
Coffee Officer (    )iplcia)  6,000    1    1       -      2
EEe Diversificatio
Officer (Graduate%          8,000     1    -       -      1
Table B.   i        to be Provided for Tree
CMo Develoiient  ~jc
-ijit Base Cost Pocured in                  cost       oe
$        Year (Ms.)                W           Przoure-
I  t e m             C Total   1   2  3   t   PX  IC  Total    nent
Staff29hues a/
70 m            18  12  30   5   3  2   10 k/ 180  120  300            IC
4WD Pick-bp
vehicle         20   -   20   5  3  2   10 -  200  -  200              IS
a  Standa0    WvR   design.
I/ One house and cm vehicle each for Coout            t  Officer (1), Coonut
Officers (6),  Coffee Officers (2) and Crop Dirsifica   Officer (1) .
(Refererce in text: page 29 and 30; pargraphs 84 and 85)



48
Page 2
Table C. Sill Industries Center (SIC) W2o1ect
racil =ties and nriAmt toF be Proued
unde the; Bi anklx
F'acilities & Equipxent        ¶btal      FX        C  PnodeOt
1.  Site and Services a/
(1)  Site levelling           4.5      3.5     1.0
(2) Fencing (1200 m)         30.0    24.0    6.0
(3) PRods (3 km             180.0   120.0   60.0
(Access 1 Qn and service
road inside SIC 2 km)
(4) Utilities to sites      131.9   110.5   21.4
(water, potr, telecmi,
and sewerage) b/
2.  Factory Building 800 sq m    121.7    73.0   48.7
3.  Re-erction of Shed No. 2
(after its di9antling at
Apia Wharf)                   17.0      1.0   16.0
Subtotal Civil Wibrks      485.1   332.0  153.1       LCB
4.  One vehicle (Station Wagon)   12.5    12.5      -         IS
S.  Office 3qtidpunt
(pltoco  madine, type-
writer and stationaries)      7.5      6.5     1.0   Off the
shelf
6.  Pre-Oerating LVd
6.  ata- ~44.9    29.0   15.9
ase Cost d/              550.0    380.0  170.0
a/  Lease cost of land will be prvided.
F/   Including searage treatment and other polluticn control
measures.
c/  Including Incentives for Project Manaanet (Industrial Economist
at W6$10,000/pa and Industrial Engineer at Mi$7000/pa). The
total incetives will be about US$7500/pa or US$15,000 for t1
years,
d/  Qmtingswies are as follows (US$'000)
Toal    FX    IC
77        ITO     I
Itisical         ( 81)    ( 56)  (25)
Price            ( 93)    ( 54)  (39)



49
Page 3
Table D. Rura  Ead Soect
aoDds and Services to be Procured Mier the Ban Loan ad MA Credit
'   WS' 000)_-
-   -     S-                   '  R~~~~~~~Axe -"
Goods and Services           Total    FX       ic  Pmrcuretent
Civil 'i,rks Construction         2820    2520    300           ICa
Table E. Container Park SubprIect
Goods and Services to be Procued Utder Bank Loan
= -'f~~~~US$'000
ode of
Goods and Services           Total    FX       IC      PracuraDnt
Civil Wrks COstrtction:
-     1 1.tion Shied No. 2
and ruwval of concrete
slab                           32       -     32
-    Paving (24,000 sq m)          311      280    31
-    MarsalLing Yard                44       35     9
-    Repairs adsting Sheds          48       45     3
TotabalCivil   w s435                  360    75I
Construction~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



DMTALED COLqT ESTITRT2S
(tM 0ooo)
Badc            m134          144           299        1791                    51         IV37                   248
PM                                                 -            -    ' 5              1                      6 
Si~~1          1348i         144          39          191        513         52          137        '02         249
38)          56           54          490       235          23          37        29575
-       ~~-           -            -        11           2           2         is           15
-           -            -            -         3           -           -          3            3
____                            -                        -                1 5         -           -          1            1
at~i                  380          56           54          490      230           25          39        314          W4
C. Rub~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1e 39                   790)                     453         3353       42 47                                             5 615
.                 ~      ~    ~~-  -         -           -        13          50            -.        3
M                                                                                  7-  -  -  5  1  1    7
ak.i                              380          453         3353       916         140    1S     2       128         4561
D. k ta I rac
36D          54           52          466       114          14          22        19           616
L_                                               -  _                    1 
a iS l                3)D          54           52          466        226         16          24        166          632
B. TM_ ad nQ                 -            -            -            -       622          -            -        622          622
'1                468          634                      6100       2;          233          s2       30Q2         9112w
a/                                Ozuz'  ia an tg 3  05J  X00    teqc 'is s X                      (CEfil9D     SRID  QEt'
ftwim O=m lmc in a1 sto'                             **    AM aUtd ,i J    i £                   a W$9, 0.



WESTERN SAMOA: MULTIPRJCT LOAN
PROECT EXECUTINS AERCY ORGAIZATION CHART
UOJ6CT COOROtATIN4V. 
tOa                         COMMITTEE lPCC}
..                                             Ogt~~~~~~~~~~~~~DPTYt
oo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PFtmCtAL SECRETARY
"                                        wROJ6~~~~~~~~~~~" Ctr AOMINISTRAT0,11
4.'.~.                                       
'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FfAtg)VS
_ ~~~~~~~~~ACCOUIFITS OIVSIS1N                  |         ltio  ._)   _ _ AC  _.NJ
Pt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"JE,NCITPLESE;           IONU"AN FtSTS OIEi   alt". or ECO. COV.   T 9. Oil 011#0IC %%*ms    a "t" DIVOSION
A. Mat 0041C 4 ratel Staff 44)                    PC WI" Mtt     Ofl_  PC (chWI11111) PA JtUt DbW    of ftbilc 
CL         I"t. ^CSVAU IWVIO" PS Staff)                      DMW*n t 9tthaAnistryfetT tpostldHdefh .
it. i4s1_ cijont (7 Su"t * S Vnt} ,
@~~~v  tomv 1Polticy OW*  (4 Staff$                      oro Fof the c_ Zrommt  ("lSmt, ftowmwt r, *fof Lo    a
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Crftw Speftst an Are_m  oa at _IY gr                                   WU b
srue ft "  4e4  of SktmWswt,twoto
Catufo   bet rmff nz di _ m Ut      TA for  t iios
_~~~4 VAlVC  WOkW * a$EWWtl
AOK. ft  Of the ewt of elw Of t smaomtak WI" b
COttra und th tak n ftt 



WESTERN SAMOA - MULTIPROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ll618   98 1 1191990  i  1991
_______________  JVSN1, -O    J                                      JJA        JP.    JSOI.? -,    1sJ,J2f _      tl4S DJV  t  JJit
RECRUITMENT OF CONSULTANTS                                             I       I|                    .
ECONOMIST                                                                     If
- Appruls of 3Suproj| cts
TREE CROP AGRONOMIST                                     fi|    '|,i
|      iNSTITUTIONlCREDIT SPECIA-LIS,T.                      ' i   ;i     i|i,i                         !     Ii         '.
Apprsis of Tee Crop SubproJact                         ..
CIVIL ENGINEERRDESIGN
Ei  -tttiE                 ;             |   .iiif~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~It li,                 . :iIIl  I[i
Ass isIn AppnWo of $ubprojecta/                                                                        *u
O             R eview                          . 1m m  Contact           !       I i  ,u,                                 i
ROP DIVERSIFICATON AGRONOMIST                                                                                  I
<,       - PrsqulDeflcmlona'onuatorstn                'ii* ,               1      ,'                       _ t         ij'_
-ro Ro vdMsl rtie r wlmpu n
i   CIVIL ENGINEER/CONSTRUCTION
:       iMANAGEMENT EXPERT
C  onutruction~ Inug*on
- onstruutctlo Suppyisln
- Finaliion of Subroject (final queti-
TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT                                                       - - ------
- CDCOn ut. Cos. COffa.
' ~        - g     -   oncal t aint,CcntS rs cluIus             I,
I    - Consultants C;om4Coffas Spsawl
i   > q   CROP DIVERSIFICATION COMPONENT
- Identification of Ptuntili
- Colleaton of Ms" MaMulteo" 
PRsntIngp of Pilot Plot
- Mai,wn c of PIlot Plots
. PREDUALIFICATION. TENERING AND                   Lii              |t
AWARD OF ROAD CONTRACT (iCB)
F tEOUALIFICAITON, TENDERING AND                    I i                 | 
CIVIL WORKS CONSTiUCTION
- Sml Inrdusrins Cun  Subproject                                                                                 I.1-
-    RuCa " Road suiproject



53                         i
Page I
TBEF1CAL ASSISM     COrBro
TABE A: ADV9SO   TENIUM ASSISTA?i
ro }e financed by the Bai* as grant)
C2sMMtant Services for Project  aisal
Bank finao                                               Amount
1. Consultant' s Itiumeration and Per Dien
(14 nmnvnths)                                    140,000
2. Interational trawl (5 round trips)                    20,000
3. Provision of vehicles (2 four wb4el drive
trasport plus spares)           25,000
4.  ngineering Equipuent (for surveying, materials
testing, etc.)                  10,000
5.  onterpart staff a/                                   13,000
6. Office BEuipent oT Project EMecting Office
(including photocopyinm machin, typewriter,
facsimile machines and supplies)                     12,000
7. Pental of Qmpzter facilities                           2,000
8. Damstic Transport Expenmdites                          2,000
9. Cammication and Reports                                3,000
10. Contingencies (about 10 per Cent)                     23,000
Subtotal         250,000
Goverrnet's input bt
1. Enineering Srveys                                       7,000
2. Materials Testing                                       5,600
3. Traffic Suveys                                          7,000
4. Secretarial Services                                    1,000
5. Darestic Transport for counterpart staff a/             3,600
6. Contingencies (about 10 per cent)                        1,800
Subtotal          20,000
Total Cost       270,000
a/  Incliuding iuppleiEntary reritmeraticn for the PA of tS$6,000/p.a.
and for tw POD staff of W5$2,000 p.a. per persm.
bf  Taes and duties estimated at )5$43,000 (US$19,000 equivalent)
will be borne by the Goverrment. Engineering design work for the
roads suproject is presntly being undertaken by DPW; it is
epected  that prior to  the ilemlentatich  of the Technical
Assistanoe the DPW will caplete the road design at GDwemtent's
expense.
(Referene in text: page 29, paragraphs 83 and 84)



54
(to be financed paty   NTDP Tec1mical Assac   r
and . . er the Lm)
Ccmsltant Services for E!Mject Isiinaion
AvDlmt
lus~$)
A.  Civil Erigineer/Ostucatin    n      t E
1.  Pnerati and Per Dim (9 iun-uinths                   117,000
2.   Internati  Travel (6 runwd trips)                   21,000
3.  Cortingncies (about 10 per cent)                    12,000
Subtotal                            150.000
R.  Crop Divrsification  hgonaist
4.   asmeratio) and Per Diem (10 nnths)                 234,000
5.  Intemational Trawl (5 umud trips)                    17,500
6.  Contingenies (about 10 per cent)                     24,500 a/
Subtotal                            276.000
C.  General
7.  Dmtestic Tavel                                        3.000
8.   Eports and caumicatioms                              2,000
Subtotal General                     .5,000
Tbtal externally financed           431,000 b/
D.  Govermant Inets  c/                                  5l,000
Tbtal Cbst
a/  Thee contineres- mal' e a .rty Us           visitUqg, if m5esSSzy
and with prior gank czowairecou, *ntries s1pplyinq plantig
materials.
b/  Of which US250,000 will be pmvided by LIP and $181,000 will be
finced ur4der the Barc Loan.
ci   Omunterpat staff, loal   t       t tst     e,  e, directly
related to the Technica1  Assistane.  Not in1m   in this
estimate Is the cost of the day-to,day            of the elvl
works costrution which will be urAertaken by MV  at an
estimted  oost  including  c ntles  of US$320,000  Isee
Appendix 5).



