Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Repwt No- P-4174-WSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A
PROPOSED MULTIPROJECT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT OF SDR 2.3 MILLION
TO THE IN'DEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
January 9, 1986
ThIS ismet      a resbicb dhributiim md nmy be used by recipleumts ouly in the pedforummse of
thdr .5dI dugeg It mkmIs may ea edmewise be dised wi    Waid Bank audmizm.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Western Samoa Tala (WS$)
Average 1984            September 1985
US$1.00    =  WS$ 1.8379       WS$2.1622
WS$1.00    =  US$ 0.5441       US$0.4625
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilometer (Km)                     0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. Kilometer (Sq. Km)             100 ha. = 0.39 sq. miles
1 hectare (ha)                       2.47 acres (ac)
1 Kilogram (Kg)                      2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)                   2.206 pounds (lb)
=    1.0235 short tons (2000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (2240 lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB      -  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
CBS       -  Central Bank of Western Samoa
DAFF      -  Department of Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries
DBWS      -  Development Bank of Western Samoa
DPW       -  Department of Public Works
Dph       -  Fourth Development Plan (1980-1984)
DP5       -  Fifth Development Plan (1985-1987)
EDF       -  European Development Fund
IFAD      -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MSD       -  Marine and Shipping Department
NPF       -  National Provident Fund
SIC       -  Small Industries Center
SPDC      -  Special Projects Development Corporation
TD        -  Treasury Department
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
WSTEC     -  Western Samoa Trust Estate Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
MULTIPROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Independent State of Western Samoa
Amount:           SDR 2.3 million (USs 2.5 million' equivalent
Terms:            Standard IDA terms
Co-lender:        The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approvcd a loan of
SDR 4.3 million (US$4.4 million) equivalent from its Special
Fund Resources and a technical assistance grant of
US$250,000 for the project. Under the cofinancing
arrangement with IDA, the ADB will take the lead in project
administration, monitoring and supervision. UNDP is
providing a rechnical assistance grant of US$250,000 for the
project.
Project
Description:    (i)  Objectives:  The project consists of a group of high-
priority public sector investment subprojects in the
agriculture, industry and infrastructure sectors, which have
been identified in the context of the Government's Fifth
Development Plan (1985-1987). The subprojects would provide
direct and indirect support for production (domestic as well
as export-oriented), strengthen and diversify the country's
economic base, enhance the generation of new economic
activities, and create new employment opportunities.
(ii) Subprojects: The following four subprojects have been
identified (i) Tree Crop Support; (ii) Upgrading of Rural
Roads; (iii) Construction of a Small Industries Center, and
(iv) Upgrading of a Container Park. While the general
suitability and viability of these subprojects was estab-
lished during a joint ADB/IDA appraisal visit, each sub-
project will be subject to more detailed scrutiny before
implementation, using guidelines which have been agreed
among the Government, ADB and IDA. IDA will be cofinancing.
with ADB, the subprojects under items (i) and (ii) above.
Benefits and
Risks           (i)  Benefits:  The project would help to (i) step-up
production of coconut, cocoa and coffee, thereby increasing
farm incomes and export earnings, (ii) facilitate transport
of agricultural produce and reduce transport costs,
(iii) increase production and employment by small indus-
tries, (iv) improve the operational efficiency of Apia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of hteir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Wharf, and (v) strengthen institutional capabilities in
Western Samoa to evaluate and implement development
projects.
(ii) Risks: Appraisal of the project by ADB/IDA confirmed
that the subprojects appear feasible and justifiable,
however, in order to minimize the risks of supporting any
non-viable subproject, each subproject would be subjected to
more detailed analysis by the Government, assisted by
consultants and the results of these analyses reviewed by
ADB and IDA before implementation. The remaining risks
appear to be possible delays in the procurement of equipment
and materials. To minimize these risks, consultants will
assist the Government in monitoring project progress during
the implementation period.
Estimated cost:                                  Local      Foreign   Total
--USS '000------
Tree Crop Support                       513       1,348   1,861
Upgrading of Rural Roads                916       2,520   3,436
Small Industries Center                 250         380     630
Container Park                          126         360     486
Base Costs                        1,805      4,608   6,413
Physical Contingencies                  233         634     867
Price Contingencies                     352         858   1,210
Total                             2,390      6,100   8,490
Interest during construction                        105     105
Taxes, duties and other charges         622                  622
Consultant Services                      45         490      535
Total Project Cost (Incl. taxes)   3,057         6,695   9,752
Financing Plan:                                       -- US$'000 - -----
IDA Credit                              440       2,060   2,500
ADB Loan                                255       4,145   4,400
ADB Technical Assistance Grant            5         245      250
UNDP Technical Assistance Grant           5         245     250
Government contribution               2,352           -   2,352
Total                             3,057      6,695   9,752



Estimated
Disbursement:   IDA FY-        1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual         0.2     0.5      0.6     0.6     0.4      0.2
Cumulative     0.2     0.7      1.3     1.9     2.3      2.5
Rate of Return:   Preliminary evaluations indicate that the rates of return
for tree crop development and the Upgrading of Rural Roads
subproject would exceed 12Z. More precise estimates would
be determined after detailed analysis of the subprojects.
Appraisal
Report:         Asian Development Bank, SAM: AP-15, dated October 1985
Map No:           IBRD 18848



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED MULTIPROJECT CREDIT
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation for a proposed
credit on standard IDA terms to the Independent State of Western Samoa for the
equivalent of SDR 2.3 million (about US$2.5 miLlion) to help finance a project
consisting of several subprojects (multiproject). The project will be
cofinanced with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) as the lead institution; ADB
is providing the equivalent of SDR 4.3 million (about US$4.4 million)
equivalent from its Special Fund resources, and a technical assistance grant
of US$250,000. The UNDP is providing a technical assistance grant of
US$250,000.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.        The last economic memorandum, "Western Samoa: Development Issues and
Prospects" (No. 2168a-WSO) was dated December 29, 1978. Since then, IDA staff
have held periodic discussions with the Government on the economy, and
participated in IMF missions. The' following paragraphs reflect information
received through these contacts. Socio-econoFmic data are contained in
Annex I.
3.        Western Samoa is a small island country in the South Pacific that
has been independent since 1962, following a period as a United Nations trust
terricory administered by New Zealand. The country has a population of
161,000, most of whom live on the two main islands - Upolu and Savai'i (see
map). The population is homogeneous, almost all of it being of Samoan
extraction. The main harbor is in Apia, the capital city and the only major
urban area, which is located on Upolu Island. The islands have reasonable
infrastructure (with some gaps), comprising a road system to serve agriculture
and industry, ports and shipping services. The international airport is being
expanded to allow for future growth in trade and tourism.
4.        Reliable estimates of per capita GDP in Wescern Samoa are not
available. Subsistence (nonmonetary) production provides the Samoans with
sufficient access to shelter, food and clothing. Adult literacy is almost
universal. Most children have nine years of basic educatioa and at least
three years of high school education. A good coverage of health services has
been achieved through district hospitals and village clinics.
5.        Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is the most important  Y
sector of the economy and accounts for over one half of employment and
1/ This section is substantialLy unchanged from the President's Report
related to IDA credit for the Development Bank of Western Samoa project
which was considered by the Board of Directors on April 23, 1985.



domestic output. Close to 90% of total exports are directly or indirectly
based on agriculture. The majority of the population practice subsistence
agriculture, which contributes around 40% of CDP. The manufacturing sector
currently acc-unts for only about 6% of GDP and 5% of employment. The most
important and successful manufacturing operation has been a copra crushing
miLl, which processes nearly all marketed copra into coconut oil and copra
meal for export. Soap, matches, beer and cigarettes are also produced.
Tourism, while ic has potential for further development, currently accounts
for around 3Z of GDP.
6.        A special feature of the Samoan economy is emigration.  While
emigration provides significant foreign exchange earnings through remittances,
it has deprived Western Samoa of some of the benefits of investment in
education made by the country and has also adversely affected agricultural
productivity by reducing the supply of plantation labor.
Recent Economic Performance
7.        The economy experienced difficulties in 1980-1982, showing negative
GDP growth, high inflation (around 20%) and a deteriorating external payments
position. Problems of poor planning and management, particularly in the
plantation sector, were compounded by depressed commodity prices and adverse
weather which further weakened the performance of the agricultural sector.
Output in the manufacturing sector also declined because of shortages of both
raw materials and foreign exchange. Deteriorating terms of trade, and excess
monetary creation associated with an ambitious development program caused
severe external payments difficulties. International reserves declined
sharply and external payments arrears (largely for petroleum) amounted to
about US$15 million by the end of 1982, equivalent to one year's merchandise
exports. Domestic financial conditions also worsened during 1980-1982.
Government expenditure - to a considerable extent the counterpart for
externally-financed investment - increased at a higher rate than revenue,
resulting in a sizeable budget deficit which was largely financed by domestic
borrowings from the banking sector.
8.        In order to address some of these problems, in early 1983 the
Government adopted a stabilization program which was supported by a one-year
stand-by arrangement with the IMF. The adjustment measures have helped to
moderate inflation and have supported a resumption in output growth. In
conjunction with favorable terms of trade and increased external assistance,
the external position improved. The current account deficit declined to 14%
of CDP in 1983 from an average of 22.5Z in 1980-1982.
9.        The Government continued its adjustment efforts in 1984, supported
by another one-year stand-by arrangement with the IMF. In 1984 the exchange
rate of the Tala against the New Zealand dollar was adjusted on three occa-
sions. These adjustments brought about an 11.7% depreciation in nominal
effective terms which, together with restraining of growth of imports, led to
a further improvement in the current account deficit in 1984 (12% of CDP).
Inflation slowed to 12Z in 1984, compared with over 16X in the previous year,
reflecting the improved domestic food supply situation and continued financial
restraint.



10.       Despite these positive indicators, export volume is estimated to
have declined sharpLy in 1984, reflecting a drop in coconut oil and cocoa out-
put. Debt service payments remained high at 61X of the exports of goods and
services (or 31Z of the exports of goods, services, and private remittances),
in part reflecting the repayment of arrears that had been incurred during the
1980-82 period. WhiLe as a result of these repayments only a small amount
remains in arrears, total outstanding external debt was still estimated at
about 80% of GDP at end-1984.
Development Issues and Prospects
11.       The performance of the agriculture sector in Western Samoa, which is
the mainstay of the economy, has been marred by low productivity, management
problems, constraints imposed by land tenure arrangements, variable prices for
the major products, inelastic market demand and labor shortages. Growth in
the industrial sector has been constrained by the small size of the domestic
market and the sluggish pace of investment. Although gross receipts from
tourism have been increasing, substantial further investment would be required
to upgrade hotel accommodations and tourist-related services, for tourism to
play a more significant role in the economy.
12.       In view of the immediate fiscal and balance of payments difficul-
ties, Government's attention in recent years has been focussed on implementing
macroeconomic reforms and a stabilization policy with assistance from the
IMF. Some measures to increase productivity and to address key development
constraints have been implemented (like the cocoa replanting program and pro-
ject assistance to strengthen key agricultural institutions such as Western
Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC)). Under the Government's new Three
Year (1985-87) Plan (DP5), a concerted effort is being made for reviving
plantation output, diversifying and increasing the role of agro-industries in
the economy and improving basic infrastructure. With the short-term adjust-
ment problems being contained, the Government is in a position, in the context
of DP5, to turn its attention to the critical medium and longer term con-
straints of the economy, so as to improve the country's productive base.
13.       Australia and New Zealand are the principal bilateral donors to
Western Samoa. They have been providing around US$4.0 million a year, mainly
for agriculture and infrastructure projects. Japan's aid has been increasing
in recent years, notably for port development and upgrading of wharves. ADB,
UNDP, EEC and the Kuwait Fund also have active programs in Western Samoa. The
main thrust of ADB's assistance has been to develop agriculture, with
considerable institution-building effort.



-4-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
Objectives of Previous Lending
14.       Since Western Samoa became a Bank Group member in June 1974, four
IDA credits totaling US$16.4 million were made to it (Annex II). The main
thrust of the projects supported under these credits has been to develop
agriculture.  A highway project, approved in 1975 (Credit No. 535-WSO), and a
first agricultural development project, approved in 1979 (Credit No. 951-WSO),
focused attention on upgrading of the basic road infrastructure and agricul-
tural development. A second agricultural development project, approved in
1981 (Credit No. 1080-WSO), aimed at improving agricultural practices of
smallholder farmers and the performance of the country's major agricultural
institution, WSTEC. In April 1985, IDA approved a US$2 million credit
(Credit No. 1582-WSO) for use by the Development Bank of Western Samoa (DBWS)
to promote investment in smallholder agriculture and agro-based industries and
to improve the Government's industrial policy framework, together with
measures to strengthen DBWS.
Lending Strategy
15.       Basic IDA lending strategy in Western Sanoa has been to broaden the
productive base of the economy through diversifying agricultural output,
raising productivity, strengthening major development institutions, improving
basic infrastructure and, in longer term, promoting the development of viable
agro-based industries. IDA has worked closely with ADB in pursuit of these
developmental objectives. It has provided inputs into an ADB survey of the
development issues and options in the Western Samoan agriculture sector
(1984). For 1986, it is planned that IDA staff will examine options for
export diversification and expansion of associated agro-industries.
16.       Western Samoa is one of the least developed countries in the region,
for which UNDP organizes periodic consultations with potential donors, includ-
ing IDA. The last such consultation took place in 1983 and the next one is
planned for the spring of 1986. Previous IDA projects provided a basis for
fruitful dialogue and collaboration among major donor agencies, notably ADB
and bilateral donors. Institution-building involving major econnmic sectors
of Western Samoa has been a prominent objective of such collaboration. The
proposed project, which will include priority investments identified in DP5,
will support the Government's efforts to promote development, with investments
in agriculture, transportation and industry. These subprojects would benefit
from past IDA involvement in these sectors; they will facilitate the
continuing dialogue, in association with ADB, with prominent developmental
institutions in the country.
Lending Constraints
17.       IDA lending operations in Western Samoa are constrained by the small
size of the projects and the limited absorptive capacity, which make the use
of standard Bank Group project evaluation and implementation procedures very
costly in terms of both deployment of the Bank Group manpower and financial



- 5 -
costs. Encountering similar constraints, ADB has developed a "multiproject
approach" for use in the small Pacific Islands where the scale of individual
investment projects is frequently too small for multilateral financing. This
concept, under which investment projects too small individually to be consi-
dered for external financing are grouped together, is a cost-effective method
of addressing the multisector developmental needs of such countries. In pro-
moting multisectoral transfer of know-how relating to project selection,
appraisal and monitoring, this approach also makes a special contribution to
building institutional capacity for project implementation which is of
critical importance for these countries. The ADB and IDA are collaborating in
evaluating and financing of mutually acceptable multiprojects, ADB taking the
lead in project appraisal, supervision and loan disbursement activities. The
proposed project has been conceived and evaluated for joint ADB/IDA financing
under such an arrangement. The subproject components were drawn from DP5; the
agriculture-related subproject reflects the findings of the 1984 ADB -
supported agricultural sector survey (para. 15). ADB, with IDA participation,
has taken the lead in the initial appraisal of the proposed multiproject and
will provide grant funds for the Government's hiring of consultants for assis-
tance with subsequent detailed evaluation of each subproject, on the basis of
criteria agreed by IDA, ADB and the Government. ADB would help finance all
four subprojects proposed. IDA funds would support the subprojects related
to: (a) the Tree Crop Support, and (b) Upgrading of Rural Roads.
Experience Under Previous Projects
18.       Three IDA  projects are currently under implementation in Western
Samoa: the US$8.0 million credit for Agricultural Development I, the
US$2.0 million credit for Agricultural Development II (1080-WSO) which is co-
financed with ADB, and the US$2.0 million credit for the DBWS (1582-WSO), also
cofinanced with ADB in the lead (para. 14). Disbursements under the former
projects lagged behind disbursement estimates and implementation has been slow
chiefly due to managerial and financial difficuLties of the implementing
agency, WSTEC. The Bank Group has participated in frequent interagency
meetings which have helped WSTEC to address its most serious difficulties.
Project implementation and the disbursement trends have been improving. To
avoid similar delays in implementation of the proposed multiproject,
consultants (a civil engineer/construction management expert and a crop diver-
sification agronomist) would be hired to assist the Government (para. 55).
PART III - THE SECTORS
A. The Agricultural Sector
19.       Background.  The areas with agricultural potential in Western Samoa
lie between the coast and about 1,000 feet elevation. Some 80% of the land
area (560,000 acres) is held, in accordance with Samoan tradition, as
customary land. The Government controls 11% (77,000 acres), WSTEC 5% (35,000
acres) and freehold lands amount to 4% (26,000 acres). Most of cultivated
customary land is under aged coconut trees, with the balance used for taro and
bananas. About 17,000 acres of WSTEC lands are under coconuts, coffee, cocoa,



bananas and pastures. The productive lands, including WSTEC properties, total
about 150,000 acres (about 20Z of the totaL area) scattered over the two main
islands. The uncultivated lands are covered by forest or secondary scrub,
with the most valuable timber resources being in the range of 1,000 to
1,500 feet above sea level. Climatic factors such as rainfall (from 80 to
120 inches per annum), temperature (750 to 90'F) and humidity enhance crop
production. However, occasional strong winds cause damage, especially to
banana crops in exposed areas.
20.       Agriculture accounts for over 50Z of GDP, contributes about 90% to
the country's export earnings, and as much as 50% of the population depends on
it for their livelihood. The sector, however, is characterized by low produc-
tivity and overall production has been stagnant during the past decade.
21.       Most of the agricultural and livestock production, which originates
in village areas, is for subsistence, and yields are uniformly low. In the
past, production increases were brought about by expansion of the cultivated
area, but good agricultural land, with moderate to high fertility and suitable
topography, is becoming scarce. The situation is further complicated by the
lack of incentive for villagers to invest money or labor in Land improvement
(because the land is generally communally owned), and by villagers' doubts
about the benefits of such investments since there are only few examples of
successful intensive development anywhere in the country.
22.       Development Objectives.  The Government's development objectives in
the agriculture sector, as set forth in DP5, are to: (a) attain greater self-
reliance in food production; (b) strengthen and broaden the national export
base; (c) save foreign exchange through limited import substitution;
(d) exploit new opportunities for agricultural processing; and (e) conserve
the natural resources and environment. Development strategies in agriculture
are aimed at strengthening the production base through rehabilitation, expan-
sion and diversification of crops, including those of private smallholders,
with the Government providing the necessary inputs (extension of credit, tech-
nology and institutional support). Rehabilitation of major tree crops (coco-
nut, cocoa and coffee) and agricultural diversification through the develop-
ment of new crops (rubber, pepper, oil palm, fruit crops, cloves, etc.) may
provide the necessary impetus to invigorate the slackening agricuLtural
sector. Diversification will be promoted through the establishment of pilot
farms in appropriate agriculture zones. With a view to encouraging agricul-
tural activities, the Government has provided incentives to farmers by not
levying tax on income derived from farming. Similar incentives are also given
to fishermen.
23.       Constraints and Development Strategy.  The basic agricultural deve-
lopment issues confronting Western Samoa at present ars: (a) how to increase
productivity, production, and exports of traditional crops (coconuts, cocoa
and coffee) rapidly and thus substantially close the resource gap; and (b) how
to initiate and increase subsistence farmers' participation in this effort and
its benefits in the absence of large-scale deveLopment alternatives. The
latter will entail working within existing sociological and institutional con-
straints so as to avoid unwarranted dislocations of the socioeconomic struc-
ture in the country. Progress in village agriculture, however, is difficult



-7-
unless research and extension activities are considerably improved, an acti-
vity supported under the ongoing Second Agricultural DeveloDment Project
(Cr. 1080-WSO). The other constraints, including supply of high-yielding
varieties of seed, fertilizers, and pesticides, would be addressed under the
proposed project (paras. 36-42).
B. The Industrial Sector
24.       Industrial development in Western Samoa is still at an early
stage. The share of manufacturing in GDP stood at 52 in 1978 and rose to
about 6Z in 1984. Despite this relatively modest share of GDP, industrial
development h-as contributed significantly to job creation and saved (or
earned) foreign exchange. Industrial development has resulted in the intro-
duction of new technology, in addition to diversifying the export base of the
economy. About 50% of the country's manufacturing activity is concentrated in
the food, beverage and tobacco subsectors.
25.       The main objectives for industrial development, as set out in DP5,
are to: (i) contribute to a structural strengthening of the country's balance
of payments through diversification and expansion of export manufacturing and
import substitution; (ii) increase processing of the country's traditional
agricultural products; (iii) create paid employment opportunities;
(iv) encourage development of processing industries; and (v) encourage local
entrepreneurship in the form of joint-ventures with foreign partners and
small-scale village industries.
26.       It is important that an attractive environment be created for indus-
trial development. At present, there is the Enterprises Incentives Act,
amended in 1984, which rationalizes the system of incentives for industrial
development. DP5 envisages that these incentives will be constantly reviewed
with necessary adjustments in the Government's fiscal, monetary and exchange
rate policies. During the DP5 period, an industrial survey will be undertaken
with a view to formulating comprehensive poLicy recommendations to accelerate
industrial development. The survey will be financed under the IDA credit no.
1582-WSO (Development Bank of Western Samoa project), with cofinancing by ADB
and UNDP. Construction of a small industries center under the proposed
project (paras. 46-47) will be of assistance in development of small
industrial pLants.
C. The Infrastructure Sector
27.       Roads.  Western Samoa is generally well served by a network of main
and feeder roads which has been considerably improved in the past ten years.
In 1984, the length of the road system was estimated at about 2,180 km, of
which 945 km formed part of the primary road network and 1,235 km were feeder
roads and plantation access roads. About 665 km of the primary roads were
paved. Nevertheless, insufficient access to certain inland areas remains one
of the constraints to agricultural production and has adversely affected
harvesting as weLl as replanting of coconut.



- 8 -
28.       Under DP5, priority will be given to maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading of the existing road network. The Government's program for the road
subsector is divided into three subcomponents: (i) upgrading of rural roads;
(ii) upgrading of urban roads; and (iii) improving plantation access roads.
The proposed project would support rural roads upgrading in the eastern part
of Upolu (paras. 43-45).
D. Marine Transport Sector
29.       The harbor at Apia has wharfage available for two vessels of up to
9 m draft, with additional berths for smaller vessels. Tug service and
storage facilities are also available. There are regular sailings from Apia
to Europe, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Japan and the major
Pacific Islands. A regional shipping line, the Pacific Forum Line, which was
established in 1977, provides regular service among Western Samoa, Fiji,
Tonga, Nauru, the Cook Islands, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand and
Australia. A refrigerated container service is provided to several destina-
tions. A fleet of motor vessels provides passenger and cargo service between
Western Samoa and American Samoa. Two vehicular ferries and numerous other
vessels connect Upolu and Savai'i.
30.       The DP5 places emphasis on:  (i) maintaining and improving safety
and efficiency of sea transport; (ii) upgrading of the goods handling facili-
ties at the Apia Port by addition of containerization facilities; and
(iii) providing improved access to the existing ports of Mulifanua, Salelologa
and Asau. The shift to containerization requires urgent adjustments in the
goods handling facilities at the Apia Port. An in-depth study of the develop-
ment of a container park at the Apia Port recommended a rehabilitation and up-
grading of the wharf area to facilitate economic and efficient handling of
containers (paras. 48-50). It is estimated that this rehabilitation/upgrading
would lead to a 30Z increase in handling productivity, and would enable the
facilities to cope with the projected increase in traffic.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed muLtiproject was identified in early 1985 and appraised
in June 1985 by an ADB mission in which IDA staff participated. An ADB loan
has been approved by ADB's Board of Directors on November 19, 1985. The ADB's
appraisal report, dated October 1985, on the proposed project is being distri-
buted separately. IDA credit negotiations with the Government were held by
telex from December 9-12, 1985. Supplementary credit and project data are
provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
32.       The project consists of a group of high-priority public sector sub-
projects in the agriculture, industry and infrastructure sectors. These sub-
projects complement each other, and/or support specific production activities,
with a view to strengthening and diversifying of the economic base, enhancing
generation of new economic activities, and creating new employment opportuni-



ties. Our considerations in support of these subprojects were: (i) they are
accorded a high priority by the Government in its DP5 and are supported, also,
by ADB, and uNDP; (ii) their complementary nature and support of productive
activities; and (iii) their estimated acceptable economic rates of return,
specifically in the cases of agricultural and road development subprojects.
33.       Although these subprojects have been evaluated to determine their
suitability for ADB/IDA financing, detailed economic analysis of the indi-
vidual subprojects will be undertaken by the Government, with assistance of
consultants to be engaged under the proposed ADB Technical Assistance grant
(para. 54). The resuLts of these analyses will be provided by the Government
to the ADB and IDA for approval, before funds from the credit can be dis-
bursed.  (This procedure is similar to the one followed by ADB and IDA for
their DFC operations). The economic criteria, which have been established for
analyzing the subprojects (para. 34), include a cutoff point of 12Z economic
rate of return for the Tree Crops Development and Upgrading of Rural Roads
Subprojects. For the Container Park Upgrading subproject, sufficient revenues
should be generated to recover the capital costs and to cover the recurrent
costs. In respect of the Small Industries Center (SIC) subproject, its opera-
tions would be based on "no-profit and no-loss" principle. The charges levied
from users should recover the costs, but not discourage the establishment or
continued operation of industries within the premises.
34.       If, on detaiLed economic analysis, any of the subprojects did not
meet the agreed criteria, it would be deleted and replaced by another subproj-
ect which would meet the criteria set by the ADB and IDA, be subject to
similar detailed appraisal and should remain within the total amount of the
proposed ADB and IDA financing for the project.
Project Components
35.       The subprojects selected to constitute the Project are as follows:
(a) Staff, facilities and production of planting materials in support of
a tree crop development program in Upolu and Savai'i IsLands;
(b) Rural Roads Upgrading in the eastern part of Upolu;
(c) Construction of a Small Industries Center at the Vaitele Industrial
Estate, west of Apia; and
(d) Container Park Upgrading at Apia Wharf.
Subproject 1: Tree Crop Support
36.       The 1984 Western Samoa Agricultural Sector Survey by the ADB
(para. 15) identified a number of economically viable agricultural projects.
Among these, the highest priority has been accorded to the development of tree
crops, including coconut, cocoa and coffee which historically have given
satisfactory economic benefits, as confirmed during appraisal by ADB/IDA
staff. Coconut is the prime crop in the country. Its production has declined
markedly in recent years due to poor management, poor quality of planting



- 10 -
materials, unsatisfactory processing facilities and fluctuating prices.
Critical needs now are replanting of areas under old coconut trees, planting
of hybrids, increased use of fertilizers and pesticides and improved manage-
ment. New plantings of coffee are also required principally to meet demand in
the domestic market. DP5 envisages tree crop planting are as follows:
Thousand Acres
Hybrid coconut - WSTEC             -            1.7
Hybrid coconut - farmers           -            1.9
LocaL tall coconut -farmers        -            3.0
Cocoa - WSTEC                      -            2.4
Cocoa Suspensory Loan Scheme       -            2.8
Cocoa Replanting Scheme            -            0.8
Coffee - farmers                   -            0.5
37.       Over the last six years, the Department of Agriculture, Forests and
Fisheries (DAFF) has been conducting research on hybrid coconut, and improved
varieties of cocoa and coffee. This research indicated that the productivity
of these crops could be greatly increased through the adoption by farmers of
improved planting materiaLs, together with appropriate levels of other inputs
and good husbandry. The objective of this subproject would be to introduce
such a program and, through further investigation, to seek ways of diversify-
ing the traditional cropping pattern with new crops for eventual commercial
production. The subproject would provide the additional staff, facilities and
planting materials needed to support a credit assisted planting program,
tentatively expected to comprise about 2,000 acres (800 ha) of hybrid coconut,
about 800 acres (320 ha) of Amelhnado cocoa and about 300 acres (120 ha) of
improved Robusta coffee, for implementation over six years (1986-91). A more
detailed planting program will be prepared and evaluated by the Government
assisted by consultants before final approval by ADB/IDA. Agricultural credit
to finance farmers' development costs which is excluded from project costs and
financing, will be provided by the Development Bank of Western Samoa (DBWS) on
terms set for IDA's DBWS project (Credit No. 1582-WSO). It will include the
cost of planting materials, fertilizers and agricultural chemicals. The
provision of credit for the supply of planting materials, which will be sold
at cost, will enable the Government to recover that part of the subproject
cost directly from farmers. Planting materials for the subproject will be
obtained from the existing Hybrid Coconut Seed Garden at Olomanu in the west
of UpoLu Island and by the establishment of new coconut seedling nurseries.
Improved planting materials of cocoa and coffee will be supplied from the
existing Nu'u Crop Development Station near Apia. The program will be
directed to farmers outside plantations in both the main islands (Upolu and
Savai'i).
38.       In support of the Government's objective of diversifying crop pro-
duction, the subproject will provide services and facilities for introducing
new crops. Pilot plots (1 to 10 acres, or 0.4 to 4 ha) of new crops will be
established on land belonging to private farmers.
39.       The subproject would include provision of consultants' services
comprising a crop diversification agronomist (18 man-months), a coconut spe-
cialist (36 man-months) and a cocoa/coffee specialist (36 man-months), and



- 11 -
training for officers of Department of Agriculture, and Forests and Fisheries
(DAFF) involved in this subproject. The terms of reference for the consult-
ants who would be cofinanced under the proposed project are given in Annex IV;
terms of reference for other services to be provided under the project are
presented in Annex 5 of the ADB Appraisal Report. These services would be
secured from 1987 onwards (Annex V).
40.       In addition, a coconut development officer would be appointed under
the subproject to implement the hybrid coconut planting program. He will be
assisted and advised by the consultant coconut specialist and will be the
consultant's counterpart. Additional field staff will be recruited for
coconut development, comprising six coconut officers and six field assistants
who will be under the direction of the coconut development officer.
41.       Cocoa development will be carried out in conjunction with the
ongoing Cocoa DeveLopment Project financed by Australian aid and will be under
the jurisdiction of the Crop Development Officer based at Nu'u Crop
Development Station. This officer will be under the jurisdiction of the Cocoa
Project Manager who is the counterpart to the present consultant tree crop
agronomist. In addition to the existing field staff employed under the cocoa
development project, two coffee development officers will be recruited under
the subproject, one based in Upolu and one in Savai'i. A full time counter-
part to the consultant crop diversification agronomist will be appointed and
designated as Crop Diversification Officer. He will report directly to the
Assistant Director, Research and Technical Services, DAFF.
42.       The existing extension services will support the implementation of
the subproject by close cooperation with specialist staff working on specific
crops. The extension staff will, among other activities, identify potential
participants, promote the subproject activities among farmers in their areas
and assist in the supervision of field nurseries and in the supervision of
planting and maintenance of selected crops.
Subproject 2: Rural Roads Upgrading
43.       The selection of this subproject is based on the Western Samoa
Transportation Study of 1981, undertaken by Pak-Poy, Kneebone Pty from
Australia, which was financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB). The subproject comprises the upgrading of about 29 kms of rural roads
in the eastern part of the island of Upolu, which show satisfactory economic
returns, including: (i) a section of the Le Mafa pass road which runs from
Falefa to Lotofaga; and (ii) the Richardson (Atua) Road running between Vaipu
and Samusu. These road sections, included in DP5, have emerged from the 1981
study as two most viable road projects, with preliminary rates of returns of
about 25Z and 222, respectively.
44.       The Le Mafa Pass road is the only cross-island road link in the
island of Upolu, connecting the East Coast Road and the South Coast Road and
is considered to be the most scenic route of the country, giving it importance
to the tourist industry as well. Heavy rainfall combined with generally
inadequate road drainage and many steep slopes - some in excess of 10% - have
resulted in severe erosion of the gravel pavement. As a result, vehicle



- 12 -
operating and road maintenance costs are high. It is proposed that the 8.6 km
long northern section of this road be upgraded under the subproject, from
Falevao, where the existing asphalt pavements end, to Vaipu, where the
Richardson Road branches off. As this section of the Le Mafa Pass forms the
access to the Richardson Road, improvement of the latter wouLd be less
meaningful unless access is also upgraded. The road runs partly along an
escarpment; major improvements to its geometrics would, therefore, be very
costly and in view of the relatively small amount of traffic - 135 vehicles
per day - seem unwarranted. It is, therefore, envisaged that the improvement
of this section of road will be limited to minor corrections of the
geometrics, improvement of the drainage and sealing of the pavement.
45.       The original Richardson Road (track), with a length of about 19 km,
was constructed about five years ago. It connects the villages of the south-
east Upolu to the Le Mafa Pass Road which is at its western terminus at
Vaipu. In the western portion of the road, the terrain is mountainous and the
grades are steep and substandard; rainfall is heavy and maintenance costs are
high. The gravel surface of the Richardson Road is severely eroded in some of
the steeper sections and drainage is generally inadequate throughout its
length, causing severe rutting at many locations. The road is barely passable
by other than four-wheel-drive vehicles. The Government proposes to upgrade
the road through improvement of the vertical alignment and the drainage, and
by protecting the pavement structure with a bituminous surface. It also
proposes to provide a bituminous surface to about 1.5 km of gravel road south
of Samusu to connect the improved Richardson Road to the existing paved road
section along the island's east coast.
Subproject 3: Small Industries Center
46.       To encourage the establishment of small-scale industrial enter-
prises, a small industries center (SIC) within the existing Vaitele industrial
estate (about 6.5 km west of Apia) will be established. This subproject
consists of site development, access roadway, utility connections (water and
power supply, telecommunications and sewerage), and construction of factory
sheds partitioned to provide suitably spaced work areas. Initially, factory
space amounting to about 8,000 square feet is proposed. The subdivided work
areas have not yet been determined; the exact composition will be derived from
a detailed assessment of existing and future demand for factory space by local
entrepreneurs based on a preliminary assessment of economic viability of their
respective proposed activities.
47.       Once completed, the factory space will be available for rent to
local enterpreneurs, either independent or iil joint venture association with
foreign partners. Rents will be set at levels that will allow the recovery of
recurrent costs for administering and maintaining SIC (para. 62).



- 13 -
Subproject 4: Upgrading of Container Park
48.       This subproject originates from recommendations made in the report
of a Container Park Study related to Apia Harbour (1984), financed by the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and undertaken by
Port and Transport Consulting Bremen, GmbH, Federal Republic of Germany. This
study indicated that an organized container terminal in Apia Harbour would
contribute towards a more economic utilization of the wharf area; it would
speed up the process of cargo handling, induce regular liner shipping, enable
a more expeditious handling of agricultural products. and minimize spoilage of
such produce.
49.       At present, the annual volume of container traffic is approximately
6,000 twenty-tons equivalent units (TEU) which are handled in several make-
shift areas on the wharves. Inadequacy of storage facilities seriously handi-
cap the operations of the port.
50.       The proposed subproject, which is designed to upgrade the container
park at the Apia wharf, would consist of the following components:
(a) paving the working areas and roads within the compound
(approximately 24,000 sq. m};
(b) installing an organized container marshalling yard which calls for
the orderly laying down of container slots duly marked out and
numbered in clearly defined areas of the port;
(c) dismantling Shed No. 2 which was damaged by fire, to provide space
for the storage of containers on an organized container park; and
(d) overhauling some shed roofs, lighting, drainage, and fire fighting
equipment.
Cost Estimates
51.       The total project cost, including contingencies, interest charges
during construction, taxes and duties, and technical assistance, is estimated
at about US$9.8 million of which about US$6.7 million (69%) would be in
foreign exchange and about US$3.1 million (31Z) would be in local currency. A
physical contingency of 10% has been applied for civil works and 15% for
equipment and supplies. Price increases over ;he project implementation
period are estimated at about US$1.2 million.2
Financing Plan
52.       An IDA credit of US$2.5 million is proposed to cover US$2.1 million
of the foreign exchange cost and US$0.4 million equivalent of the local cur-
2/   Expected price increases, by CY and Z, are assumed to be as follows:
1985 0.5(-); 1986 7.0; 1987 7.0; 1988 7.5; 1989 7.7; 1990 7.6; 1991 4.5.



- 14 -
rency cost for the Tree Crop Support and Upgrading of Rural Roads subprojects
jointly cofinanced with the ADB. The ADB and UNDP would each make a technical
assistance grant of US$250,000. The ADB would finance US$4.1 million of the
foreign exchange cost and US$0.3 million of the local currency costs. The
remaining local currency requirement of about US$2.4 million would be met by
the Government from its annual budgets. In accordance with the agreements to
be contained by a Letter of Credit Administration between IDA and ADB, the IDA
funds would be administered by the ADB. A special condition of effectiveness
of the IDA credit would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the ADB loan have been fulfilled. The table below provides details of the
proposed financing plan:
Local   Foreign  Total
Financing Plan                                  ------- US$'000 -------
IDA Credit                           440      2,060     2,500
ADB Loan                             255      4,145     4,400
ADB-Technical Assistance grant         5        245        250
UNDP-Technical Assistance grant        5        245       250
Government contribution            2,352        -       2,352
Total                         3,057     §695       9,752
53.       The ADB grant will finance 14 man-months of consultants' services
for the detailed analyses of the four subprojects. The UNDP technical assis-
tance grant will finance the services of experts for the subprojects during
implementation and generally assist the Government in supervising their exe-
cution (paras. 17 and 54).
Technical Assistance
54.       Technical assistance would be funded from three sources:  ADB, UNDP
and IDA (paras. 52 and 54). The ADB grant will be used to finance the ser-
vices of a project economist - 3 man-months, tree crop agronomist - 2 man-
months, institutional credit specialist - 1 man-month and civil works
engineer/industrial designer - 8 man-months, to finalize details of the four
subprojects.  The UNDP technical assistance grant will finance full cost (9
man-months, $150,000) of a civil engineer/construction management expert and
part of the cost (12 man-months out of 18 man-months, $100,000 out of
$281,000) of a crop diversification agronomist. The balance of US$181,000
will be financed from the ADB loan and the IDA credit. In addition, a coconut
specialist and a cocoa and coffee specialist, each for 36 man-months, will
also be financed under the ADB loan and the IDA credit at a total cost of
U7$720,000.  Therefore, the total cost of 3 consultants to be financed is
US$901,000, which will be shared between ADB ($467,000) and IDA ($434,000).
Procurement
55.       All goods and services for the project will be procured in accor-
dance with the ADB Guidelines for Procurement, which were modeled after those
of the World Bank and IDA. It has been agreed, however, that suppliers and



- 15 -
contractors of IDA members would be eligible to bid on items to be funded
under the proposed credit. Under ADB guidelines, with respect to the Tree
Crop Support subproject, the agricultural inputs would be procured on the
basis of international shoppiag. The civil works required for this
subproject, for the Small Industries Center subproject and for the Container
Park subproject, which are small and are not expected to attract international
construction firms, will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
among prequalified local contractors selected in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to ADB. Civil works required for
the Rural Roads subproject, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB), with the state-owned Special Projects Development
Corporation (SPDC) being considered prequalified to bid. The following table
presents a summary of the proposed procurement arrangements:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$'9000  /a
ICB       LCB      Other /c   NA /d    Total
Tree Crop Development
Civil Works                              195                             195
(55)/e                         (55)
Equipment & Supplies           245/b    245                              490
(70)      (70)                           (140)
Training                                                      300        300
(195)     (195)
Consultancies                                   1,250                  1,250
(550)                 (550)
Incremental Operating Cost                                    357        357
(60)      (60)
Upgrading of Rural Roads
Civil Works                 4,295                                      4,295
(1,500)                                   (1,500)
TotaL                    4,540        440    1,250         657      6,887
(1,570)     (125)    (550)       (255)   (2,500)
/a   Costs include taxes and contingencies.
rb   International competitive bidding or prudent shopping.
7T   Includes recruitment of consultants.
7i   Includes training and recurrent expenditures.
re   Figures in the bracket are proposed IDA contributions.



- 16 -
Project Implementation
56.       The four subprojects fall under the jurisdiction of different
government departments. The Treasury Department will act as the project
Executing Agency. To facilitate coordination in the implementation of subpro-
jects, a Project Coordination Committee will be established within the
Treasury Department within two months after the effective date of the ADB Loan
and IDA credit. The Financial Secretary will be the Project Coordinator and
will be responsible for overall coordination and execution of the Project and
will act as the Chairman of the Project Coordination Committee. The Committee
will have the following senior government officials as members: the Director
of the Department of Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries, the Director of the
Department of Public Works, the Director of the Department of Economic
Development and the Assistant Secretary for the Marine Division of the
Department of Transport.
57.       The Government will establish within the Treasury Department a
Project Executing Office, within two months after the effective date of the
ADB loan and the IDA credit. This office will be headed by the Deputy
Financial Secretary who will be the Project Administrator. The Project
Administrator will be responsible for the day-to-day coordination and
preparation of subproject appraisals, for supervising the implementation of
subprojects, channelling funds to the implementing agencies, and contracts
with the ADB, IDA, UNDP, and any other agencies concerned.
58.       The following agencies wilL be responsible for the implementation of
the individual subprojects, including all technical, construction and procure-
ment activities, under the overall coordination of the Project Administrator:
Subproject 1: Tree Crop Support - Department of Agriculture, Forests and
Fisheries (DAFF); in association with the Development Bank
of Western Samoa (DBWS);
Subproject 2: Rural Roads Upgrading - Department of Public Works (DPW);
Subproject 3: Small Industries Center - Department of Economic
Development (DED), in association with the DPW;
Subproject 4: Container Park upgrading - Marine and Shipping Department
(MSD), in association with the DPW.
59.       Based on the tentative schedule of the subprojects, the project as a
whole is expected to be implemented over a period of six-years. Periods for
completion of the individual subprojects are estimated to be as follows:
(a) The Tree Crop Support subproject within six years;
(b) The Rural Roads Upgrading subproject within four years;
(c) The Small Industries Center subproject within two years; and
(d) The Container Park upgrading subproject within two years.



- 17 -
A more detailed implementation schedule in bar-chart format is given in
Annex V. This schedule has been prepared in consultation with Government and
the ADB.
60.       To facilitate the implementation of the Tree Crop Support Subpro-
ject, the Government will, within two months after the date of ADB and IDA
loan effectiveness, establish a Subproject Coordinating Committee consisting
of the Director of DAFF as Chairman and the following members: the Financial
Secretary of the Treasury Department or his nominee, the General Manager of
DBWS, the Deputy Director of DAFF, the Assistant Director for Research and
Technical Services of DAFF, the Cocoa Development Officer and the Coconut
Development Officer who will be recruited by the Government for the
subproject.
61.       Lands and Right-of-way.  The Government will make available all
lands and right-of-way required for the project and, for this purpose, will
(i) ensure that all the requisite formalities, authorizations and arrangements
are adopted and undertaken for timely implementation of the Rural Roads Up-
grading subproject; and (ii) provide about ten to twenty acres of the Vaitele
Industrial Estate for the construction of the facilities under the SIC
subproject.
62.       Cost Recovery.  Assurances have been obtained from the Government
about cost recoveries as detailed below:
(a) Agricultural Credit for Use in tree crop development. Credits to be
extended by DBWS for the development of coconut, cocoa and coffee
shall be recovered from participating farmers in accordance with
repayment terms and conditions under the DBWS project (para. 37);
(b) Charges for use of SIC Facilities. The charges for the use of
facilities to be provided under the SIC subproject shall be set at
levels to cover operation and maintenance expenses and would be
based on the "no-profit and no-loss" principle. There would be
annual reviews thereafter (para. 47);
(c) User Charges for Container Park. The Government will continue to
collect user charges from vessels and consignees, utilizing the
container park at Apia Wharf, at levels which will generate suffi-
cient revenues to meet operating and maintenance costs as well as to
recover the capitaL costs of the facilities to be upgraded under the
Project.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursement of the IDA credit proceeds would be made over a six-
year period (1986-91), on a joint basis with ADB, for the Tree Crop Support
and Rural Roads Upgrading subprojects. Withdrawal applications will be
reviewed by ADB, under procedures specified in a Letter of Credit Administra-
tion between IDA and ADB (para. 52), and disbursement from the IDA credit
would be made upon ADB's telexed advice. A Special Account would be opened at



- 18 -
the Central Bank of Western Samoa to expedite disbursements. The IDA funds,
together with ADB disbursements, would cover for the Tree Crop Support and
Rural Roads Upgrading subprojects: (a) 1OOZ of total expenditure for
training, incremental staff operating costs, and consultants (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures of directly imported goods, or, 10OZ of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory costs) of locally manufactured goods, and 80% of local
expenditure for goods procured locally, and (c) 60% for civil works under the
Tree Crop Support subproject, and 95% for civil works under the Rural Roads
Upgrading subproject.
Accounting and Auditing
64.       The Government would maintain separate accounts for all the four
subprojeccs and have such accounts and related financiaL statements audited
annually by auditors acceptable to ADB and IDA. It wouLd furnish to both, as
soon as available but in any event not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, certified copies of such audited accounts and financial
statements and the report of the auditors relating to them.
Environmental Considerations
65.       None of the proposed subprojects are expected to have any signifi-
cant adverse environmental effects. Tree crop development is expected to
improve land utilization. The SIC subproject is not expected to adversely
affect the environmental conditions since it will ba located within the
Vaitele Industrial Estate which has already been in operation for several
years. Conversely, it will help reduce pollution in residential areas since
some of the industries which are current v located in such areas may well move
their plants to the SIC. Improvement of the drainage of the project roads
will reduce detrimental ponding of water. Dust poLlution from the existing
gravel roads, a nuisance if not a health hazard to both the adjacent popula-
tion and to road users, will be eliminated through the provision of bituminous
surfacing.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       The selected subprojects appear feasible and justifiable.  Economic
rates of return for tree crop development are likeLy to be in excess of 12%,
confirming earlier ADB studies (1984) during an agricultural sector survey.
The upgrading of Rural Roads subproject is likely to have a rate of return of
22-25% according to consultant estimates noted in para. 43. Full details of
the subprojects and their benefits will be availabLe after the subprojects
have been fully analyzed by the project-financed consultants. Quantifiable
benefits from the proposed subprojects would include higher incomes for
smallholder farmers, increased export earnings from additional agriculture
output, and lower transportation costs. At full production, about 3,000 tons
of copra, 350 tons of cocoa and 160 tons of coffee per annum would be
realized. The Rural Roads Upgrading subproject would save vehicle operating
costs, improve flow of goods and reduce pollution. After the improvement of
the Apia Wharf Container Park subproject, containers would be transported over
a level pavement and would enhance the safety of the port operations in
general, and of the dock workers and other harbor personnel in particular.



- 19 -
67.       Given the arrangements agreed for final analysis of each subproject,
remaining risks are mostly possible delays in the procurement of equipment and
materials which would adversely affect implementation. To minimize these
risks, consultants will also assist the Government in monitoring and reviewing
progress during implementation. Regular ADB/IDA joint supervision missions
will review and evaluate the implementation of the subprojects.
,PART V - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 9, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNME I
Page 1 of 5
-20-
WESTRN S5A            - SOCIAL ltCATUS DATA SKiET
WESTERN SAIMA                      REFECE CRWS (VEICGUED AVRMS) To
mmST                    (MSt. ICENT RMb1E) /b
IICCCIIT        IIIDDLC. I11K          DDLC TX-cm
j960!!     197OLb ISTIAb          ASIA S PACIFIC        LAT. AlNlLCA & CAR
AEA (TOSAND . E)
TOTAL                              2.9        2.9         2.9
AGAICULIURAL                       3.1        1.2         IZ.
GN PM CAPTA (CUS$)                    ..         ..         ..              1011.1                  1875.9
- CO_DTZ  FM e1Nl
(KILOCRM  OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      54.0       82.0       231.0            56.8                     993.6
WOPULATI -M VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.Nl3-YEAR (THOUSNDS)    110.0      162.0      161.0
URBN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)      18.9       20.3        22.1              35.9                    67.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPIIATIOn IN TEA 2000 (MILL)                          0.2
sTrtaAitN POPULATION (CILL)                             0.5
POPULAT'IONOTrU                                         1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KR.                     38.5       49.7        56.3             386.9                    48.0
PER SQ. UK. ArRI. LAND         103.8       3Z3.5      132.5            1591.2                    91.1
POPULATION SAE STRlUCTURE ()
0-1 Tts                        48.0        47.4       40.4              38.2                    38.5
15-64 IRS                       48.9       49.9        54.3             57.7                     57.1
65 AND M BVE                     3.1        2.7         5.2               3.5                     4.2
POPUL0TION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                            2.9        2.6         1.0               2.3                     2.4
URAN                             6.8        3.3         2.4               4.1                     3.6
CIRUDE SLtIIn RAI  (PI  THNUS)     ..         ..         37.9             30.1                     30.9
CRm  DnATH RATE (PER TmOS)         ..          .I 81                       9.4                      .0
CROSS RERODUCTION RATE             ..          3.         2.4               1.9                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNSI
ACCEPTORS. ANIUAL (TROUS         ..         ...
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..                                      56.5                    45.3
fOD AI MUITION
IsN  oF POr  w PROD. PER CAPITA
(I969-71-tDO)                      ..        98.0       100.0             1k4.4                   109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALDRIES (2 OF REQUIRSCHITS)    61.0        77.0       94.0             115.7                   113.2
PREINS (CRAMS PER DAT)          33.0       47.0        62.0             60.3                     69.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      25.0        25.0       22.0 Ic           14.1                    34.2
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        0.9        3.6        0.5                7.2                     4.8
LIFE xPEcr. AT SCH (Trs)           .         6 81.0     64.6              60.6                     64.8
INFANr mEl. RATE (PER Tms)        19.0       47.5        50.S             14.9                     59.7
ACCESS TO SANE WATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                            ..         17.0       95.0 /d           46.0                    65.3
URBA                             ..        86.0        97o. 74           57.6                    76.5
RURAL                            ..         ..         94.0 7i           37.1                    44.2
ACCESS To EXCIRA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..        84.0        84.0 Id           50.1                    56.3
URBAN                            ..        100.0       88.0 78           52.9                    73.4
RURAL                            ..        80.0        83.0 7            ".7                     25.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2240.0      2840.0     2790.0 Id         77j .7                  1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          £40.0       580.0      460.0 71         2464.8                   808.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL ID
TOTAL                          200.0       220.0      230.0 /a         1112.1                   36Z.O
URBUA                           70.0       100.0      1100 7;           651.4                   422.0
RURAL                          330.0       320.0      330.0 7;         2596.9                  2716.7
ADMISSIONS PER HDSPITAL RED        ..        21.6        15.8 Ic          61.1                     27.5
BDSD
AVZERE SIlE OF HOUSsIno
TOTAL                            5.8        5.8
UBA                              ..         6.S
RURAL                            .          5.6
AVERACE NO. OF PERSOUIRlOK.
TOTAL                                        1.
URBAN                            . .         : 4        ..----
RURAL                             .         1.6
PLRCENTACE OF WELLINCES WITH ELECrT
TOTAL                            _.        1S.S
URBAN                            _.         65.8
RURAL                                       B 3S7



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                    Page 2 of 5
WESTERN SU0            - SOCIAL iUDnCATONS DAT SHEET
WESRN sA0                            m         GOUPS (CHmUD AVES) j
NOST                     (NOST NeceST ZST1U¶W     /b
RkC 17 T 0lDDIns INCOM                           tllD DIS
i9 t       19mb UIIiTI TEL         U7ASIA & PFACIFC        LAIT. AfUCiC  a CAR
moann
ACJI8TWCD IROLLMEIT LATIOS
PUIMAhI  TOTAL                   121.0       91.0         ..              100.7                     106.7
PALE                  113.0        94.0        ..               104.4                    106.5
PUIALZ                127.0        38.0        ..                97.2                    106.6
SECONDARTa TOTAL                  10.0       39.0         ..               67.6                     ".2
MALE                   12.0        36.0        ..                30.6                     62.7
lZIWZ.                  8.0        42.0        ..                 4.3                     44.9
VOCAUTONL  ( OF SCONDARY)           ..         1.3         2.8               18.4                     13.3
PDPIL-TEACIR RAIO0
PRIMARY                           34.0       26.0        21.0               30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                         20.0       22.0         ..               22.2                      16.7
PASSCU  CARS/THUSAND POP            5.0         6.3         9.1 /a           10.1                     46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/7TOUSABD POP        27.3      344.3       402.5              172.9                    328.3
TV RECZVIV TOSA  PoP                 ..         0.7        22.0               53.5                    112.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTDEST") CIRUATIN
PE  ThOUSAND POPULATION             .          .           .                65.3                      81.1
CIM       A SEPAL ATTEINANCE/CAPITA  2.6 Li     3.5         3.2 /f            3.4                       2.4
TOTAL  O1D0I FORt  (THOUS)         26.0       38.0        36.0 /h
FrMALZ (PERCEN)                    ..        14.1        16.7              33.6                      23n6
ASRICLTURtE (PERCET               69.0       66.9        67.0             25.2                       31.4
INDUSTRY (PZRCENT)                 .          7.2         7.9 7C           17.9                      24.3
PARTICIPAnIO RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             25.2       25.8        25.2 /b           38.9                      33.5
MAL                                ..        42.9        40.5 7ii           50.8                     51.3
FfE1MA                                        7.6         e.7 71           26.3                      15.9
ZCOarmuC DCPENDENCY RATIO            2.0        Id          1.6 /b             1.1                      1.3
PERECNT OP PRIVATE INCODM
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHLDS            ..
RICET   20S OF HOUXSEHOLDS         oUO.
HIGHST 202 oF fJSEOLDS             ..         ..          ..                648
LOWEST 400 oFr                                 ..         .                 15.5
ESTImTD ASOLT  POVERTY INCE
LZVEL (US PER CAPITA)
UBAN                               ..          ..         ..                 ..                     268.3
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..               151.9                    185.3
ESTIAED  RWAIV  PMRlYem      O
LEML (USS PR CAPITA)
URIAS                              ..         1. ..                        77n9                     519.8
RURAL                              .          .           .               164.7                     359.7
ESTDIATED POP. BZELU  ABSOLUTE
POVM  ICME LEVEL (Z)
URDU1                              ..         ..          ..               23.5
RuL                                ..         ..          ..               37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLCABLE
N O T E S
fa  The group averages for each indicator are populacion.eighted aritlesttc means. Covere .f comtriea
amog the indicAtors depend on availability of data and is not unform.
lb  Unlcse otbenwlsa  noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' b aten
1969 and 1971; and data for "Moat Recent EatiAt" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977; Id 1980; I- 1978; /f 1979; Li 1962; /h 1976.
JUNE, 1965



-22-                               ~~~~~~ANNEX I
-  22 -ai-         
Page 3 of 5 
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL InMCAnORS
Notee Alhougbt dhaaed drawn from soumfigSeny juded the mo authontatie ad reliab. it hold sbo be noted that they may not be intenationaly
eompaable bouse or the lack of standaudied definitions and eaepo used by diffrnt oatries in collecting the data. fle dta are noheled usefl to
desibe order of imagnitude, indic te trade, aId ehararicrenain majo dilerceu  ewee countries.
The sufere  grups ai (I) the ue country group of the subject contry and (2J a country group with somewhat higber avcge in_ome tban the country
group of the ubjeh country (excpt for -High Incme Oil Esponerar group whee Middle lnome North Africa and Middle East is chosen bhoue  of stronger
sociouiturwa sAnitie). In the efeie group data the averages ar population weighted aridunesic mans for each inditor and shon only wben majority
ofthe countries in a group has dat for thIt indiator. Sine the coverage ofcountriesamong the indicatoondepends on the avalbity ordata nd, not unifoanm,
caution mut be execid in relating average aone indictor tooanot. Thesaveramps am only useul in compasig the value oaone indi_torat a timreuo
tbe country and reference group.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crak Birth Raht (per themsd)-Number of live births in the year
Toral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland wates;  per thiousand of enid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crate Deat Rate (per thonsmas-Number of deaths in the year
Agricakufl-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
pertanently for crops, pasturem, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprdnie Rate-Average number of daughtm a woman
lie fallow, 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                            wNll bear in her norwa reproductive period if she expeiences
present age-specific fertlity rates: usuaUy five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calcuklated by same conversion method as World   f       P      -4Accr ors Anna! (thosusaads)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198 1-33 basis); 19*3 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devics under auspices of national
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual appanent                   family planing program.
consumption of cormnercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    F&msiy Plmums-Ues  (percearof -wried s        )-The pcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermial elec-  tage of married women of child-bauing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
19S2 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although ror
some countries contracptivc usage is measured for other age
POPUILATION AND VITAL STATISICS                                 groups.
Toed Pepute., Mid-Year (rhosunaa)-As of July 1:1960. 1c70.      FOOD AND NRITION
and 1983 data.
Iatex offmnd Preacriaa Per Caprba (1969to tota-l Ilndex ofper
Urba ftPofifion (percent of totafl-Ratia  of urban to total     capita annual production of al food cornmodities. Production
population: daifferet dn tionstof urban1areasmaya fr  cmpar     excludes animal feed and seed for agriculmue  Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 19813 data.    inlude primary commoditics (e.g. sugarcane instad of sugar)
Popalate  r jettie                                              which are edible and contain nutrints (cg. coLtee and tea are
Popuaktion ir year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses oil seds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, liestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertiity rates mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggreate production of each couniry is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average proaucer price weights 196145, i970. and
were projected at five-year interals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions undl the population became stationary.              Per Capita Spply vfcatbi  (percet ofreq.freuseas)-Coinpul-
Statonary pnuation-ls one in which age- and sex-specific nmor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in cou. try
taity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available suppliEcs comprise domcstic produc-
fertilty rates have simultaneously remained at replacement kvel  tion, imports lss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agricultur quantites used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements wcer
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiclogical needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characterstics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the ratn of decline of fertilty  agc and scx distribution of population. and allowing 10 perccnt for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household levet 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Porpultion Monurmn-ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Capi Suppy f Prwera (gras per tAf-Protein content of
continue beyond tde time that rcplaccment-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. cven after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establisned by USDA
unity. The momentum ola population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimatu stadonary popilation to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which I0 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fcrtilty remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pbapasioa  1M*.                                                 averae for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqicm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capgra Proeri Supply From Asks, and PYlse-Protein supply
Per sqkbn. agriculturai land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animalsand pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Abpdatie  Age Structure (percesJ-Children (0-14 years). vwork-  CA   (ages 1-4) Deat Rate (per rheusand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and ovcr) as perccntage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PApaLa.. Growth Rate (perceisf-teral-Annual growth rates of     from if: tables; 1960. 1970 and 1953 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-0. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
PopAlatia Growt Rate (percats)_ma--r -Annual growth rates       Lie Expectacy at Birth (years-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-S3 data.     infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



23-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lre.  Pitpd-teacher Ratio - primary and secodaroy-Total studcnts en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       roled in primary and secondary kvels divkded by numbers of
tnfat Mertary Rate (per tho_sand)-Number of infants who die     teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand hve births in a given
year: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMION
Acces to Safe Wage (parLAt of pepabdimm)-oral, urban, dad       pazssqfer Csn (pfr thousand popohd)-Passeager cars corn-
rnru-Number of people (total urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (indudes tmated surface waters or   ances. hearsu   and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Pab Receim  (per tmrand papluuo)-All types of receivers
borehols. springs and sanitary wedls) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
tive populations. In an urban area a public f-tuntain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters firom a hojse may be considered  registration of radio se  was in effect: data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be Comparable since most cntries abor  licensing.
reasonable access vwuld imply that the howiewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVReci as (per t lsandpopuditian)-TV receivers for broadcast
in retching the family's water needs                            to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years wben registration of TV sets was
Access to E.wret  lpE5a (pOTg?et it pop    atia)da, ur,         in effect.
and rurl-Number or people (total, urban, and rural) served by         m 
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper Cwcmion (per thoumind poporionj-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the coliection and disposal. with or  age cimulation of daidy gneral interest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment. of human excrc-ta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systemns or the use of pit ptivies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Populaion per Physicio,-FPbplation divided by number of prac-    Gmen A_Na Attendme per Capisa Pr Yar-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levde  number of tickets sold dunng the year. indudi..g admissions to
P-pulai per   uiwt Pernw-Po pulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and feirmale graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
---ulut 'u per Hospit'sf Bed-maal. urban, and rural-Population  Total Labor Force (rhusands)-Economically active persons. in-
(total. urbain, and rural) divided by their respecive number Of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital edsavain  rinpublicand privakt generala numberaof      students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and ilablin   cent    pitals are establishments       various countries are not comparable: 1969. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently stau ed by at leas one physician Establishments prov-  Feade rpercent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaaty custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. inc ude health and medical centers not pennanently staffed  Agrcuhue (prcent)--Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (hut by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of modi-,al facilitics.                                         Indstry (percenr)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Advisk.siont per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or  facturing and dectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
disc.iarges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P          Rate fpervent)--trat mak. amfemak-Participation
FROUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
Average Sle of  Houeh   (perseos per )ousehotd)-tl, ro.a-.      as percentages of totaL male and fenale population of all ages
andr   --A household consisis of a group of individuals wbo share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Tbese are based on ILO's
5ving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposcs.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-total, urban. and rral-      Economic Dependeny Rutt- Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dweilings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecrenage of DieNags with E/ecrrket,rotal. urban, and arual--   Percentage of Total D;spsab  Inc   (both n cas ad kind)-
Conventional dweilings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4arted Earolleat Ratios                                        The following estimales are very approximate measures of povenry
Prinary 5chool - total. male and female-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of al ages at the primary lvel as percentages of  Estiated Absoute PovertyIncmLew   1SS per capital-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income lelJ i_ that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a pinimal nutritio'.any adequate diet pliL% essential
differences in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food recqiremcits is not affordable.
are reflected in the rati is given. For somc countries with universal  Estimated Retive Porerty nacome Level rUSS per cupme --arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is on.-I-rd of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban Iet e is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment ror higher cost of
Secondzry school - total. male and female-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esramted Populato  Below Abseote Powrty ncm  Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational, or teacher training  cenr)-arbaa and rural- Fercent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolutc poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Eivrolme  (perrent ofscondarjy-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include iechnical. industrial. or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



- 24                                                     PAge
PaRe 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UFSTRN SMIOA
CGP PFR CAPTTA IN 19A3-                na                                     GOVFRNMFNT FINANCE                     19R3
'ROSS DOWFSTrIC PRODWCT TN 1983 (Current prices)                                                                  (US Mdn)
Current receipts                      43.1
nss$ mlii    X____                         Current expenditure                    29.8
Current iurplus                       13.3
GDP at market prices (estimate)    99.1          10o.0                        Development expenditure                37.9
Exports of goods                    19.1         19.1                        .External assistance (net) and
Import of goods                     50.8         50.9                           Project Grants                       27.7
MONEY. CREDIST MD PRICES             1976      1977       1978      1979      I9RO       1981      1982      1QR3     l084
?WSi million outstanding at end of peri-Fd
Monev and quast-money                 Q.2      10.9       12.7      18.2      18.2      23.1       31.2      35.4      39.9
Bank credit to public sector          3.4       2.R       7.8       12.I 1RR5           32.q      46.9      38.9       61.9
Bank credit to private sector         5.9       7.2       10.1      10.7      11.3       12.0      14.2      15.9     1.0
(Percentage or Index numbers)
Consumer price index (1980-100)       ...      66.2      67.7       75.2     100.0     120.5    142.6    16f.n        185.7
Annual percentage chanRe in:
Consumer price index                     ...            2.3       11.1      33.n      20.5      IR.1       16.4      11.9
ank credit to public sector         ...    -17.6      279.0       64.1      44.5      77.8      42.6    -17.5         7.7
Bank credit to private sector       ...      22.0      40.3        5.9       5.4       6.2      IR.3       12.n      19.5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                1982        1983         1984              HERCRAnDSE EPORTS (AVFRASE 19R2-84)
(115 *iltion)
Exports of goods                   13.1        17.9        19.1
Imports of goods                   49.R        52.3        50.8               Coconut products /c    0.5               56.9
Ttade balance                     -36.7       -34.4       -31.7               Taro                    1.R              10.8
Cocoa                  1.6               9.6
Services (net)                    -0.6         -0.4        -0.3               Timber                 0.fi               I.
Private transfers (net)            1R.8        2n.5         20.2              Beer                    0.5               3.n
Other                  2.7              1fi.1
Balance on current account       -18.5        -14.3       -11.8                     
Total            16.7             100.0
Official transfers                 11.9        15.5        10.8
ExTERSAL nEBT. 1984 (Estimate)      Tn5s "in
Nonnonetary capital (off i-
cial) /a                          2.1         4.6         5.3               Public debt.  ncl. guaranteed              66
Overall balance                    -4.5         5.R         4.3               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FPO  1984 tb           2
Gross reserves /d                   3.5         7.2         in.6              Public debt, mnl. guaranteed             54.6
RATE OF EXCRANGE      1979    1980    1981    19R2    19R3    1984            IBRD/IDA LEMNING, September 30, 1Q85    IDA
CUSS mililon)
ss51.00 - nss        1.221   I.08R   0.965   0.830   n.650   n.544
USS1 0O - USS        0.819   0.919   1.036   1.205   1.53R   1.83R            OutstandinR & disbursed                 l0n.n
Undisbursed                             fi.4
OustandlnR,  ncl. undishursed           16.4
/a  Includes errors and omssiona.
7i; Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services, excliding 114F. The ratio will decrease by 2!Z if
repayments of payments arrears (including rescheduled arrears) are excluded.
/c Includes copra, copra meal. coconut oil and coconut cream, except for 1984 when there were no export. of copra.
7d IKF definition, excluding gold.
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
September 30, 1985



-25 -                                    ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WEST1RN SAMOA
A.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 3n, 1985 /a
Amount (TISS million)
Credit                                                                 (less cancellations)
number     Year    Borrower             Purpose                        IDA      Undisbursed/b
One credit fullv disbursed                                              4.4
951-WSO    1979    Western Samoa        Agriculture Development        R.0            3.0
10RO-WSO    lqgl    Western Samoa        Agric. Development II          2.0Jc          1.1
1582-uSO    1985    Western Samoa        Development Bank of W.S.       2.0/d          2.n
Total                                       16.4            6.4
Of which has been repaid                           -
Total Now Outstanding                       16.4 
Amount sold         -
Of which has been renaid                            -
Total Now Held by IDA                       16.4             -
Total TTndisbursed                            _             6.4
Ia  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Amount expressed here is USS equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of UiSS com-
mitments.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 1.6 million (equivalent to USS2.n million at time of commitment).
7-d Credit amount is SDR 2.1 million (equivalent to USS2.0 million at time of commitment).
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 19R5)
None.



ANNEX I II
- 26 -                              Page 1
WESTERN SAMOA
MULTIPROJECT CREDIT
Supplementary Credit and Project Data
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time required to prepare project        :  6 months
(b)  Project prepared by                     : Government of Western Samoa
with assistance from ADB
and consultants
(c) First Presentation to the ADB
and IDA                               : April 1985
(d) Departure of ADB/IDA
appraisal missions                    :  June 1985
(e)  ADB approval of its loan                : November 1985
Cf)  Completion of IDA Negotiations          : December 1985
Cg)  Planned Date of Effectiveness           :  February/March 1986 V
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
Periodic participation in ADB project supervision missions.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) All subprojects would be selected and appraised in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the ADB and the IDA. Credit funds would be
disbursed for subprojects only after IDA's approval of appraisal
results (para. 33);
(b) Governmeut will make available all lands and right-of-way required
for the project and, for this purpose, will (i) ensure that all the
requisite formalities, authorizations and arrangements are adopted
and undertaken, for the timely implementation of the Rural Roads
Upgrading subproject; and (ii) provide 10-20 acres of the Viatele
Industrial Estate for the construction of facilities under the Small
Industries Center subproject (para. 62);
1/   Effectiveness expected at an early date given early Government action on
conditions precedent to ADB effectiveness which are identical to IDA
conditions (with addition of respective crosseffectiveness clauses.)



ANNEX III
- 27 -                             Page 2
(c)  The Project Coordination Committee, Project Executing Office and the
Subproject Coordination Committee (the latter for Tree Crop Develop-
ment subproject) shall be established within two months after the
date of the ADB loan and the IDA credit effectiveness (paras. 57 and
58); and
Special Condition of Effectiveness:
(d) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan shall
have been fulfilled (para. 52).



- 28 -                                ANNEX IV
Page 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR CONSULTINC SERVICES
FINANCED UNDER THE ADB LOAN AND IDA CREDIT
I.   Purpose
The purpose of these consultants services are to assist the
Government in implementing the Tree Crop Development Subproject. A Coconut
Specialist, and a Cocoa and Coffee Specialist will be recruited for 72 man-
months. In addition a Crop Diversification Agronomist wouLd be recruited for
18 months partly financed under UNDP grant and the balance under ADB Loan and
IDA Credit.
II. Terms of Reference
1.   Cocoa and Coffee Specialist
The consultant will be engaged for a period of 36 man-months. His
main function will be to advise and assist DAFF in the implementation of a
program for planting improved varieties of cocoa and coffee by private farmers
in connection with which his duties and activities may include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
(i)  advise on the production of disease-free planting materials of
cocoa and coffee in the nurseries at the Nu'u Crop Development
Station sufficient to cover the acreage according to the
planting schedule;
(ii) advise on areas suitable for planting of cocoa and coffee;
(iii) prepare packages of practices for cocoa and coffee development
including preparation of field, planting of shade trees,
fertilization, spacing, time of planting, cultural operations,
disease and pest control, etc.;
(iv) train cocoa officers, coffee officers, field assistants and
field extension officers on the cultivation technique of cocoa
and coffee;
(v)  advise on selection of suitable farmers, and availability of
requisite credit and inputs;
(vi) advise on the distribution of planting materials to selected
farmers through the coffee and cocoa development teams;
(vii) organize visits by the cocoa and coffee development teams to
selected farmers at regular intervals to demonstrate planting
and follow-up operations;



- 29 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 2
(viii)  inspect the cocoa and coffee plantings periodicalLy and advise
on further actions to be taken;
(ix) assist in the selection of suitabLe candidates for overseas
training under the project and make arrangements at suitable
overseas institutions for training; a.d
(x) advise on and prepare suitable locally-based training programs
for Subproject staff and participating farmers.
2.   Coconut Specialist
The consultant will be engaged for a period of 36 man-months. His
main function will be to advise and assist DAFF in the impLementation of a
hybrid coconut planting program by private farmers in connection with which
his duties and activities may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
(i) advise on the maincenance of the coconut seed garden at Olomanu
for produccion of hybrid coconut seed nuts;
(ii) advise on the selection of suitable areas for establishment of
nurseries for raising hybrid coconut seedlings;
(iii) advise on areas suitable for planting of hybrid coconut
seedlings;
(iv) prepare packages of practices for coconut development including
preparation of field, fertilization of seedlings, spacing, time
of planting, cultural operations, disease and pest control,
etc.;
(v) train coconut officers, field assistants, and field extension
officers on the cultivation technique of hybrid coconut;
(vi) advise on the selection of suitabLe farmers and availability of
requisite credit and inputs;
(vii) advise on the distribution of hybrid coconut seedlings to
selected farmers through the coconut development team;
(viii) organize visits by the coconut development team to selected
farmers at regular intervals to demons_rate planting and
follow-up operations;
fix) inspect the hybrid coconut plantings periodically and advise on
further action to be taken;
(x) assist in the selection of suitable candidates for overseas
training under the project and make arrangements at suitable
overseas institutions for training; and



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
(xi)  advise on and prepare suitable locally based training programs
for Subproject staff and participating farmers.
3.   Crop Diversification Agronomist
The consultant will be engaged for 18 man-months which will be
utilized during periodic visits to Western Samoa during the five years of
Subproject implementation. His main responsibility will be to assist DAFF to
identify the potential for cultivation of new crops (which could include
cloves, pepper, spices, rubber, oil palm, fruit crops, macademia nuts, etc.)
and to assist in the establishment or these crops on a pilot scale.  In
connection with these objectives, his duties and activities may include but
not necessarily be limited to the following:
(i) review the potential and identify specific crops for introduction
and estabLishment in Western Samoa;
(ii) identify sources of suitabLe planting material and assist in its
procurement, if necessary, visiting the countries supplying rhe
material;
(iii) advise and assist in the establishment and maintenance of pilot
project scale plantings of the introduced crops;
(iv) assist in the evaluation of the introduced crops and advise on
future requirements for research and potential for com ercial
sale production;
Cv) assist in the selection of suitable candidates for local and
overseas training under the Subproject and make arrangements at
suitable iastitutions for training; and
(vi)  during the course of implementation, make periodic reports to be
submitted to the Government, the Bank and the UNDP Residenc
Representative in Apia.



WESTERN SAMOA                                                                                 ANNEX V
MULTIPROJECT
Implhmentatlon Schedule
JI F MIMA|[MI J I J JAI SO |ON |DI J |IF JIM|AIMIJ A SON D _ IF IA M  JIJ JAI SCNI  J   M  IMA|  J J |A| |ON|  JI M | J  A JI5 DC|  J I                IJ||||||
INSTIIUflN/CPWT SPICLALISr
- Alisaal ol teso Crop Suttprpotl
CMtL ENGGINEER/DESIG'N
- Anti in ARpraisar ol SucpogeIis/Devsew
- ConsCmitcic     Dc ufifr t s
- Constroct NegotK* I103rORseon
Surralbtponef whSrjPrCrt
(fiendrEalqualnhle &f OttcxOuri rpofs
CROPQAZIJFICAT)CN AGRNODIN &AWA
K' CML WENGINES CONSERIJCTICiNMAGNEN
F-rSmialllfjtnc crie Subproj ect'
- Ruracl cwltad    Isucrcicr s tMs
- Cconiuas, Porta Subqogel
CPL)P ONJIMFICAtICIN CONIPONeP41 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Vbr Bfl3OA



WESTERN SAMOA
F I olup                                                        Val p.....   J                                                                                     PAVED ROADS
a g ^9&u   /   Olo  g   \                                                                             WIMPROVED ROADS
PLANTATION ROADS
fi \ \ UNIMPROVED ROADS
.@lQ      \. FERRY
EL EVA rLr3s^rtoN A                                                                                                 AIRPORT
\  5   A   V   A  I  I                \vv   \fa                                                             --    RIVERS
108 <                                                   _  . _  INTERNATiONAL SOUNDARIES                     1304-
-13040r                                                                                          ul
saiu lalala                                                                   SOUTH   PACIfIC   OCEAN
tAIl               T^lWllAl        @o*+*,                               MF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1   FoloulI
APOtl,A ISLAND       Mulllanu;i
MA N OO ISLAND
112040Y                                         172020V                                            VaiPAPA   LI.D            TMaa.oay,   MUuapu               oilh F,lh
ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ITnumalal8trf g/o
;   JAPAH  S n Ftanea  |.                              FlllS;;S.lllWO@, A.           ntv rlOH M^    ELEVAN    £a S°              OJlNAALOA 6tAY
.:JAPAN                                                                                                                                T.        U   P O   L
CHINiA                                                                                                                                                                                                        10
NORrTHPACIFICOCEAN        HAWAI                          |14OWr
XH.lcluluI                                                                                                           -C
;' PHIIPPES                                                                                                                                                                               Cap. T|pagiC
! PAPOJANIWOUINEA          J/lSOUrH   PAC/F/C  OCEAN
IND ONESIA   , ,                       /                                             Sul
WESTERN SAMOA  Paso Pas                                                                                                                 0                      10
FIJI   ,1           TAHITI                     kw  alon                                                                                       U 4  I   Z    16       
~~~~~~~                      -~~~~~~~W&  tb-d..,                                                                      4    U12         I
AUSTRALIA                        T0HGA                                     oKaI OM                                                                                                                             D
n                            .
I    t., -      *~      .IP' ;      . R      SOTrH PACIFICOCEAN                      aw.n NW                                                                                  K*miE*oJ
skis  INEWZEALANO                                                                            l12°0a'                                          1l?4W






