F ~CREDIT NUMBER 1657 WSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Multiproject Credit)
be,ween
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1657 WSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         LLtd4i                  , 1986, between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAM6A (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibiliLy and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has obtained from the Asian Development
Bank (the ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special Funds
resources in various currencies equivalent to four million one
hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,140,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreemeont dated December 9, 1985 (the ADB Loan Agree-
ment) entered into between the Borrower and the ADB;
(C) the Borrower has aio obtained from the ADB a technical
assistance grant (the TA Grant) up to the equivalent of two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
dated December 9, 1985 (the ADB Technical Assistance Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower and the ADB;
(D) the Borrower has applied to the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (UNDP) for a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) for
the purposes of the Project;
(E) the ADB and the Association intend to enter into an
agreement, a copy of which agreement will be furnished to the
Borrower (the Administration Letter), making arrangements for the
ADB to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the
financing to be provided severally by the ADB and the Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in con-
nection with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the followimg mean-
ings:
(a) "Project Executing Agency" means the Treasury Depart-
ment of the Borrower, which is responsible for the carrying out
of the Project;
(b) "DAFF" means the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Forestry of the Borrower;
(c) "DPW" means the Department of Public Works of the
Borrower;
(d) "DED" means the Department of Economic Development of
the Borrower;
(e) "DMS" means the Marine Division of the Ministry of
Transport of the Borrower;
(f) "Implementing Agency" means DAFF, DED, DPW and DMS for
Parts A, B, C (1) and C (2), respectively of the Project, or such
other agency agreed by the Borrower and the Association, which
agencies of the Borrower shall each be responsible for the imple-
mentation of their respective parts of the Project under the
overall supervision and coordination of the Project Executing
Agency;
(g) "Sub-project" means a specific sub-project included, or
proposed to be included, in the Project, for financing out of the
proceeds of the ADB Loan and/or the Credit; and
(h) "Project facilities" means the facilities to be pro-
vided or constructed under the Project.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account Ln accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions specified by the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay tc, the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿J1
-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to ihe Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges snall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
1 and August I commencing February 1, 1996, and ending August 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on August 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall carry ovt or cause to be carried out all of the
obligations set forth in Schedule 5 to the ADB Loan Agreement.
References to the ADB in such Schedule shall be read for the
purpose of this Agreement to be references to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works and of consultants
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedules 3 and 4, respectively, to the ADB Loan Agreement,
provided always that suppliers and contractors in countries in


﻿respect of which withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made
pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General Conditions shall be eli-
gible to compete in providing such goods, works and consultants
services. References to the "Bank" and the "Loan" in such Sche-
dules shall be read for the purposes of this Agreement to be
references to the Association and the Credit, respectively.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Sections 3.01 (b) and
3.02, the provisions of Schedules 5 and of 3 and 4, respectively,
of the ADB Loan Agreement shall continue to remain in force and
effect as if said provisions of such Schedules were fully set
forth in such Sections, notwithstanding the termination of the
ADB Loan Agreement or the Administration Letter.
Section 3.04. The Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, delegate to the ADB under an administration letter, for
the duration of such period as may be set forth in the Adminis-
tration Letter, any of all of its functions and responsibilities
under Articles II, III and IV of this Agreement and the Borrower
shall comply with the provisions of the said Articles as if the
ADB is substituted for the Association therein. The obligation of
the Borrower to comply with said Articles II, III and IV shall
continue in force and effect notwithstanding any termination or
suspension of such delegated functions and responsibilities to
the ADB under the Administration Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-6-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:


﻿-7-
(a) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADB Loan, the TA Grant or the UNDP Grant
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prema.uring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any events specified in paragraph (a) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the ADB Loan, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Treasury Department
Government of Western Samoa
Apia, Western Samoa
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINSEC                             233 TREASURY SX
Apia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /          4t
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1) Works                      46,000           60%
(2) Goods                     118,000           100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Training                  164,000           100%
(4) Incremental staff          50,000           100%
operating costs
(5) Consultants services      474,000           100%
Part C.1 of the Project
(6) Works                   1,260,000           95%
(7) Unallocated               188,000
TOTAL             2,300,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Bor-
rower's economic base and to revitalize existing productive
projects.
The Project consists of individual Sub-projects in the
public sector, selected or to be selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
The identification, preparation, appraisal and implementa-
tion of each Sub-project shall be carried out in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and shall
be subject to review and approval by the Association. An
appraisal of each Sub-project shall be carried out by the Bor-
rower and submitted to the Association for approval.
The Sub-projects tentatively selected for inclusion in the
Project are-
Part A - Tree Crop Development Sub-project in the agriculture
sector;
Part B -  Small Industries Center Sub-project in the industrial
sector; and
Part C -  in the infrastructure sector:
1.   Rural Roads Upgrading Sub-project; and
2.   Container Park Upgrading Sub-project.
By   agreement  between   the  Borrower   and  the   Association,
Sub-projects may be added to, or substituted for, these above
tentative Sub-projects provided that the required financing from
the Association and the ADB for the Project does not exceed the
amount of the Credit and -the ADB Loan.
The appraisal reports for all the Sub-projects will be sub-
mitted to the Association in sufficient time to allow for
approval by the Association and completion of the Sub-projects
prior to the expected completion date of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            clLL day of a
FOR SECRETARY


