E-282
VOL. 2
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN
Ministry of Communications
Division of Roads
Environmental Assessment
Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road
Jimba Consultancy
July 1999



a 



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
LHUNTSE - DUNGKHAR ROAD
This report was commissioned by the Division of Roads under the
World Bank Technical Assistance for the Rural Access Project
Jimba Consultancy
Wogzin Lam, above Druk Sherig Guest House
Thimphu, Bhutan
Tel.: 00975 2 325344
Fax: 00975 2 325344
P.O.Box: 955
July 1999






EA Executive Summary
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
* Project Title:               Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road
* Project Location:            Stretching  from  Gangzur -  Kurteo  Geog, Lhuntse
Dzongkhag
* Proponent:                   Lhuntse Dzongkhag
* Implementing Agency:         Division of Roads (DoR), Ministry of CommUnications
* Funding Agency:              RGoB and the World Bank
* Approx. road length:         371 Km
* Major bridges:               2 with approx. spans of 45m and 1 Om
* Approx. cost of
construction by
traditional method:         Nu. 120 million or US$ 2.86 million (1 US$ = Nu. 42)
* Recommended
construction method:        Environmental friendly
2. LEGISLATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
* The environmental assessment of the proposed road project closely followed the National
Environment Commission (NEC) Guidelines, more specifically Environmental Sectoral
Guidelines, Highways and Roads, February 1999.
* Considerations of the World Bank environmental guidelines were looked into as conveyed
through the Terms of Reference, EA Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road.
* The land expropriation and compensation were based on The Land Act of Bhutan 1979,
amended in 1998 and Land Compensation Rate, 1996.
3. BASELINE CONDITIONS
Physical Environment
Kuri Chhu is the main river running through the project area joined by a number of tributaries. Kuri
Chhu is not used for irrigating the field or for drinking purposes. Kuri Chhu including other
streams is quite clean in winter while in monsoon it goes muddy. The watershed management
plan doesn't exist for the locality.
The project area falls between 1500 m to 2500 m.a.s.l. The monsoon in the project area is
relatively warm with max temperature going up to 310C. In winter the temperature drops down to
-2°C recorded in December. The max rainfall recorded in a day is about 35mm.
The rock types in the study area consist mainly of granitoid gneisses belonging to the Thimphu
Group. Within these gneissic terrain, several linear bands of meta-sedimentary rocks occur as
enclaves.
This is as per DoR feasibility studies and EA has estimated the road length at approx. 36 Km.
This may vary as investigation for the best route alternatives (in two stretches) need execution.



EA Executive Summary
Biological Environment
The project area does not fall into any of Bhutan's declared protected areas. The vegetation in
the project area can be described by three types: (i) the sub-tropical forests type, (ii) Chir pine
forests and (iii) the cool broad-leafed forests.  Rare or protected plant species are not
recordediobserved in the project area. The area acts as a rich habitat for bird species while
mammals are little found. Amongst those recorded animal species rare, endangered, or endemic
species are not observed.
Social, Economic and Cultural Conditions
The economy of the project area is characterized by the predominance of people engaged in
subsistence agriculture. The main crops are rice, potato, maize, millet, wheat and chili. Cash
income is earned through sale of chili and diary products.
All farmers seem to have a house, which is relatively of a high standard compared to the rural
population in the region. Despite education being provided free many could not attend the school
because of long walking distances The people also enjoy free medical facilities.
Fuelwood is the main energy of the people chiefly used for cooking and lighting. In a few villages
mini-hydropower projects are under construction.
The guests are always greeted with a warm welcome.
4. IMPACT FINDINGS
Physical Impact
*  Landslides could be a major threat if construction is executed in a traditional method as
average side slopes of the project area exceeds 75%.
*  There are two difficult stretches of construction that may result into a chain of negative
impacts (between takeoff point and chainage 1+350 and 12+900 - 22+450 Km) as cut
material roll down damaging soil surface and vegetation.
a  The hydrology is not expected to disturb.
* Impact on land use from road activity per se is not expected to be significant but traditional
method of tipping down spoil material can cause forest cover to turn barren triggering
landslides and leading to chain of negative impacts.
* Air and noise pollution is not considered significant. The noise pollution also during operation
phase from traffic intensity is considered insignificant as experienced in other existing feeder
roads in Bhutan.
Biological Impact
* Vegetation clearings arnd damage downhill begins from chainage 4+20QKm and more
happening from 12+900 Km as the area is densely vegetated.
*  Impacts on rare/endangered/endemic vegetation species are not foreseen.
*  It is estimated that abotut 4909 m3 of fuelwood, 414 m3 of chirpirie logs and 2790 m3 of
hardwood logs will be harvested from the corridor clearing as a result of construction.
*  The habitat of other bird species can have some negative impacts, as broad-leafed forests
are their main habitat.
*  Livestock, an important livelihood of the locals can have some impacts to its natural pasture
as a result of construction activity.
ii



EA Executive Summary
Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts
*  Estimated that about 5 permanent houses may need resettlement.
*  8 temporary houses (huts) can be directly effected.
*  About 18 electric transmission poles needs relocation at Gangzur and Thimyul.
*  Irrigation channels at 7 drawing points can get effected as road alignment passes through.
*  At the road takeoff point (Priority II) air and noise impact can effect about 20 shopkeepers
and the hospital compound.
*  The private land that may need expropriation permanently for a corridor are 12.60 acre of
Tseri (shifting cultivation), 4.52 acre of Chuzhing (irrigated paddy land), 15.72 acre of
Kamzhing (dry cultivated land), and 8.19 acre of Tsamdo (natural pasture).
*  Orange orchard of about 2 acre can get partially impacted.
*  About 11 acre of Chuzhing may have to temporarily be expropriated as it may be subjected to
disturbance as a result of construction.
*  If irrigation channels are not properly attended during construction there is likelihood of about
40 acre of Chuzhing being cut of water supply (places identified are at Gangzur, Lingabey, &
Tabi, Dungkhar).
*  Impact on the local culture is not anticipated by the presence of workforce, as their stay is
temporary.
*  The alignment may encounter 10 different types of religious monuments such as Chorten,
Chukor Mani, and Mani Dangrim. These monuments can be protected if construction is
carefully executed.
*  The negative impacts concerning health is that foreign diseases may be transferred to the
locals and their existing medical facilities may get impacted. However, the positive impacts
resulting out of the project would be considerable as further services can pour in easily and
ailing people can reach better medical setups in shorter time.
*  On education, the project can have much positive impacts as walking distance to schools are
shortened. The enrollment rate is also anticipated to increase as told by District Education
Officer, as a result -illiteracy will decrease. Further, the proposals of establishing schools in
remote places will become realistic.
*  Concerning fuelwood, the Gangzur people will be heavily effected if workforces are allowed
to collect freely as the village is already in fuelwood dilemma. Rest of the villages may not
feel the impacts with fuelwood immediately, as it is much available.
*  With the economy there are many opportunities that the project can benefit the region as
farm products can easily get exported which is presently being constrained due to lack of
transportation. As walking distances are shortened people will have more time to spend in the
farm and on other cash income activities. The exploration of other natural resources can be
researched which can improve the regional economy.
5. PUBLIC CONSULTATION
Consultations were had with several stakeholders' viz. central government agencies, local
governments, NGOs, and project area people. In the project area consultation was done with 143
HH and included villages: Gangzur, Kilung, Nimshong, Lingabey, Rotpa, Tshrima, Shawa,
Zhamling, Khoachung, Tabi and Dungkhar. The outcome of the consultation was that people
were very supportive and positive of the project. They were willing to help the project
implemented successfully by extending labor support & even compromising with loss of their
agricultural land and other properties.
iii



EA Executive Summary
6. MITIGATION MEASURES
* Alignment alternatives are proposed at two stretches, one at the takeoff point and between
12+900 - 22+450 Km.
* The horizontal alignment should always follow natural contours unless otherwise necessary.
* Attempts should be made to reduce the cut material as much as possible.
* In a side slope of less than 70% it is proposed to use 'balance cut and fill' method.
* Wherever appropriate move the road centerline lm or 2m away towards the valley side by
constructing a masonry wall and reduce cut material.
* Log barriers can be used to retain spoil rolling down.
* Excavators of appropriate sizes (suitable for Bhutan terrain conditions) are recommended for
construction.
* Blasting should adopt controlled methods (not overcharging) and never hole by hole
detonation. A proper way to blast is through benches by detonating a series of holes at a time
and the next series after few seconds later. Blasting should start from the crown of the rock
face and gradually downward.
* V-shaped drains of lmxO.50m are recommended for earth and 0.50mxO.30m for the rock
section. It is recommended that minimum size of humepipe should be of 60cm. At least 10
culverts are recommended for 1km of road. All water collected should be discharged in to a
natural gully. In marshy or slide prone areas catch water drains should be provided to tap the
excess water.
* To upkeep the landscape and environmental aesthetics cut material should be prevented
from rolling down as much possible. All landslides and- exposed surfaces should apply
bioengineering measures.
e The finished side slope of the road should be 0.1:1 (H:V) for hard rock, 0.3:1 for ordinary
rock, 0.5:1 for hard soil, 1:1 for ordinary soil.
* The key stakeholders' viz. FSD, GSoB, MHoE, Lhuntse Dzongkhag, and the local people
should be consulted and coordinated for upright project implementation.
* The impacts on existing infrastructures can be eliminated/reduce if public coordination is
done and construction carried out as suggested by EA.
* Work camp should be carefully sited: away from local people settlement and from drinking
water sources. The wastes including oil and grease generated from the camps should be
collected properly and disposed off to the safe places. Sanitary facilities should be provided
to all campsites.
* To implement road construction in an environmental friendly way the DoR engineers need to
get training, some foreign and some in country under project TA component.
* Land compensation should follow the Land Compensation Rate, 1996 issued by Ministry of
Home Affairs. Lhuntse Dzongkhag and Project Unit, DoR should assess the actual land
expropriation. Temporary land expropriation should be done depending upon the quantity of
damage during the construction phase.
* Should houses be impacted the compensation should be as specified in the Land
Compensation Rates 1996 page no. 8 clause no. 3(b).
* Petty construction works of the project, the priority should be given to Lhuntse Dzongkhag
contractors and locals.
Iv



EA Executive Summary
* The workforces should be prepared with their own fuelwood at least between stretch 0+000 -
4+900 km. Fuelwood extraction of workforce should be limited to road corridor clearings.
* Impart labors on wildlife poaching awareness and monitor poaching.
7. MONITORING PLAN
The monitoring is segregated into two:
* Construction phase monitoring
* Operation and maintenance phase monitoring
Construction phase monitoring takes into three different forms:
* Routine monitoring
* Periodic monitoring
* Evaluations (phase-wise)
Operation phase monitoring can take into two forms:
* Routine monitoring
* Periodic monitoring
8. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusion
* Overall the proposed project does not foresee negative impacts of significance on the
physical, biological and social environment.
* Ample positive impacts are predicted from the project to the region particularly to the quality
of life improvement through education, better medical facilities, direct cash income, and
accessibility to foreign construction and cooking resources.
* There are opportunities to mitigate whatever marginal negative impacts assessed which is a
good indication of advancing the project implementation.
Recommendations
* The project formulation should incorporate the findings and recommendations of EA and
must include the EMP in the contract document as a binding clause.
* Due to accessibility it is suitable to engage two construction parties at a time. DOR can take
take-up part construction to experience the cost of road construction engaging excavators.
* Road takeoff alternative decision needs DOR to have close coordination with Division of
Health.
* DOP have to be informed and coordinated with regard to reiocation of some of the existing
electric transmission poles intersecting with road alignment.
* FSD should be coordinated with hauling of logs obtained from road corridor clearing.
* Detailed slope stability study is required by geo-technical engineer between Yuwa and
Zhamling (12+900 - 22+450km) and before reaching road terminal point (Dungkhar
Nagtsang) to consider EA recommended alignment alternatives
*  design the road along the natura! contours as the traffic intensity is low;
v



I



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATION
Ara                     Local brewed drink
BHU                     Basic Health Units
Chhu                    River
Chorten                 Religious Monument
Chukor Mani             Religious Monument
Chuzhing                Irrigated/Wetland
DE                      District Engineer
DoR                     Division of Roads
Dzongkhag               District
EA                      Environmental Assessment
ECP                     Environmental Codes of Practice
EFCM                    Environmental Friendly Construction Method
FDC                     Forestry Development Corporation
FSD                     Forestry Services Division
Geog                    Block
GSoB                    Geological Survey of Bhutan
Gup                     Head of Block
GYT                     Geog Yargye Tshogchung
H:V                     Horizontal: Vertical
HH                      Household
IUCN                    International Union for Conservation of Nature
Kamzhing                Dryland
La                      Mountain
Mangiapp                Village headman (appointed by Gup)
Mani Dangrim            Religious Monument
MoA                     Ministry of Agriculture
MoHE                    Ministry of Health and Education
NEC                     National Environment Commission
NECS                    National Environment Commission Secretariat
NGO                     Non-Governmental Organization
Pangzhing               Fallow land
PIS                     Pre Investigation Survey
PU                      Project Unit
RCC                     Reinforced Cement Concrete
RGoB                    Royal Government of Bhutan
SE                      Superintending Engineer
Sokzhing                Protected trees
TA                      Technical Assistance
Tsamdo                  Natural Pastureland
Tseri                   Slash and Burn Agriculture
Tshogpa                 Village Representative (appointed by Gup)
vi






TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                                                                            i
Acronyms and Abbreviations
I     INTRODUCTION, METHODOLOGY AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................... 1-1
1.1   GENERAL BACKGROUND ............................................................ I-
1.2   PROJECT RATIONALE ............................................................ .1-1
1.3  OBJECTIVES ............................................................ 1-2
1.4   SCOPE OF WORK AND LIMITATION ...........................................................                            1-2
1. 4.1.   Scope of Work ........................................................... 1-2
1.4.2.   Study Limitations ...........................................................                                1-2
1.5   STUDY METHODS ........................................................... .                                        1-3
1.6   PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................................                                   1-4
1.6.1.  Major Project Data .................................                                                          1-4
1.6.2.   Project Location.                                                                     ................................. 1-4
1.6.3.   Summary of Topography, Geology, Land Use .................................                                   1-4
1.6.4.  Technical Design ..................7...........   1-7
1.6.5.   Construction Accessories and Activities ............................ 1-8
1.6.6.  Resource Demands ............................                                                                 1-9
1.6.7.  Construction Plan ............................ 1-9
2  ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES, LEGISLATION AND GUIDELINES                                                      . . 2-
2.1 BHUTAN 'S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY .2-1
2.2 LEGAL FRAMEWORK .2-2
23 ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK .2-2
2.4 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EA) GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS .2-2
2.5 LAND ACQUISITION. COMPENSATION AND REHABILITATION .2-3
3  BASELINE CONDITIONS OF THE PROJECT AREA    .                                                 .3-1
3.1 PHYSICAL CONDITIONS .......................................:          .                                               3-1
3.1.1. Watershed Conditions .3-1
3.1.2. Climatic Conditions .3-1
3.1.3.   Geologya and Soil                                                                                             3-1
3.2 BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT                              ..3-3
3.2.1. Land Use andAgricultural Practices .                                                                            3-3
3.2.2. Vegetation and Forestry .3-5
3.2.3.    Wildlife.3-7
3.3 SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND CULTURAL CONDITIONS                             ..3-7
vii



3.3.1.  Gender in the Project Area ...........................................................  '  3-7
3.3.2.  Socio-Economic Baseline, Beneficiary Geogs (Kurteo and Gangzur) .3-7
4 ASSESSMENT OF IMPACTS                       ..4-1
4.1  CHAINAGE 0+000 -1+350 KM (TAKEOFF PRIORITY Il) (0 TO GANGZUR)            .    .    .    4-1
4.1.1. Physical Impact .4-1
4.1. 2. Biological Impact.4-2
4.1.3.  Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts.                                   4-2
4.2 1+350- 4+200 KM (GANGZUR TO CHUNEYGANG CHHU) .4-3
4.2.1. Physical Impact .4-3
4.2.2. Biological Impact.4-3
4.2.3.  Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts .4-4
4.3 4T200 - 12-900 KM (CHUNEYGANG CHHU TO YUWA)               .      .       .4-5
4. 3.1. Physical Impact.4-S
4.3. 2. Biological Impact .4-5
4.3.3.  Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impact .4-6
4.4 12+900 - 22+450 KM (YUWA TO ZHAMLING)                .        .       .4-7
4[.4.1. Physical Impact.4-7
4.4.2. Biological Impact .4-8
4.4.3.  Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts .4-8
4.5 22+450 - 37+000 KM (ZFIAMLING - DUNGKHAR)              .       .       .4-9
4.5.1. Physical Impact .4-9
4.5.2.  Biological impacts                                                                4-11
4. 5. 3.  Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impact .4-11
4.6  GENERAL SOCIAL, ECONOMY AND CULTURAL IMPACT .      .       .4.12...................................................... 4-12
4. 6.1. Health Facilities .4-12
4.6.2. - Education Facilities .4-12
4.6.3.  Economic.:4-12
4.6.4.  Culture ................. .....                      : ..................  ........... 4-13
46.5.  Religious Monuments .................... ......................................................................................................  .  4-13
4.7 INSTITUTIONAL CAPABILITY ..                                      .                      4-13
4.8 COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES                    .          .         .4-13
4.8.1. A  lignment Alternatives .4-13
4.9 PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE                 .        .        .4-16
4.9.1. Central Government .                                                               4-16
4.9.2.  Local Government (Dzongkhag) .......................  .                           4-16
4.9.3. Projectf Affected People .4-17
4.9.4.  Non-governmental srganization ........................ :4-18
viii



4.9.5.  Disclosure of EAfindings and recommendations ........................................... 4-18
5    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)                      ........................................... 5-1
5.1  IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES ............................................. 5-1
5f.1.1.  Alignment Alternatives .................................. 5-1
5.1.2.  Construction Code and Technology ................................. .. 5-4
5.1.3.  Blasting Requirements .................................. 5-5
5.1.4.  Water Management .................................. 5-6
5.1.5.  Rikht- of Way Felled Timber Management ................................... 5-6
5.1.6.  Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics ..................................         5-6
5.1.7.  Impacts on vegetation and wildlife ..................................             5-8
5.1.8.  Impacts on Infrastructure and Support Services ..................................   5-8
5.1.9.  Work Camp, Health and Sanitation .................................. 5-8
5.1.10. Occupational Health and Safety .                                                   5-9
5.1.11. Strengthening of Institutional Capability .                       f                -9
5. 1.12. Social, Economic and cultural .                                                   5-9
5.1.13. Cost Estimates .                                                                  5-11
5.1.14. Operation and Maintenance Code .                                                  5-12
5.2 IMPACT MONITORING PLAN ..                                        .                      5-12
5.2.1. Construction Period Monitoring .                                                  5-12
5.2.2. Operation Phase Monitoring .5-22
5.3 CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS                   .         .        .5-23
Annex:
I.   Bibliography.
2. Terms of Reference
3. Public Consultation
4. Biological Assessment
5. Geological Assessment
6. Feasibility Report, Lhuntse - Dungkhar road
7. EA Team Members
8. Protected Areas of Bhutan
ix






EA Final Report
1 INTRODUCTION, METHODOLOGY AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1 GENERAL BACKGROUND
The Kingdom of Bhutan covers an area of 46,500 km2, roughly measuring 150 km north to south and 300
km east to west, and is bordered by the Tibetan plateau in the north and the Indian plain in the south. The
terrain is amongst the most rugged and mountainous in the world; most of the country includes part of the
Himalayan range. The V-shaped valleys formed by rivers and streams, between the high mountain ranges
align the north and south, drain the catchments from the high altitudes in the north to the plains in the
south. The altitude declines from approximately 7500 m to 200 m above sea level.
The climate varies due to the altitude with winter and summer as two distinct seasons. The climate and
soil type determines natural vegetation and can be zoned as: alpine tundra (above 3800 m), the cold
temperate forest (3000-3800 m), the warm temperate forest (2000-3000 m), the semi-humid subtropical
forest (700-2000m), and the humid subtropical rain forest (200-2000 m)'. Land use also correlates fairly
well with altitude. Forests occupy 72.5% of the total land area and is the dominant land cover. In
agriculture, the major land uses are Kamzhing (dry land), Chuzhing (irrigated/wetland), and Tseri (slash
and burn cultivation).
Administratively the country is divided into 20 Dzongkhags (districts), and the Dzongkhags are further
subdivided into 202 geogs. The population of Bhutan is estimated to be 600,000 and is one of the least
populated countries in the South Asia. The current population growth is 3.1%. The average household size
is estimated at 5.6. About 85% of the population live in rural areas.
1.2 PROJECT RATIONALE
Since 1959 Bhutan has constructed some 3,3375.65 km of motorable roads of which 2,000 km are black
topped, 1I,100 km with base course only and rest are dirt roads2. The lack of an elaborate road network is a
major constraint for the socio-economic development through out the Kingdom of Bhutan.
The district highway in Lhuntse measures some 65 km following closely the drainage of Kuri Chhu
touching very few settlement areas. The only feeder/rural roads in the district measuring about 10 km
connects Tangmachu, one of the important settlement areas contributing significantly towards socio-
economic development. Considering the importance of the motor road network in the district the Royal
Government of Bhutan (RGoB) considered the construction of Lhuntse-Dungkhar road (approx. 37 km) in
the Eighth Five Year Plan as needs had been identified and proposed by the Geog Yargye Tshogchung
(Block Development Committee) and the Dzongkhag Yargye Tshogchung (District Development
Committee). Equally important to the road network development is the improvement of the existing
district highway particularly in Rotpashong, a nightmare landslide spot during monsoon often cutting off
traffic for months.
Understanding the importance of roads for the improvement of rural living conditions the World Bank has
expressed its interest to finance the roads under the Rural Access Project3. However, before a decision is
Atlas of Bhutan, Ministry of Agriculture, Thimphu, Bhutan. 1997.
2 Division of Roads, Ministry of Communication, Thimphu, Bhutan, 1999.
July 1999                                 1-1



EA Final Report
reached on the modality of the project implementation it is the policy of the RGoB and the World Bank to
have a study conducted apprising them of the environmental implications of the proposed project.
1.3 OBJECTIVES
The main purpose of environmental assessment (EA) is to reveal positive and negative environmental
consequences to the decision-m,akers and other interest groups, and to provide environmental information
that makes it possible to design, construct and operate the road in an environmentally friendly manner.
The objectives can be summarized as below:
i.   It assists the proponent in planning the project better for instance, the impacts such as
project impairing the existing infrastructures in the area can result in a lot of complications
and confrontations with the users of the infrastructure during the implementation period
often impinging the work progress and provoking other complications. If the impacts are
identified earlier before the project is initiated and key stakeholders are consulted and then
the mitigation plan put into place future problems can be avoided.
ii.  It enables the decision-makers to make informed, reasoned choices by making the
information available about the pros and cons of the project; and
iii. It helps the people to better understand the full ramifications of the project. For instance,
EA can make people understand the importance of the implementation of the project; the
coordination between locals and the project staff for achieving the project target; the
optimal use of resources available locally is made use of, and negative impacts identified so
solutions can be suggested.
1.4 SCOPE OF WORK AND LIMITATION
1.4.1. Scope of Work
The environmental assessment includes the following:
*  Collect and review environmental baseline information relevant to the project characteristics;
* Assess significant environmental impacts;
* Suggest best route alternatives suitable economically, environmentally, and socially;
* Propose mitigation measures against significant negative impacts;
* Propose monitoring actions to ensure the implementation of suggested mitigation measures.
1.4.2. Study Limitations
To quantify the assessments precisely was not possible as best route alternatives are yet to be identified
before the final decision on alignment is reached. Efforts have been paid to put assessments in quantitative
terms however, it would be advisable to use them as indicators. For instance: how much acreage of
Kamzhing will be expropriated for road has to be assessed at a iater stage once the alignment has been
World Bank, Project Identification Mission, Aide Memoire, January 1999.
July 1999                                   1-2



EA Final Report
finalized and compensated accordingly. Further, if EA has to quantify its impacts precisely there is a need
to involve EA at an early stage of the project cycle as early as the route feasibility study is carried out by
the Division of Roads (DoR). More detail of its involvement and what benefits can be accrued is discussed
in Chapter 5.
The study is covered from takeoff points, nearby Lhuntse Dzong up to the endpoint of Dungkhar
involving about 10 day intensive field assessments. Emphasis has been placed on suggesting best route
alternatives as a means to reduce negative impacts while enhancing benefits.
1.5 STUDY METHODS
The methods employed in the EA has followed the Bhutanese Environmental Assessment Sectoral
Guidelines. Highways and Roads. February 1999 and the Terms of Reference from the DoR that
incorporated the World Bank guidelines.
The EA process is in short depicted in Figure 1.1 The first step describes the project layout with the
project components that are superimposed on the natural conditions in the project area.
Baseline information is the existing information on the relevant topics: environmental, social, and cultural.
Besides conducting field surveys, avaiiable baseline data and reports of project relevance have been
evaluated. The collected data will be compiled and analyzed upon which impact mitigation measures have
been built. Finally, a framework for a monitoring plan is suggested both for the construction and
operational phase.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
BASELINE INFORMATION
IMPACT ASSESSMENT
MITIGATION MEASURES
ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING PLAN
Figure 1.1: EA Process
July 1999                                     1-3



EA Final Report
1.6 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The technical description given below is based on the judgment of the consultants in consultation with
DoR personnel as environmental friendly construction is still at an early stage of development. It should
therefore, be noted that certain information may change at a later stage of the project cycle, depending
upon detailed field assessments and design.
1.6.1. Major Project Data
Road length: approx.                    37 km
Maximum longitudinal gradient:          + 8%
Beneficiaries:                          487 households
Major bridges:                          2 (approximately  45  m  over Kuri Chhu  and
approximately I Om over Kilung Chhu)
Approximate traditional construction, cost:  US $ 2.86 million (exchange rate US $ I = Nu 42.00)
(by bulldozer)
1.6.2. Project Location
The project is located at Lhuntse Dzongkhag, in east Bhutan. Its location by latitude is between
270 301 _ 280 OOo north and by longitude between 910 000 - 910151 east (refer map in the following
page). Lhuntse Dzongkhag is bordered by Bumthang Dzongkhag to the west, Trashi Yangtse
Dzongkhag to the east and Monger Dzongkhag to the south. It borders Tibet to the north.
The takeoff point has two possibilities and has been prioritized. The alignment if followed by priority I
follows a rough tract up to approximately 7 km constructed by the DoP to transport material for a mini
hydro project.
If priority II takeoff is chosen the new construction joins the existing rough tract after 1.35 km. The road
passes through different land uses and reaches a crossing at Yuwa (over Kuri Chhu) where a major bridge
is necessary. It crosses through the foothills of steep rocky cliffs and makes several hairpin bends to reach
Wamtangla from where it gradually falls until Zhamling.
Two alignment alternatives are proposed for the stretch between Yuwa and Zhamling that needs detailed
field assessments. From Zhamling it gradually falls and at certain points rises to reach Dungkhar. Detail
explanation on alignment alternatives is provided in the chapter Environmental Management Plan.
1.6.3. Summary of Topography, Geology, Land Use
1.6.3.1 Topography
The topography of the project area in general is relatively very steep with an average percent gradient
exceeding 75%. There are deep valleys with perennial streams and some portions are quite marshy. The
road hits major rocky cliffs which needs careful location during final alignment fixation. The construction
in certain stretches might become difficult, which could be categorized under residual impacts i.e. nothing
can be done but to go ahead. At the best EA has to look into the most appropriate alignment which DoR
needs to consider closely (refer Mitigation measures in Chapter 5).
July 1999                                  1-4



E4A Final Report
Nationa Road Ndewo                                                                     Prqect LWctin
E3 Proi Locatbn                                     4                                 and Existing Rod Nethrk
Admifreat" Bmwdaels:                                                                   Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road
N  Intemational Roidry             30          0          30         60 Kineters
Al DisIct Boundary 
July 1999                                      1-5



EA Final Report
1. 6.3.2 Geology
The study area exposes mainly granitoid gneisses belonging to the Thimphu group. Within this gneises
terrain, several linear bands of metasedimentary rocks occur as enclaves.
1.6.3.3 Land Use along the Proposed Route
Permanent Land use
The permanent land uses that will be stripped off for the road can be segregated into two:
> during construction;
> post road construction.
During Construction Phase:
*  From takeoff point I (priority 1) until change 1+350 Km the land use that will be stripped off is a dry
shrub forests.
*  From takeoff II (Priority 11) the land use that will be involved for road construction are: 2 permanent
residential Bhutanese traditional houses, 2 bamboo huts, approx. 525 m2 Kamzhing (dry land),
approximately 305 m2 Sokzhing (local protected forest), 11 electric transmission poles, approx. 300
m2 Tsamdo (pasture) and dry shrub forests.
*  1+850 km - 4+200 km: land use is basically grassy vegetation, lemon Grass (cympobogan species),
and Tsamdo about 3.7 acres, Tseri about 2.59 acres and 2 electric transmission poles.
e  4+200 km - 12+900 km: thick broad leafed forest (good for fuel wood), Tseri about 2.73 acres,
Kamzhing about 6.68 acres, Chuzhing  about 900 m2, Sokzhing about 1.4 acres, 3 electric
transmission poles, one double storey permanent house, rocky cliff and thorny shrub vegetation at
certain spots.
*  12+900 km  - 22+450 km  (Priority 1): thick broad leafed forest, screes (gathered rolled
boulders/stones) in certain spots, touches patchy chirpine forest.
12+900 km - 14+900 km (Priority 11): land use that will involve chirpine forest and steep rocky cliffs.
*  22+450 km - approximately 34+000 km (Dungkhar): can strip broad leafed vegetation about 74 acres,
3 temporary huts. Sokzhing about 1200 mi2, Kamzhing about 1.5 acres.
After Construction (for maintenance):
Two campsites can be suggested for the 37 km road, one above Gangzur and another at Zhamling.
Keeping one person every 4 km will require 10 people to maintain approximately 37 km of road with
minor problems.
The total area that will be required for one campsite with a small kitchen garden would be about 0.45
acres. Two campsites will therefore require about I acre. The proposed sites are at the moment used as
Tsamdo (pastureland).
July 1999                                   1-6



EA Final Report
Temporary Land Use
Temporary land expropriation is required for two cases:
* Setting up labor camps, workshops, etc. during construction; and
* cultivated land that may be under temporary disturbance during construction. For instance rolling
stones from the road head may prevent cultivation downhill temporarily.
Labor camp, Workshops
Labor camps and workshop setup are required and identified at 5 different places: above Gangzur, nearby
Chuneygang Chhu, little after Lingabey, at Yuwa, after Zhamling. The sites that need to be expropriated
are 2 acres of Tsamdo at Gangzur; 2 acres of Tsamdo after Zhamling and 2 acres of Kamzhing at Yuwa.
Rest campsites are in government land.
Cultivated land that may be disturbed (located below road)
During the construction period cultivation below the road may not be safe to work given the steep
geographical terrain. The possible important sites are 4'acres of Chuzhing before reaching Gangzur, 2
acres of Chuzhing before reaching Chuneygang, 5 acres below Lingabey. The former 4 acres may not be
disturbed if Priority I takeoff is chosen.
1.6.4. Technical Design
The roads in Bhutan have been categorized basically into 3 categorizes of which Lhuntse-Dungkhar road
falls under category 'C' which is gravel road. Unless otherwise stated the design standards prepared by
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, Australia for the DoR, Bhutan under the Asian Development
Bank patronage is very good which the Project can follow.
In summary category C has the following specifications:
* Formation width 5.0 m
= Pavement 3.0 m
* Shoulder width 0.5 m on each side
* Drain width 1.0 m
* Maximum gradient 10%
* Minimum curve radius 8 m
As the emphasis is on an environmentally sound road construction there is a need to consider some
additions to the road design. As rolling cut material downhill causes the vegetation, soil and other
damages to the environment, to reduce the cut material is one of the solutions. The Figure 1.2. illustrates
the construction by shifting C-line.
July 1999                                   1-7



EA Final Report
Cut volume can
be  lowered  by
Figure 1.2: Cross Section with Im shift
In a woody forest logs could be laid to prevent rolling material.
Road Drainage
From the experiences of Bhutan and elsewhere in the region durability of roads depend mostly if not all on
good drainage systems. For the proposed feeder road V-shaped drains of lmxO.5m is appropriate. For the
rocky section 0.5mxO.3m is good enough which should be achieved through a series of dynamite blasts.
In I km of road there should be at least 10 hume pipe culverts with 60 cm as the minimum size of each
hume pipe. Importance should be attached to draining the water from the cross drains to the natural gully.
Soil erosion and landslides
Civil engineering retaining structures (for instance gabion wire mesh retaining/breast walls) will be
implemented to prevent landslides. In marshy areas catch drains will be constructed to tap water and
disposing it to a natural gully. Further, a combination of civil engineering structures with bioengineering
will be sought to mitigate erosion and landslides.
1.6.5. Construction Accessories and Activities
Construction might involve at least 50 labors (including families 150 heads) and a set of construction
equipment brigades. The proponent of the project will provide safety shelters for the labors as the
standards set in this report. The waste generated from the camps will be disposed off to a safe place as
prescribed.
Safety of the workers and to the surrounding environment will be ensured by the construction responsible.
Waste generated from the machine such as oil and grease will be collected and disposed off to the proper
place.
July 1999                                   1-8



EA Final Report
1.6.6. Resource Demands
From the takeoff point until 7 km there is an extreme shortage of fuel wood resources. The people of
Gangzur during consultation have expressed this problem to EA team. The labors should therefore be
prepared with their own energy for cooking. The construction agency should be responsible. Fuel wood
beyond 7 km can be obtained from road corridor clearing.
With the health care limited in the project area the construction party should be prepared with their own
medical facilities.
1.6.7. Construction Plan
The construction method will be to reduce damages to the environment. This would mean switching over
to excavator machines from traditional bulldozer construction.
Further, in steep slopes cutting is recommended in benches/layer. Where there are no natural depressions
cut material will be transported to safer places as site condition may dictate. In rocky sections where
slopes exceed 100% to mitigate impacts (material rolling down) are almost impossible and it is suggested
to cut in benches using explosives in series rather than going single shot hole blasting.
The road can also be constructed in several phases: first a track of 2 m width and after one monsoon
extension up to 3.5 m and gradually to the design of the width. Slopes will be re-vegetated using
bioengineering preferably local species. The construction is proposed to begin by early fall 1999 and is
targeted to complete 1 0 km each year.
The suggested principal road construction equipment are listed below:
1.   Excavator (320B Cat) -2 no. (with varying bucket sizes and by type)
2.   Dump trucks - 4 no.
3.   Motor grader (small size)- I no.
4.   Small dozer - Ino.
4.   Pay loader - 2 no.
5.   Air Compressor - 2 no.
6.   Power Chainsaw - 2 no.
As project area encounters rocky cliffs at various stretches blasting could be very intensive. Controlled
blasting would be adopted. More details have been given in the impact management chapter 5.
July 1999                                  1-9



I



EA Final Report
2 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES, LEGISLATION AND GUIDELINES
2.1 BHUTAN'S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
Perched in the eastern Himalayas, Bhutan is a global bio-diversity hot spot. About 72.5% of the land is
under forest cover and 26.23% of the total land has been declared as protected area'.
Ever since embarking on its first socio-economic development planning, the RGoB's policy has been to
ensure the process of development in all its aspects be consistent with maintaining the environmental and
cultural integrity of the country. This is the guiding principle upon which Bhutan's sustainable
development strategy was based. This was further elaborated in the 1990 Paro Resolution on Environment
and Sustainable Development, which concluded with the statement: "This is the challenge of sustainable
development: to raise the material well being of all citizens and to meet their spiritual aspirations, without
impoverishing our children and grandchildren."
The Paro Resolution formed the basis for further institutional change and development in government
agencies responsible for environmental management, culminating in the formation of the National
Environment Commission (NEC) in 1992.
General government policies towards the environment are:2
1. Improving existing, and introducing new legislation, policies to ensure sustainable utilization of
natural resources;
2. Preparation of Master Plans for different sectors of the economy, e.g. forestry, power, and roads.
These plans will ensure that development is carefully planned, minimize environmental impacts, and
ensure utilization of natural resources in a sustainable way;
3. Use of economic incentives to encourage sustainable utilization;
4. Increasing involvement of community and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in planning and
implementation of environmental activities. The decentralization process will enable greater
participation of the population in developing appropriate responses to environmental problems;
5. Developing an integrated land use planning capability to provide information for sustainable
development planning in all sectors. It is also the RGoB's policy to keep the country a minimum of
60% under forest cover at all times through a network of protected areas;
6. Building on existing resources management practices, rather than adopting new control mechanisms;
and
7. Creating NEC and establishment of Bhutan Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation.
'Biodiversity Action Plan, for Bhutan, 1998.
2 NEC February 1999, Reference document.
July 1999                                  2-1



EA Final Report
The Buddhist faith plays an important role in all aspects of life, it stresses the respect for all life forms and
makes policy implementation harmonious.
2.2 LEGAL FRAMEWORK
There are strong elements of environmental legislation and administrative instruments in Bhutan. Many
basic elements of environmental legislation exist and new elements are being added taking into
consideration the most up to date international issues. The Environmental Act at present is the Forest and
Nature Conservation Act of 1995 and the Land Act of 1979 amended in 1998 stands strong.
The key acts applicable to environmental protection and development in Bhutan are:
*  Forest and Nature Conservation Act 1995
*  Mines and Minerals Management Act 1995
*  Water and Sanitation Rules, July 1995
*  Land Act of Bhutan 1979 (amended in 1998)
*  Draft Wildlife Act 1995
*  Draft Environmental Assessment Act (1997)
•  Environmental Compliance Notification No. NEC/EA/98-99/655 dated 24th February 1999
*  Draft Watershed Management Policy and Act 1990
*  Draft Regulations and Policies or Pasture Land 1998
Until the Environmental Assessment Act is formerly approved the road construction activities in Bhutan
should comply with the environmental compliance notification No. NEC/EA/98-99/655 dated 24th
February 1999 issued by the Chairman of the NEC.
2.3 ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
The National Assembly, the Royal Advisory Council, the Judiciary, the Council of Ministers and the
sectoral Ministries are organizations that play a crucial role in the governance of the Kingdom of Bhutan.
Nevertheless, at the district, block, and village level, there are established mechanisms that ensure
people's participation in the decision-making process.
Decentralization of administrative functions began in 1981 through the establishment of District
Development Committees (Dzongkhag Yargye Tshochungs) and further in 1991 with the establishment of
Block Development Committees (Geog Yargye Tshogchungs).
The key development and environmental agencies in the Bhutan are: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
Communication (DoR is responsible for the road network development), Ministry of Trade and Industry,
Planning Commission, and National Environment Commission (NEC) and Secretariat (NECS).
2.4 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EA) GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS
EA guidelines were formnerly approved by the government in February 1999 and henceforth all
development policies, programs and projects should comply with the guidelines. NEC has issued 6
sectoral environmental guidelines of which road construction in Bhutan should follow the "Highways and
Roads."
July 1999                                  2-2



EA Final Report
The draft EA Act 1997 specifies that projects should be screened through the following categories:
a.    Complex projects
b.    Impact significant, management known
c.    Impacts moderate, project repetitive
d.    Impacts moderate, management simple
All the projects falling in A, B, and C needs environmental clearance from the NEC before development
consent is permitted.
All the road projects need to conduct detailed environmental assessment and clearance issued by the NEC.
At the moment there are no environmental standards for roads in Bhutan however, the Environmental
Code of Practice (ECP) under development through the patronage of the World Bank and the Netherlands
Development Association should become standard.
2.5 LAND ACQUISITION, COMPENSATION AND REHABILITATION
The Land Act of Bhutan 1979 (amended in 1998) regulates land acquisition by the government of Bhutan.
The key principals of the Act applicable for this project are:
-  As far as possible the govemment shall give substitute land instead of cash compensation while
acquiring land.
-  Allotment of all substitute land shall be from the same Dzongkhag.
* In case a house is acquired by the government, the compensation for any category of house whether
built with RCC/bricklstone masonry or in traditional style, shall be paid on the basis of evaluation
carried out in each case by a qualified engineer appointed by a competent authority.
A committee consisting of a representative from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, DoR
and the concerned Dzongkhag does land acquisition for road construction. Land Compensation Rate, 1996
governs the compensation.
Note: The review of the World Bank guidelines are not included as IDA Pre-Appraisal Mission of 26
February 1999 from  the World Bank has found the Bhutanese environmental guidelines
comprehensive.
July 1999                                  2-3






EA Final Report
3 BASELINE CONDITIONS OF THE PROJECT AREA
3.1 PHYSICAL CONDITIONS
3.1.1. Watershed Conditions
Kuri Chhu is the main river in the project area and road alignment up to approximately 12 km closely
follow this drainage. Of the many tributaries joining Kuri Chhu the prominent ones are Rong Chhu,
Gangzur Chhu and Kilung Chhu. Mini-hydro power projects are under installation over Rong Chhu and
Gangzur Chhu. Kuri Chhu has practically no usage for locals either for irrigation or for drinking besides
wildlife and aquatic life.
The river in winter is verv clean while in monsoon it becomes very muddy. Sediment load recordings in
these river systems are non-existent. An overall watershed or sub-watershed management plan presently
does not exist.
3.1.2. Climatic Conditions
The project area falls under an altitude between 1500 m and 2500 m. The climate in the area is relatively
warm in summer. During winter the temperature falls as low as -20C recorded during December. The
maximum temperature recorded in the project area is during the month of July up to 31°C. The average
humidity for a year has been calculated at 85%. While maximum rainfall recorded in a day is 35 mm and
the rainfall total in a year is calculated at 1482 in average.
The maximum rainfall recorded in a day per month is illustrated in Figure 3.1, Temperature maximum
and minimum recorded during 24 hours by the month is depicted in Figure 3.2.
Fig,32k:enaMmcahn    i2shmrbr           Fgure 3.1 Mx ra,fa per day recorded by MDnth (19d)
S4                                           40                      _____--
F 2I   w      5    _    b    2    2        _ 25          t    I
I 2D                                       20     tS§               
10             13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
10    41iox 
-lo
ip                                        0
*hxthlwd             '                   Recrded Mnt
Source: Meteorology Unit, Division of Power, Thimphu 1999
3.1.3. Geology and Soil
The area falls in the northern extension of the Lesser Himalayas. A prominent N-S trend high hill range
which extends northward to join E-W trend ranges of the Greater Himalayas and forms a conspicuous
physiography feature. The crest line of these hills range from south to north and are marked by Phoming
La (3914m), Dong La (3971m) and Kam La (3458m).
July 1999                                3-1



EA4 Final Report
The area is dissected by the numerous streams where Kuri Chhu forms the main drainage system. It
originates from Kula Kangri Glacier in the Tibetan region and flows in the south-easterly direction up to
Nye and changes its course to south-easterly till it reaches Lhuntse Dzong.
Further downstream the Kuri Chhu flows in a southerly direction. The main tributaries of the Kuri Chhu
are Tangkhar Chhu, Chuneygang Chhu, Kilung Chhu, Rong Chhu, Nye and Dungkhar Chhu.
The rock types in the study area consist mainly of granitoid gneisses belonging to the Thimphu Group.
Within this gneissic terrain, several linear bands of meta-sedimentary rocks occur as enclaves. The linear
bands of metasedimentary rocks of variable dimensions are found around Kilung, Thimyul and south of
Dungkhar. The 'lithopackage includes garnet mica schist, micaceous quartzite (at places hematitic),
graphitic mica schist, marble and calc-silicate gneiss. The contact of the Naspe Formation with mica
silliminate gneiss of the Surey Formation is concealed in most of the places.
The detailed lithological variations found in the area are described as follows:
1. Feldspathised garnet mica schist
Around Kilung, Khoatangla and Thimyul, several lenticular bands of graphitic schist occurs within
feldspathised mica schist. It is highly fractured and fragmented.
2. Marble
Coarsely crystalline marble of variable dimensions are exposed near Thimyul and south of Dungkhar. The
marble is intimately associated with calc-silicate gneiss and calc granulite in which amphibole rich bands
are very common.
3. Micaceous Quartzite
Around Thimyul and SE of Kilung micaceous quartzite is hematitic with limonite encrustation and inter
banded with graphitic schist and marble. The rock in these areas is ferrugineous. But the same rock found
in the south of Dungkhar contains elliptical augen like patches of micaceous material in the highly
recrystallised quartzitic matrix. It is found highly fractured and sheared where quarry is presently being
operated causing landslides.
4. Surey Formation
This formation covers most of the area and lies above the Jaishidanda formation. It is represented by mica
granitoid gneiss with xenoliths of high grade mica schist are often traversed by later pegmatite and quartz
veins.
5. Flaggy Quartzite
Greyish white, fine grained, thinly bedded, hard and compact. It is noticed from 3+650km to 4+200km.
Primary structures such as color bedding and ripple marks are clearly visible oni the outcrop. The rock
belongs to Shumar formation and it appears to have been thrusted into the Surey formation due to the
neamess of Jaishidanda thrust.
6. Intrusives
Small scale intrusion of tourmaline pegmatite, granite and quartz veins as thin sills and dykes occur in all
the litho-package.
July 1999                                 3-2



EA Final Report
7. Soil types
Thin film of top soil brownish colored is underlined by grayish brown sand with some silt/clay. Pockets
of deep red colored silt/clay is observed in a few places. These soils are mixed with clastics of gneiss,
marble, quartzites , schists etc. The size of the clastic ranges from boulders to gravels and are usually
angular in shape.
3.2 BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
3.2.1. Land Use and Agricultural Practices
3.2.].] Lhuntse Dzongkhag
General
As like other parts of Bhutan land use in Lhuntse also correlates fairly well with the altitude. The land area
of the Dzongkhag is approximately 2887.5 k2 of which 78% is dominated by forest cover. The other
land use details are provided in the Table 3.1.
TABLE 3.1: LHUNTSE DZONGKHAG LAND USE DETAILS AS PER LAND USE WORKING MAP A SCALE 1:
50,000
Land use                                      Area (ha)            Percent of total area
1. Agricultural land
Chuzhing (wetlandAigated)                     2079                 0.3
Kamzhing (dryland)                            3477                 0.5      4%
Tseri                                         3288                 26
Mixed arable land                             19008                48
Total arable land                                                  100
2. Forest
Conifer                                       45982                26
Chirpine                                      8687                 5         60%
Broad leafed mixed with conifer               119828               69
Total forest                                                       100
3. Scrub forest                               42849                           15%
4. Pasture (natural)                          9451                            3%
5. Settlements                                35                              1%
6. Others that includes snow/glaciers, rock outcrops,  49105                  17%
land slips, water spreads, marshy areas.
Source: Land Use Planning Section, MOA, 1999
July 1999                                    3-3



E:A Final Report
TABLE 3.2: AGRICULTURAL DATA FOR LHUNTSE DZONGKHAG
Crop                         Area {acre)   Production (M tons)
Rice                         5285         4662
Potato                       5285         387
Wheat                        764          331
Buckwheat                   279           85
Mustard                      178          41
Barley                      91            34
Maize                       4611          2586
Vegetables                   770           1232
Millet                      479           173
Legumes                     312           126
Chili                        94           54
Ginger                      2             5
Orange                      30            99
Apple                        33           40
Source: Land use Planning Section. MOA, 1999
3.2.1.2 Land Use of Kurteo and Gangzur Geog (road beneficiaries)
Kurteo Geog has a land area of 990.9 km2 of which forest is the dominating land use with 66% of the total
area covered. Agricultural land is only 2% while the rest is natural pasture, snow/glaciers, water spreads,
landslides and etc. Details of the land use are provided in Table 3.3.
Gangzur Geog has a total land area of 535.5 km2 of which 78% of the land area is under forest cover. The
arable land is only 4% and the rest is all rock outcrops, snow glaciers, land slips etc.
TABLE 3.3: KURTEO GEOG LAND USE DETAILS AS PER LAND USE MAP
Land use                      Area (Ha)                      Percentage of Total area
1. Agricultural land -
Chuzhing                      13
Kamzhing                      442                                  2%
Tseri                         1398
Mixed total arable land       1854
2. Forest land
Conifer                       12978
Mixed forest                  10603                                 38%
Broad leafed forest           12550
Broadleaf. mixed with conifers  1659
July 1999                                    3-4



EA Final Report
Scrub forest                    27296                           28%
Pasture (natural)              4268                            4%
Others: snow/glaciers, rock    27878                            28%
outcrops, land slips, water
spreads, marshy area.
Source: Land Use Planning Section, MOA, 1999
TABLE 3.4: LAND USE FOR GANGZUR AS PER LAND USE WORKING MAP
Land use                       Area (acre)                     Percentage of total area
1. Agrcultural land
Chuzhing                       84                                     4%
Kamzhing                       497
Tseri                          489                                  1
Mixed cultivation              1173
2. Forest land
Conifer (Chirpine and Fir)     9954
Mixed forest                   23945                                 78%
Broad leafed forest            2355
3. Scrub forest                4488                                   8%
4. Pasture natural              1366                                  3%
5. Settlement                   16
6. Others: Snow/glaciers, water    3570                               7%
spreads, marshy areas, land slips,
rock outcrops.
Source: Land Use Planing Sections, MOA, 1999
The other details of the land use is as illustrated by the following map (page 3-6).
3.2.2. Vegetation and Forestry
The vegetation in general can be divided into three main categories: (i) the sub tropical forest type, (ii)
chir pine forests and (iii) the cool broad-leafed forests.
(i)   The Sub Tropical Forest Type: This forest type is prevalent along the river Kuri Chhu, from the
riverbed upto 15-200 meters above the slope. Due to the micro-climatic effect of the slope and the
river, there are a number of species inter mixed in this forest type.
(ii)   The Chir Pine Forest: The proposed road passes through 7 km of chir pine forest. This forest
predominantly comprises of chir pine (Pinus roxburghii) trees with an average size of 20-30 cm dbh
(diameter at breast height) and 15-25 m in height. The under storey also consists of chir pine
regeneration of varying sizes and ages. The ground flora consists mainly of lemon grass
(cymbopogon flexuosus) and other shrubs of the Lyonia species, Budleja asiatica, Indigofera
heterantha etc.
July 1999                                      3-5



FA Final Report                                                                        __________________________
Land Use Along
Lhunfte - Dungkhar Road
ODIvilon @1 Rdoad
Elisdby of Commnicaton
June I Mg
Proposed Road*.
A/Proposed Priorty N
AgJrus: Mixed C&tIlvged Lwid
Forest: Broad Loaf i
ForeeL~ Broad Leaf - Mixod Cantf&
Forest: Conhfsr-CU,lr Pine I
Forest: Con.,1r - Chir PIne 2
OW¶es: WOWc Sp-do         2            0                        4   Kilometer 
July 1999                                                     3-6



EA final report
(iii) The Cool Broad-Leafed Forest: the major part of the road passes through this forest, after the
chir pine forests. It is here that the diversity of the forests is observed, with higher number of
plants species mix and wild life including the avi fauna. Found here are pure patches of mature
Alnus nepalensis, indicating landslides in the past.
Since the road alignment ascends through the forest, the species varies with the altitude. Commonly
observed species are Quercus lamellosa, Castanopsis species, Alnus nepalensis, Juglan regia, Betula
species, Schima wallichii, michelia spp., Rhododendron arboream, Mesea chisa, Aconitum spp.
For about 1-2 km the road alignment passes through a thick patch of thorny bamboo
(Chimonobambusa callosa). A detailed flora list is provided in Annex 3.
3.2.3. Wildlife
From the field observations of actual sightings, droppings and wildlife sounds, supplemented by
informnation provided by many meetings with local communities the following species are available in
the forests. Rhesus monkeys, white capped langurs, squirrels, barking deer, wild boars, bear, leopard,
jungle fowls and snakes.
About more than 30 species of avi-faua have been recorded, however no endangered species has been
observed. According to local information there are pythons and leopards in this forest. This is however
not being observed during assessment. Since both these species are protected in Schedule I of Forest
and Nature Conservation Act 1995, they are to be monitored. (See annex 3 for more detail).
3.3 SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND CULTURAL CONDITIONS
As most the local people are not exposed to modern developments their ways of doing things and
beliefs are still largely intact. It is always a practice to give a foreigner a warm welcome. In the
evening of guest arrival people come to see the visitors with a bottle of locally brewed alcohol (ara)
and spend hours entertaining them. The people are just subsistent farmers but look happy with
whatever they can afford to live on.
3.3.1. Gender in the Project Area
Unlike in neighboring countries women in the locality enjoy a relatively high status. Although local
practice varies, the predominant inheritance rules are favorable to women and women head most
households. Even in public gatherings women outnumber men (refer public consultation document in
the annex 2).
3.3.2. Socio-Econovaic Baseline, Beneficiary Geogs (Kurteo and Gangzur)
3.3.2.1  Land holdings and Crop Production
There are 190 households (HH) under Kurteo Geog and with 369 HH under Gangzur Geog benefiting
directly from the project (refer map in page 3-8). Keeping an average HH at 6 heads the population of
two geogs can be estimated to 3354. The average arable land holdings per household comes to around
1.35 acres which is small by any standard. A complete scenario of HH for Lhuntse Dzongkhag by
geog is provided in Table 3.5.
July 1999                                  3-7



EA final report
A           ~~~KLrteo |"
/ R /~~~~~~~Khomel G  S
D"_oj ^ -t soonwo
Ukao_ - omae t*                    sgur               
+                                    aJ nb Ies      , 
5  o     s   waone                                        0 ,) 
Met3ho 3eG                   (
_   d _&e_*              ,         Ts~~~~Ae nhr (3eog
Jmo It"/                                  /-                
July 1999                               3-8



EA final report
TABLE 3.5: HH SCENARIO FOR LHUNTSE DZONGKHAG BY GEOG
GEOG                     HH
Gangzur                  369
Khoma                   265
Menbi                   373
Kurteo                   190
Menjay                  212
Tshenkhar                318
Jarey                    192
Metsho                  228
Source: Lhuntse Dzongkhag, 1999
The land acreage for two geogs is given under with crop productions.
TABLE 3.6: ACTUAL LANDHOLDINGS BY TWO GEOGS
Land use                      Gangzur Geog (acre)            Kurteo Geog (acre)
Chuzhing                       319                            178
Kamzhing                       441                            355
Pangzhing (fallow land)        49                             38
Tsen                           527                            395
Tshesa (kitchen garden)        21 9acre)                      11
Sokzhing                       113                            79
Tsamdo                         1032                           589
Source: Lhuntse Dzongkhag, May 1999
TABLE 3.7: CROP PRODUCTION FOR GANGZUR AND KURTEo GEOG
Crop production                Gangzur Geog (Mtons)           Kurteo Geog (Mtons)
Rice                           272                            152
Potato                         56                             21
Wheat                          38                             52
Buckwheat                      18                             9
Mustard                        8                              9
Barley                         1                       .
Maize                          348                            227
Millet                         20                             13
Vegetables                     202                            88
Legumes                        24                             20
Chili                          30                             20
Ginger                         4
Orange                         20                           V
Apple                          2                              2
Source: Lhuntse Dzongkhag. May 1999
July 1999                                       3-9



EA final report
3.3.2.2  Land Ownership
Investigations have revealed that much of the land in Kurteo geog were owned by absentee
landlords/ladies living mostly in Thimphu. The tenant farmers hand over one half of their yield to the
owners. In some cases, the owner demand only their share of rice and the rest of the crops left for the
farmers. In Gangzur geog the absentee landlords are minimal though most of the land belongs to the
Jangchuling Monastery that are sharecropped by the farmers.
As the agricultural land for the road right-of-way in the Kurteo Geog is estimated to take only about
1.5 acre of Kamzhing the livelihood of the tenant farmers is not going to affect. The tenant farmers can
benefit from the project by involving in petty construction works.
3.3.2.3 Cottage Industries
Under the whole Lhuntse Dzongkhag there are 82 trade license holders, some are active and few
reported dormant. A total 17 licenses are for construction and the rest are for restaurants, general shops
and bars. Manufacturing does not exist besides lemon grass distillation.
At the Lhuntse-Dungkhar Road takeoff point there are 20 shop license holders of which 18 are
actively operating and 2 are closed for financial reasons. There are 3 restaurant operators where basic
food is provided and logging facilities are non-existent except at the Dzongkhag guesthouse with 3
rooms equipped with basic things.
3.3.2.4 Public Services
Lhuntse Dzongkhag has telecom facilities and a couple of Basic Health Units (BHUs) are connected
but reported not in order.
Electricity for the Dzongkhag has still a long way to go. Important houses of the Dzongkhag get
lighted from 1800 to 220° hours by a diesel generator. Two mini-hydropower projects are under
construction one at Gangzur with I IOKW and at Thimyul with 220KW, both located close to the
proposed project.
Convenient postal services are limited in and around Lhuntse Dzong. For far distances Gups (Block
Administrator) usually take care of the mail to reach to the right addresses.
To transport goods and people there is a truck service running from Monger to Lhuntse and back twice
a week. There is still an urgent need to upgrade the transportation system.
3.3.2.5 Education
There are 15 schools in the Dzongkhag of which I is a high school, 8 primary schools, and the rest
community schools. In the project area there are two primary schools located at Dungkhar and near
Lhuntse Dzong and two community schools at Nye and Zhamling. The education facilities are free and
availed even for the project work force. Table 3.8 gives a full scenario of education sector in Lhuntse
Dzongkhag.
July 1999                                  3-10



EA final report
TABLE 3.8: EDUCATION IN LHUNTSE DZONGKHAG
S.No.   School                      Geog                Total students       Teachers
Boys          Girl
1.      TangmaChu High School       Menbi        351            125          18
2.      Tangmachu Primary School    Menbi        129            142          8
3.      Lhuntse Prmary School       Gangzur      154            128          8
4.      Wambur Primary School       Tshenkhar   151             78           8
5.      Zangkhar Primary School     Jarey        171            95           7
6.      Ladrong Primary School      Jarey        93             50           4
7.      Dungkhar Primary School     Kurteo       95             61           4
8.      Khoma Primary School        Khoma        89             66           5
9.      Minjay Primary School       Minjay       77             80           4
10.     Nye Community School        Gangzur      32             22           1
11.     Zhamling Community School    Gangzur     23             15           1
12.     Tshochen Comm. School       Tshenkhar   40              22           1
13.     Autsho Com. School          Tshenkhar   65              76           4
14.     Gortshum         .          Metsho       46             34           3
15.     Kupingsa                    Tshenkhar   16              13           1
Source: Lhuntse Dzongkhag, 1999.
3.3.2.6  Extension Services
Like the other geogs the extension services are also available for Gangzur and Kurteo. The services
include forestry, animal husbandry, and agriculture. There are two extension centers both located
under Gangzur geog. The extension services are provided at free of cost.
3.3.2.7  Livestock
Livestock plays an important role in the daily life of the farmers. It's employed for cash income,
manure for the fields, and draughts for transporting and tilling the field. The Table 3.9. gives the
overall picture of livestock in the district reflecting also Kurteo and Gangzur geog, project influence.
Table 3.9: Livestock for the  _zongkhag
GEOG              HORSES       CATTLE      PIGS        SHEEP       GOST         HEN
Gano7ur           214         3858         487                     -            1458S
Kurteo            213         1334         163         -           3            910
Khoma             247         2613         39          16- _                    525
Metsho            95          2026         112         -           4            1112
Menbi             13 _,94A                 189       _                         | 972
Jarey             105         1643         5                                     59
Minj*ay           227         1676         315                                 | 704
Tshenkhar         301         1509         416                                  1657
Source: Lhuntse Dzongkhag 1999.
3.3.2.8  Irrigation
Rice is the principal crop for both the geogs. Cultivation often becomes difficult as irrigation water has
to draw from far places extending up to several kilometers. Gangzur geog has an irrigation channel for
July 1999                                     3-11



EA final report
a length of 20.44 km to irrigate paddy fields of a 199 hectares serving 239 HH. Kurteo geog has about
12 m irrigating approximately 137.5 hectares benefiting 129 HH. Most of the channels are earthen
while some critical ones are concreted.
3.3.2.9 Health Facilities
The main hospital in the Dzongkhag is located at Phaling under Gangzur geog and Dungkhar geog
has one Basic Health Unit (BHU) at Dungkhar. A big hospital at Tongkangla under Gangzur geog is
under construction that will ease many health difficulties encountered at the moment. For far distant
places there is outreach clinic visiting once in every week from the main hospital.
3.3.2.10 Water Supply and Sanitation
Drinking water is quite a problem in both the geogs as it has to draw from far away points. It is
basically surface water, relatively clean and safe. As most of the villages are scattered in pockets it has
been difficult for the government to provide common tap water facilities.
Smokeless chimneys are provided under UNICEF's patronage covering all most all villages but have
become defunct, as it has proved inefficient. Cooking is all by firewood in their traditional mud stove
and the smog and pollution in indoors is worth mentioning.
With the geogs connected with road the people can switchover/access to other cooking energies such
as kerosene and LPG. This can avoid the indoor pollution to certain extent.
Pit latrines are practiced by almost all HH but in some cases an open toilet has become quite common.
July 1999                                  3-12



EA final report
4 ASSESSMENT OF IMPACTS
The impacts are both positively and negatively assessed. Positive impacts are those that improve existing
situations while negative impacts are associated with unwanted aspects: The social, economic and cultural
impacts are discussed in two distinct headings i.e. one under specific chainage and the other general
discussion that applies to all chainages. Physical and biological impacts are arranged by chainage-wise.
4.1 CHAINAGE 0+0009 -1+350 KM (TAKEOFF PRIORITY II) (0 TO GANGZUR)
4.1.1. Physical Impact
4.1.1.1 'Air Quality and Noise
As the takeoff point is heavily settled with about 20 shops and many others it is likely that dust pollution
can have some impact on the built in ecosystem. Similarly, noise from the machine and construction
blasting could have some impact in the initial stage. In the post construction period the impact from
vehicle frequency is not expected as experienced in other feeder roads in Bhutan.
4.1.1.2 Landslide, Geology and Soil
The rock type in the portion is irregularly exposed and is made up of predominantly of feldspathised
garnet biotite gneiss with + sillimanate. Wide opened discontinuities sets, which is further weakened by
the fracture, fragmented and folded. Greyish brown colored topsoil underlined by light yellowish sand
with a few pockets of silt/clay constitutes the main portion. Stabilized landslides are reactivated at places
and further triggered by seepage of water and rainfall. The minimum side slope gradient recorded is 45%
while at certain points the sides slope gradient exceeds 100%. The average side slope gradient in this
stretch can therefore be concluded as 75%.
4.1.1.3 Water Resources and Hydrology
There are no adverse effect on water resources and the hydrology of the area. The only concern would be
surface water during and after construction as road longitudinal gradient makes water. flow toward
settlement areas.
4.1.1.4  Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics
This stretch will be much impacted with landscape as area is sparsely vegetated and further cut material
rolling down may become unavoidable due to rugged steep terrain causing massive land area scar.
4.1.1.5 Land Use
On pastures it might have some marginal impact, as most of the areas are used for grazing.
'0+000=0 (Kilometer) + (meter)
July 1999                                  4-1



EAfinal report
4.1.2. Biological Impact
4.1.2.1 Vegetation
Anthropological and cattle activities have heavily degraded the area between this stretch. Few vegetation's
found are Rhododendron species, Quercus Griffithi, Artemesia species, ferns, Lyonis species, Rubia
manjjita etc. In the south facing slopes the ground cover has been dominated by Cympobogon species
(lemon grass). Negative impacts on vegetation out of road construction are not foreseen.
4.1.2.2 Wildlife
Important wildlife species are not observed in this stretch nor reported by the locals when interviewed.
Few birds species found are Bulbul, Doves, fly Catchers, and Babler. These species are not included under
the protected list of the Forest and Nature Conservation Acts 1995 or under the list of International Union
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
4.1.2.3  Livestock
Livestock (referred to cattle only) is an important part of their daily living. As can be seen from the
baseline data chapter Gangzur geog has the maximum heads of cattle. Due to construction activity
livestock may have certain impacts which should be mitigated properly.
4.1.3. Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts
4.1.3.1 Land Expropriation
As the road takes off through steep slopes it is likely that rolling material will make immediate downhill
cultivation difficult. About 0.13 acres of Kamzhing will get impacted. It will also involve 2.26 acres of
Tseri, Chuzhing about 0.2 acres, Sokzhing about 0.74 acres and approximately 0.74 acres of Tsamdo.
In this stretch there involves a couple of hairpin bends on steep slopes at certain points hitting natural
rock piles. It is therefore likely that materials can easily roll down affecting 4 acres of paddy cultivation as
construction mass disposal site doesn't exists nearby.
4.1.3.2 Impacts on Infrastructure
Just a few meters after the takeoff point about 3 permanent Bhutanese traditional houses may be effected
as it is located a little above the road head. A couple of huts, housing shops at the moment may also be
effected.' 2 electric transmission poles needs re-location at the Phaling area and further about 11 poles
crossing the hair pin bends.
As electric transmission lines are yet to be tensioned the road would have a positive impact during
installation.
4.1.3.3 Fuelwood Impact
Fuelwood is not much available in this stretch. People spent about 4 hours to fetch a back-load of
fuelwood. The construction workforce can compound this impact if freely allowed to collect in the
vicinity.
July 1999                                    4-2



EA final report
4.2 1+350 - 4+200 KM (GANGZUR TO CHUNEYGANG CIIHU)
4.2.1. Physical Impact
4.2.1.1 Air QualityandNoise
Gangzur people and the work force of the Mini-hydropower project located close to Gangzur are the
populous who will be effected most by this pollution. As the impacts are temporary people are willing to
compromise as expressed in the public consultation session held at Gangzur on May 3, 1999.
4.2.1.2 Landslide, Geology and Soil
Deep red colored silt/clay goes about 150m from Tangkhar Chhu. Grayish yellow to red colored, fine to
medium grained sand with clastics of sharp and tabular shape gneiss and quartzite, thinly bedded flaggy
quartzite having a color bedding and ripple marks starts at chainage 3 + 600 km. The rock dips towards
the road, which may cause plane failure. The contact between gneiss and quartzite appears to be thrusted.
Though the slope is quite favorable proper construction methods need to be adopted as chances of plane
failures are likely.
The maximum slope gradient has been recorded at 75% while the minimum is about 35% and the average
slope gradient comes to around 55% which is the most favorable stretch of the total.
4.2.1.3 Water Resources and Hydrology
Drinking water sources for the settlement areas are not predicted to be effected. As construction hits a
rocky stretch to obtain abutment space at the Gangzur Chhu crossing heavy blasting may cause water
clogging as a result of material piled up over the crossing. If this happens it can flood the downstream
paddies during monsoon as the occurrence of flash floods been reported by the locals and evidences
observed during assessment.
A little before reaching the end of the chainage a heavy cut is expected which may roll all into Kuri Chhu.
Besides foreseeing little impact on fish life much hydrological problems are not predicted as the river
width is wide enough to accommodate the monsoon rise.
4.2.1.4 Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics
* This stretch runs through relatively easier terrain and landscape impact is not much foreseen as
construction can adopt balanced cut and fill method. However at certain points it may be impacted.
4.2.1.5 Land Use
The camps for the project are proposed in the Tsamdo area of Gangzur, which might change the existing
land use slightly. Otherwise much adverse effect is not foreseen.
4.2.2. Biological Impact
4.2.2. 1 Vegetation
There is not much vegetation in this stretch of the road, as it passes through agricultural land and scrub
forest, except at around Chuneygang Chhu where the vegetation is well stocked. The vegetation's found
July 1999                                  4-3



EA final report
are, Murraya koenegii, Emblica officinalis, Xanthoxylum spp., Ficus spp., Toricellia tilofolia, Indigofera
heterantha, Desmodium spp., Agave americana, Aesendra butyraceae.
Around Chuneygang Chhu the tree species found are Syzygium cumminii, Mallotus phillipenensis,
Albezzia lebbeck, Terminalia myrocarpa, Castanopsis spp., Sappindus sebiferum, Brassiopsis hainla,
Clerodendron spp. There might be some negative impacts on the vegetation as there will be some
clearance of forests along the road. The clearance of the forests will make approximately 100 m3 of fuel
wood readily available.
4.2.2.2 Wildlife
Important wildlife species are not observed in this stretch nor reported by the locals when interviewed.
Only Rhesus monkeys and lizards were observed and as per the local reports there are wild boars and
snakes as well. The bird species observed were, Whistling thrush, Scarlet-breasted sunbird, Red-vented
bulbul, Stripe-throated Yuhinia, Ashy drongo, Rufous-backed Shrike. These species are not included under
the protected list of the Forest and Nature Conservation Act 1995 or under the IUCN.
4.2.2.3  Livestock
The road transacts through the middle of natural pastures where people frequently herd their cattle.
Construction can have some impact particularly with the blasting activity.
4.2.3. Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts
4.2.3.1  Land Expropriation
In this chainage the road construction can have a minimum influence on the pristine agricultural land if
mitigation measures are properly attended. The only land that may be appropriated for the road would be
about 5 acres of Tsamdo, and about 3.5 acres of Tseri. 2 acres of Chuzhing may be effected due to rolling
materials as it is located immediately below the road.
2 acres of Tsamdo for temporary project camp setup. For permanent maintenance setup it might require
about 0.45 acres for 5 families with a small kitchen garden.
4.2.3.2  Impacts on Infrastructure
Little above Gangzur two electric transmission poles can be effected which may need re-location. The
major impact on infrastructure could be on the irrigation cha.nnels drawing at about three sources. If
irrigation channels are not well attended to the construction might effect Chuzhing cultivation of more
than 20 acres, the lifeline for Gangzur people.
4.2.3.3 Fuelwood Impact
People in this stretch also faces severe fuelwood shortages. Yeshey Dorji of Gangzur expressed during
public consultation that to fetch a back-load of quality fuelwood takes them at least 5 hours. If fuelwood
from scrub forest is collected then within 3 hours a back-load can reach their door.
July 1999                                   4-4



EA final report
4.3 4+200 - 12+900 KM (CHUNEYGANG CHHU TO YUWA)
4.3.1. Physical Impact
4.3.1.1 Air Quality and Noise
As this stretch is relatively populated dust pollution may have some adverse impacts on the settlement as a
result of construction activities. Further the area being quite dry might accelerate dust pollution.
4.3.1.2  Landslides, Geology and Soil
Quartz mica schist (+ Garnet + sillimanite), micaceous quartzite with minor graphitic schist, hematite and
calc gneiss is thrusted over granite gneiss and garnet mica schist (t sillimanite) of Survey formation. In
the contact the rocks are highly fractured, fragmented and sheared. Greyish brown to yellow colored sand
with clastic of gneiss of quartzite is loosely set. Few pockets of deep red silt/clay and scree materials are
observed. Small landslides and marshy lands are also seen at places. In most of the locations the distance
between proposed road alignment and Kuri Chhu are quite close which may have some toe erosion
problem. The average slope gradient is about 65% with minimum side slope of 40% and at certain places
exceeding 85%.
4.3.1.3 Water Resources and Hydrology
Before reaching Kilung Chhu and little after Kilung Chhu most of the Chuzhings are located above the
road head. The spill over irrigation water may make the road construction and maintenance difficult. In
some areas there are marshy spots which may be a great problem.
4.3.1.4 Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics
Landscape impact is not much foreseen as road runs through thick broad leafed forest. At certain points
the road hits scrub forest with steep terrain where construction should be executed carefully.
4.3.1.5  Land Use
The land uses that might change are the road corridor opening up to maximum 30m, camps need to be
settled which might take some pasture land, and 2 acres of Kamzhing into temporary settlement. Impacts
are rather minimum which can be ignored.
4.3.2. Biological Impact
4.3.2.1  Vegetation
This stretch is predominantly covered by the sub-tropical forest species. At two places patches of Quercus
griffithii exists. The vegetation around Yuwa village is denser with tall and matured trees of Macaranga
species and Schima wallichii. The other species found are, Syzygium cuminii, Mallotus phillipenensis,
Albezzia lebbeck, Terminalia myrocarpa, Castanopsis spp., Maccaranga species, "Kaphal", Bombax
ceiba. Shrubs and undergrowth species are, Brassiopsis hainla, Clerodendron, Ficus cunia, "Darimpatte"
Xanthoxylum species, Rhus species, Murrya koenigii, Callicarpa species. Artemesia species,
Aesophodaeda sp., Emblica officinalis. "nushing" Adhatoda vessica, Maesa chisa, Rubus spp, Rubia
manjita, Pandanus sp., 'pipla", Arisaema sp., Vibernum erubescence.
July 1999                                  4-5



EA final report
Assuming that average road corridor will take about 15m width, approx. 13 hectare will be subjected for
corridor opening. Taking Pre Investment Survey Report (forest) of Bhutan the growing stock for the
project area forest type (hardwood) is projected to have a volume of about 228 m'/ha2. The tree volume
that may be harvested from the corridor can be estimated to about (13 ha x 228 m3/ha) 2964 m3. Of 2964
m3, 1185 m3 (40% of the total for broadleafed)) will be log volume and rest fuelwood volume.
4.3.2.2 Wildlife
Important wildlife species are not found in this stretch. The few species observed are the common bird
species described earlier and the following additional species such as, Forest Eagle owl and the Himalayan
tree pie.
However, a little concerning aquatic life, there might be some impacts on the migratory fishes in the
Kilung Chhu. This river is beirng used by migratory fishes for spawning purposes and construction spoil
disposal and dumping of trees and branches might clog and obstruct the free movement of these fish
during and after spawning.
4.3.2.3 Livestock
As the locality have a lot of livestock traditionally herded in the natural pasture land the construction
might have certain impacts particularly as a result of blasting. Warning needs to be given in advance.
4.3.3. Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impact
4.3.3.1  Land Expropriation
This is the critical chainage, which encounters agricultural land at various points. The land needs to be
expropriated for road right-of-viay about 2.84 acres of Tseri, approximately 2.16 acres of Chuzhing, and
Kamzhing about 10.39 acres.
About 5 acres of Chuzhing is located immediately below which may need temporary appropriation, as it
would be unsafe to cultivate during construction. Further 2 acres of orange orchards about 2 years old may
also partly be disturbed.
4.3.3.2 Impacts on Infrastructure
Between these chainages the infrastructures that may be negatively effected are: 3 temporary huts at
Nongma Chorten, double storeyed traditional house after Lingabey measuring about 80 m2 at the plinth,
and 3 electric transmission poles that may be disturbed. At Nongma Chorten there is also a double
storeyed traditional Dzongkhag extension building that may be effected if construction is carried out quite
traditionally.
The irrigation channel for 5 acres of Chuzhing below the road intersects with the road alignment that may
be effected.
2 Pre Investment Survey (PIS) Report, Eastem Zone, Bhutan.
July 1999                                   4-6



EA final report
4.3.3.3 Fuelwood Impact
Fuelwood is much available and people express no impact due to the presence of workforce. However,
control should be put in place to avoid random clearing, which might have impact in the long run.
4.4  12+900 - 22+450 KM (YUWA TO ZHAMLING)
4.4.1. Physical Impact
4.4.1.1 Air Quality and Noise
Local people are not affected, as settlements are located at far distances.
4.4.1.2 Landslides, Geology and Soil
This stretch also belongs to the survey formation consisting of gneiss and gametifereous mica schist with
thin bands of quartzite. In the proposed (Priority 1I) hairpin (Yongmaling) region is made up of scree
boulders piled one over the other. The upstream of the proposed hairpin bend consists of topsoil and
residual soil (sand) with clastic of gneiss. There are few sag ponds (at present dry) break in topography,
spring water etc. that may be the indications of creep deformation/instability. However, through visual
observation particularly with vegetation growth the area seems quite stable with occurrence of landslides
estimated at more than 300 years old.
As the EA mission has suggested alignment Priority II in this area detailed investigation of the site needs
to be executed before final decision on this alignment is solicited.
The Priority I alignment in this chainage may hit about 500m of rocky section in which construction may
be quite formidable. The average side slope in most of the sections exceeds 100%.
4. 4.1.3 Water Resources and Hydrology
As there is abrupt break in the topography there are chances of water pooling into the gorges where the
road makes several hair pin bends. Water clogging/flooding may be a major problem in those bends. As
all the cut material are likely roll downhill Kuri Chhu might be impacted.
4.4.1.4 Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics
This stretch is quite critical concerning landscape impact as it runs through steep rocky terrain. Particular
attention should be paid to choose the best route alternative and proper construction technology.
4. 4.1.5 Land Use
If the construction is not properly executed the existing land use might have major changes as the terrain
is very steep. There are possibilities of forest area becoming bare giving the landscape an aesthetically
unpleasing look. The impact may extend down to Kuri Chhu bed.
July 1999                                  4-7



EA final report
4.4.2. Biological Impact
4.4.2.1  Vegetation
The road encounters forest at different lengths, broad leafed forest and a pure patch of Albezzia species
for 1.5 km. The chir pine forest goes for about 7 km. up to Tshombi village. Then for about 2 km the road
enters the cool broad-leafed forests up to Zhamling. The species found are, Syzizium cumini, Albezzia,
Chir pine, Lvonia, Buddleja asiatica, Indigofera dosua, Rhus paniculata, Woodfordia fruticosa, lemon
grass, Emblica officinalis, Alnus nepalensis,  Acer species, Betula alnoides, Quercus lamelloso,
Brassaiopsis alpina, Lindera species, Persea species, Juglans regia and other broad-leaved species.
Approximately 414 m3 of chir pine logs, 622 m3 of fuel wood can be obtained from right-of-way felling.
Negative impacts on vegetation are foreseen, especially in the chir pine region as the slope is very steep
and rocky.
4.4.2.2 Wildlife
The wild life is richer in this section. According to the locals python is available which falls under the
protected list of Schedule I of the Forest and Nature Conservation Act, 1995. Other species observed are
wild boars. barking deer, rhesus monkeys. The bird species observed are, Common Hawk Cuckoo, Indian
Cuckoo, Himalayan Barbet, Red vented bulbul, Shrike, Golden oriole, doves, jungle crows, fly catchers,
whistling thrush, Ashy drongo, kali pheasant. The locals reported about the existence of leopard and
Crimson Horned pheasants (Monal) and the Impeyan Pheasant. These species fall under the Schedule I of
the Forest and Nature Conservation Act, 1995.
Negative impacts on the habitats of the above wildlife are not foreseen. However, poaching could be
possible threat by the road construction work force.
4.4.2.3  Livestock
As the general topography is very steep most of the areas may not be accessible for grazing. However, at
the fringes of rocky cliff cattle .are seen grazing which might have certain impacts. The road can however
facilitate for easy cattle migration which at the moment takes days to reach the next pasture.
4.4.3. Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impacts
4.4.3.1  Land Expropriation
No private land involved.
4.4.3.2 Impacts on Infrastructure
There are about 3 houses in this stretch, which the road may have some influence during construction.
This is only the case if alignment is followed as per the EA mission recommendation. However, should
alignment be adopted as per the DoR plan (refer Annex 5) the damages may be slightly higher. The main
infrastructure impact in this chainage would be on drinking supply channel for the Rotpa people (about 1I
HH).
July 1999                                   4-8



EA final report
4.4.3.3  Fuelwood Impact
Rotpa people have fuelwood scarcity problem. The workforce should be prepared with their own cooking
energies. Others are as discussed in the section 4.3.3.3.
4.5 22+450 - 37+000 KM (ZHAMLING - DUNGKHAR)
4.5.1. Physical Impact
4.5.1.1 Air Quality and Noise
In this chainage air quality and noise pollution could be of little concern as the road touches two heavy
settlements. Air pollution could basically be dust as a result of construction and emissions from machines.
Noise as a result of blasting can have some impacts on wildlife and livestock.
The impact due to traffic intensity in the operation period is not foreseen.
4.5.1.2  Landslides, Geology and Soil
The area is quite marshy with few exposures to gneiss associated with marble, silicate and mica schist.
Before reaching the proposed road terminal (Dungkhar Nagtsang, active landslides are observed with
white micaceous quartzite that are highly sheared, fractured and fragmented. It is stron2lv recommended
that detailed sloDe stability investi!ation should be carried out by leo-technical engineer before
decision is made.
The geological assessment map provided in page 4-10 details possible stone quarrying sites and other
geological findings. Suitable spoil disposal sites are not illustrated in the map but EA recommends that
small natural gullies/depressions can be used.
4.5.1.3  Water Resources and Hydrology
Drinking water sources are located far distances and there are chances that the road construction may
degrade the water quality and continuity through the development of diseases vector ponds. Proper
location of wastes disposal sites, toilets should be emphasized.
A stream passing between Tabi and Tongdenla flows through a narrow ravine, which may be clogged
through a build up of spoil material. This.may trigger flash floods, which may effect the ecosystems of the
locality and beyond those borders.
4.5.1.4  Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics
As the proposed alignment runs through thick broad-leafed vegetation the landscape is not expected to
impact much favored by mild terrain side slope. Log barriers can be used to protect vegetation damage by
cut material rolling down.
4.5.1.5  Land Use
The land use that will be impacted in this stretch will basically be agricultural land before reaching
Dungkhar and the natural broad-leafed forest. Except the opening of road corridor major land use change
are not foreseen.
July 1999                                  4-9



E- fin7al report
, ., ,      r; K  L -.Gedoloy Along Proposed
. ! - X.- 859 , o .Lhunto - Dunkhar Rod
S -~~~~~~~ ----                 ';SS-GICM' )  ----s     \a    -X:A  {s                                 "
^ * - -v r*-->,- - }SHUARE FORMATION
e  °  2  4 Klometers        2 " ~~ 2'9 ' ' }:' - -?li'        Granibid gn lss. pt2.
July~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 1999E 4-  0IO



EA final report
4.5.2. Biological Impacts
4.5.2.1  Vegetation
The road passes through the cool broad-leafed forest and its vegetation composition is nearly the same as
described in section 4.4.2.1. There is a patch of thomy bamboo, (Chimonobambusa callosa) underneath
the forest, which continues for about 2-3 km.
Approximately 1605 m3 of hardwood logs and 2408 m3 of fuelwood will be available from the
clearance of forests for road construction. As the area is thickly vegetated despite steep terrain in some
places there is danger of getting the downhill-vegetated area barren.
4.5.2.2 Wildlife
The wildlife is the same as described in the previous chainage as the same forest type continues until the
road end. Therefore the negative impacts as described in the previous section are also applicable here.
4.5.2.3 Livestock
The area is rich in livestock (particularly cattle) as can be seen from the baseline data and from the field
observation. The road passes along the potential natural grazing spots. The construction activities mainly
blasting can have serious impacts on the livestock.
4.5.3. Specific Social, Economic and Cultural Impact
4.5.3.1  Land Expropriation
At Zhamling the road might take about 3.7 acres of Kamzhing and Tseri about 4 acres. Tsamdo at some
points may be effected but precise figures could not be drawn as persons representing the geog in the EA
mission do not know much about the boundaries.
At Dungkhar the land that may be appropriated for the road right-of-way is estimated at approximately 0.3
acres of Sokzhing and 1 .5 acres of Kamzhing.
4.5.3.2  Impact on Infrastructure
At Dungkhar it is estimated that about 3 temporary huts may. need resettlement as alignment may hit
slightly above or below these huts. Approximately 35 acres of Chuzhing is located below the road head,
irrigating water drawn at several locations. Road construction can have serious impacts on these irrigation
channels, which is a lifeline for about 19 HH.
4.5.3.3 Fuelwood Impact
Zhamling people will have lesser fuelwood impact compared to Dungkhar. The workforce should limit
their fuelwood collection to corridor opening.
July 1999                                  4-11



EA final report
4.6 GENERAL SOCIAL, ECONOMY AND CULTURAL IMPACT
4.6.1. Health Facilities
The project will increase the demand for health services in the area which will have impacts on the local
populace. There is also a general need to improve the awareness about health and sanitation issues in the
area. There are chances of spreading foreign diseases vigorously due to an illiteracy problem.
The communities like Thimyul, Samling, Lingabey, Tsholing and Nye are thickly populated which
sustains little medical facilities through an outreach clinic. PeQple have to hike for, a day to reach Lhuntse
hospital for proper treatment. The basic medical facilities 'are provided by out reach clinics visiting once a
week in a designated place. There is therefore a need to improve medical care. Similarly, the people of
Shawa, Rotpa, Shesa, Zhamling have this problem. Dungkhar people are little better off due to a BHU
setup at Dungkhar.
The project can have a truly positive impact as services can pour in easily or patients can be transported in
an hour or so compared to nearly 2 days journey at present.
4.6.2. Education Facilities
It is likely that as a result of many external influences accompanying the project, more farmers will want
to have their children educated. Migrant workers who bring their families will need education facilities for
their children, as will the children of maintenance staff after completion of the project. These will have
impact on the existing education facilities.
The positive impact of the road is that the illiteracy rate may increase as the number of school enrollment
will increase as facilitated by the road.
Another positive impact would be that the road can help establish a proposed Junior High School at
Phuyum and a community school at Thimyul smoothly. The road can encourage the enrollment rate in
schools at Lhuntse and elsewhere as communication becomes easier.
4.6.3. Economic
Economically the region will have a positive impact and some of the direct impacts are employment
opportunities and market facilities for local products. Associated with indirect economic impacts:
*  development of businesses:
*  increase in real income:
*  increase in regional GDP as a result of increase in real income:
*  monetization of rural economy as agro-based economy will be increasingly monetized as a result of
cash flow in the project area:
*  flow of goods and services: and
•  increase in the value of land.
As of now whatever they produce in the farm is just for their intemal consumption as market opportunities
hardly exist. For instance, the people of Dungkhar to raise their financial income carries a back load (max.
40 kg) of potatoes all the way up to Lhuntse Dzong (about 11/2 days) and ultimately lands up just getting
a carrying charge by selling at Nu 5 per kg.
July 1999                                  4-12



EA final report
The locals are also under frequent pressures sometimes in their peak cultivation season carrying baggage
of visiting civil servants and other public facilities required at Dungkhar.
As the region is climatically suitable for various cash crop cultivation the road can have positive impact to
raise the harsh condition of the localities. Furthermore, as some HH have marginal land holdin,gs' people
expressed enough time to work in other income activities such as petty road works. The road can also help
bring in other public services harmoniously.
4.6.4. Culture
The foreign work force might have some cultural conflict with the locals. It has however been clearly
clarified during public consultation by the people of two geogs that they can adjust to it as the foreigners
will stay temporarily and the project is purely for their benefit.
4.6.5. Religious Monuments
There is one religious monument at about 300m from the take off point. After Gangzur Chhu the
alignment encounters a long stupa (Mani Dandrim) after few meters crossing of the Gangzur Chhu.
Further two water prayer wheels (Chukor Manis) are located below the road that needs careful disposal of
construction material. Constant water supply is needed to keep the wheel going around.
Few meters after Chuneygang Chhu a beautifully looking chorten transacts the road, 3 similar chortens
and a Mani above Thimyul suspension bridge, 1 mani before reaching Kilung Chhu and I recently built
chorten after Lingabey.
The identified problem areas and possible work campsites is illustrated in the following map (page 4-14).
4.7 INSTITUTIONAL CAPABILITY
As the road construction following environmentally friendly methods is still at its early stage of
development there are needs to build the capability of DoR at every stage of hierarchy of the
organizational setup. More elaborated in Chapter 5.
4.8 COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES
4.8.1. Alignment Alternatives
EA followed the alignment fixed by the DOR feasibility team (refer Annex 5) and based upon the
findings, realignment alternatives are suggested:
* takeoff alternatives; and
* alignment altei-natives between Yuwa and Zhamling
TAKEOFF ALTERNATIVES
Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road takeoff is possible from two points along the Lhuntse highway. Priority I
takeoff will be from little above the new Lhuntse hospital, at Tongkangla while Priority II takeoff will
be just below the old Lhuntse hospital, before approaching Phaling shopping complex. Both the takeoffs
ultimately join the existing dirt track (7 km) constructed by the Division of Power (DOP) before reaching
Gangzur. The alignment then closely follows the dirt track until the end. Priority I takeoff follows the dirt
track. The Priority lI takeoffjoins the dirt track after approximately 1.50 km.
'The DOR feasibility team had also looked into these alternatives.
July 1999                                  4-13



EA final report
The prioritization has been based on environmental, social and economic reasons. The map depicting
suggested alignment alternatives is provided in page 5-2. The comparisons are provided in the following
Table 4. 1.
TABLE 4.1: COMPARISON OF TAKEOFF ALTERNATIVES, LHUNTSE - DUNGKHAR ROAD
PRIORITY I                                     PRIORITY II
Takeoff from little above new Lhuntse hospital   Takeoff  from  below  old Lbuntse hospital
Negative impacts                                  (Phalin2)
Negative ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~eatv impacts
*  noise pollution to hospital patient            Negative impacts
*  alignment passes through active landslides
Positive impacts                                      areas and steep side slopes > 75%
.  can short cut road by 1km                      *  permanent land expropriation estimated are:
0.13 acre of Kamzhing, 0.2 acre of Chuzhing,
*  no damage to agricultural land                    0.74 acre of Sokzhing
*  no forest clearings                            .  3 permanent houses can be affected
*  couple of huts at Phaling need relocation
*  passes through geologically stable terrain     .  13 electric transmission poles need relocation
*  does not affect settlements                    *  steeper vertical gradients at hairpin bends
might need consideration as site is critically
*  does not affect cultural monuments                 confined between ridge and deep gorge
.  does not need spoil disposal sites             .  heavy spoil material need proper disposal and
might probably roll downhill as sites to lay
spoil are non existent nearby
*  temporary  expropriation  of Chuzhing  is
estimated at 4 acre as a result of spoil rolling
downhill
*  many retaining structures are required
*  the road will be more than I km longer
Positive impacts
. proposed Junior High School construction at
Phuyum (approx. 600m from takeoff) can
benefit and can save cost of approach road
construction
ALIGNMENT ALTERNATIVES BETWEEN YUWA AND ZHAMLING
Fixing best suitable alignment is very crucial between this stretch as considerable length of road passes
through steep rocky terrain. As per DOR feasibility study (refer Annex 5) one hairpin bend was proposed
a little after Yuwa and then alignment passes through the middle of steep rocky section. As this will have
considerable negative impact environmentally and economically following two alternatives are suggested:
Alignment Priority I
A little after Yuwa bridge maintain couple of hairpin bends and then align with relatively higher gradient
to hit the crown of the steep rocky section, passing somewhere above Khoatangla ridge.
July 1999                                  4-14



EA final report
Alignment Priority II
Few hundreds meter from Yuwa bridge maintain several hairpin bends until reasonable gradient is
achieved to hit the Wamtangla ridge.
Since, EA Team had the limited time to study the alignment alternatives thoroughly both the possible
alternatives need detailed study before deciding the recommended alternative.
The possible alternatives are from our preliminary investigations and comparison of these alternatives are
provided below in Table 4.2.
TABLE 4.2: COMPARISON OF ALIGNMENT ALTERNATIVES BETWEEN YUWA AND ZHAMLING
PRIORITY I (Red color in the map)               PRIORITY II (Violet in the map)
Positive Impacts                                  Positive Impacts
*  few hairpin bends will be required             *  initial construction cost might be lower
*  once constructed the road will be stable requiring
less maintenance as area is geologically stable                      r
except at the hairpin bends which has some doubt of  Kulongpho to benefit people of Shawa and
soil stability                                   thrima villages
.  there are possibiiities to extend  road  up to  Negative Impacts
Kulongpho to benefit people of Shawa and thrima
villages                                      *  several hairpin bends will be involved which
Nega es                                           might require regular maintenance
Negative Impacts
*  initial construction cost might be slightly higher  *  it passes through good stock of broad leafed
*  as it passes through steep terrain spoil rolling down  forest
may become unavoidable damaging vegetation
downhill of road                              *  screes/talus are observed In which case the
downhill_________________of______road________    slope stability is doubtful
The proposed project has also been compared with executing the project with different methods of
construction and with do-nothing alternative i.e. without a road project. Environmental Friendly
Construction Method (EFCM) incase of enough resources availability and Traditional Construction
Method (TCM) will adopt when resources are limited.
The comparison scenario is as provided under in Table 4.3.
TABLE 4.3: COMPARISON SCENARIO BETWEEN EFCM AND TCM AND WITH DO-NOTHING
ALTERNATIVE
EFCM                        Traditional Construction    Do-nothing alternative
method (TCM)
RANK I                      RANK II                     RANK III
Nezative impacts            Neeative impacts             *  Every indication that the
. .   .               .               ~~~~~~~~~~locality will remain poor
*  high initial construction    *  more vegetation damage    al  will remandpoor
due~~ toctan.ho          as region gets landlocked
cost                        d       l   . .,            (not accessible  by  any
Positive impacts                material downhill           mode  of transportation
. low maintenance cost      *  wildlife disturbance as      except hard walk).
vegetation cover is
.  environmentally less        reduced
July 1999                                  4-15



EA final report
damaging and            *  more landslides and          foreign resources such as
aesthetically pleasing      erosion as mitigation       cooking  energies,  and
house       construction
modality of             *  conflict with the locals     material.
implementation is
acceptable to all parties as  *  high maintenance cost  *  Other    development
mitigation measures are    Positive impact              proposals are hindered as
arranged                                                communication  becomes
l low initial construction     difficult.
cost
4.9 PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE
Public consultation has been held at different levels: central government, local government (Dzongkhag),
project affected area, and Non Governmental Organizations.
The purpose of the consultations were:
* Collect information relevant to the project
• Invite suggestions for the benefit of the project
e Inforrn the people about the nature of the project and implementation modalities and coordination
that should be rendered when the project is implemented
* Solicit views of the people wherever possible
4.9.1. Central Government
The government agencies held consultations with:
* National Environment Commission (NEC);
a Ministry of Agriculture;
*   Forestry Services Division;
Geological Survey of Bhutan;
* Survey of Bhutan (Land Records); and
* Division of Roads.
4.9.2. Local Government (Dzongkhag)
Extensive discussion were held with Lhuntse District Administrator (Dzongdag) and other Dzongkhag
officials met were:
* Dzongkhag Administration Officer;
* Service sector: District Engineer, Public Health Officer, Education Officer;
* Range officer;
* Forestry extension officer;
* Agriculture extension officer;
July 1999                                  4-16



EL final report
*  Veterinary extension officer;
4.9.3. Project Affected People
As illustrated in the map elsewhere in this report that Gangzur and Kurteo geog are the two main direct
beneficiaries of the project.
The consultations were held at different places through individual interviews and group discussions. The
consultations were at:
I     Gangzur, representing 14 households (HH) of which 8 were women and 4 men (100% HH
representation from this village)
2.    Kilung and Nimshong people, 5 HH of which 2 were women and rest men (45% HH present)
3.    Lingabey, 16 HH of which 10 were women and 6 men (85% HH present)
4.    Rotpa, Tshrima and Shawa; 54 HH of which 21 were women and 33 men (95% HH represented)
5.    Zhamling and Khaochung, 25 HH of which 1O were women and 15 men (100 % HH represented)
6.    Dungkhar and Tabi, 29 HH of which 14 were women and rest men (95% HH represented)
The methods adopted were:
a)      Introducing/explaining the whole project related activity (both positive as well as negative
impacts) by Karma Jimba.
b)      The Gup facilitated the meeting supported by Mangiapp (village headman) and Tshogpa (village
representative to Geog Yargye Tshogchung);
c)      The meeting/consultation was to ensure that it was not dominated by an individual (vibrant
speakers)
d)      Consensus drawn on points if all agree on what the others say
The basic conclusions of the consultation were:
* People agree with-whatever conditions they may have from the govemment relating to the project as
the road request proposal have come out of them;
* They agree to corporate for the success of the project as project is for their own benefit;
* Little damage that road may cause for their agricultural field or to few houses, they voiced with a will
to compromise at a compensation arranged by the government. Many people expressed that without
little effect there won't be good cause for which they have no negative feelings.
* Shawa and Tshrima people gathered at Khoatangla to meet EA team expressed that though there are
problems to reach road up to their village given difficult terrain but it should be considered that
proposed road plan which bends at little above Khoatangla towards Zhamling be extended up to
Kulongpho so that their walking distance be reduced from 4 to I hour to reach their villages.
* People extends happiness and satisfaction for the government for having sent the EA team to consult
with them and given to understand the full proposal of the project.
Full consultation is documented in (Annex 2).
July 1999                                 4-17



EA final report
4.9.4. Non-governmental organization
Consultations were held with Dr. Kinley Dorji, the executive Director of Royal Society for the Protection
of Nature (RSPN) and also responsible for World Life Fund Bhutan Program. The only concern that he
expressed about the project was effect on the proposed wildlife corridor connecting Bomdeling Wildlife
Sanctuary and Thrumshingla National Park (refer Annex 7). As important wildlife was not observed
during EA fieldwork it may be assumed that animal movements might be happening seasonally. If project
considers environmental management plan (EMP) the impacts on wildlife concern can be eliminated or
reduced.
4.9.5. Disclosure of EA findings and recommendations
The findings of EA and recommendations were disclosed to the key stakeholders:
1. On 17'h June 1999 presented to Lhuntse Dzongkhag stakeholders at conference of Lhuntse
Dzongkhag, involving Dzongkhag sector heads, Gups, Mangiapps, Tshogpas of Kurteo and Gangzur
Geog. The gups were charged with responsibilities to relay the findings and recommendations to their
respective block people as reported in EA report. Overhead aid was used to present findings. No
significant comments were received from the house.
2. On 16th June 1999 presentation was held for officials at Thimphu at the conference hall of the
Ministry of Communications. The participating institutions were DoR engineers, NEC, Forestry
Services Division, Ministry of Agri-culture, Planning Commission Secretariat, Non-governmental
Organizations, Division of Health, Survey of Bhutan, and the Netherlands Development Association,
based in Thimphu.
Extensive discussions went on particularly on the road takeoff points. The discussions indicated that
Health Division is not in favor of the road takeoff from near new Lhuntse hospital.
July 1999                                 4-18



EA final report
5 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
There are two important features that is responsible for the efficient management of negative impacts
resulting during and after construction while enhancing benefits:
* Impact mitigation measures; and
* Impact monitoring plan.
5.1 IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES
The mitigation measures can help:
*  to look for better ways of execution so that negative impacts are minimized or eliminated while
promoting benefits; and
*  to ensure that the public or individuals do not bear costs, that are greater than the benefits that accrue
them.
To take up environmentally friendly construction it must consider two main types of intervention:
preventive and corrective measures.
Preventive measures must be applied in selection of best alignment alternative, while corrective measures
must be applied in the construction phase.
5.1.1. Alignment Alternatives
5.1.1.1  Takeoff alignment Alternatives
Based on the environmental findings the road takeoff alternative from just above new Lhuntse hospital, at
Tongkangla is recommended.
Should this takeoff be chosen then small dust and noise pollution predicted to affect the patients and to the
hospital compound should be mitigated by constructing a stone masonry wall of approx. 80 m (Length) x
6 m (height). Appreciable noise pollution that needs worth consideration in this area from vehicular traffic
is not foreseen as the maximum vehicle per day will only be five as been experienced in other feeder roads
in Bhutan'. As reported by Lhuntse Dzongkhag Administration there are also no future major planned
development activities in these two geogs that will invite heavy traffic. Given the current trend of road
network development in Bhutan, it may also be concluded that up-gradation of proposed road will go a
long way.
To decide on this road takeoff point it is suggested that DoR initiate coordination with the Division of
Health (DOH), Ministry of Health and Education (MOHE). However, for other reasons if priority 11 is
decided then mitigation measures should follow wherever necessary.
Division of Roads, MOC, 1998
July 1999                                  5-1



d problem areas,
:amping sites, and
ont alternatives
rision of Roads
of Communications
RGOB                                                   f
July 1999
I
N
W*E
S
Proposed Roads:
/\/ Proposed Priority I
/\/ Proposed Priority I
/ Existing
AV/Rivers/Streams
* Settlements
>,  Contours (200m In.
Identified Problem AreaE '
Chuzhing
v  Chortens
1  3  Kamzhing       t
Houses
v  Rocky Section
Proposed Camp Si
)  z  Difficult Terrain
1000   0   1000 2(



------------
(j-
...... .....
so                                  .                           !                                                                                       i                                     i~~~~~~~~~~~



EA final report
5.1.1.2  AlignmentAlternatives Yuwa and Zhamling (12+900- 22+450)
After crossing at Yuwa two alignment alternatives were identified as the area particularly between Yuwa
and Khoatangla encounters steep rocky section, the worst in the whole road length'. The alignment
alternatives are discussed by priority:
Priority I (red color in the map) alignment description
This should make a couple of hairpin bends after few hundreds meters from Yuwa Bridge and pass
through the crown of the rocky cliff to reach above Khoatangla top. From here the alignment should enter
further behind Khoatangla in the direction of Shawa to reach Kulongpho2. From hairpin bend at
Kulongpho the alignment heads Zhamling.
This alternative needs further study before decision and final survey is initiated.
Priority I1 (violet color in the map) alignment description
Yuwa crossing until first hairpin bend the alignment follows same as Prioritv I. From this hairpin bend
further several hairpin bends continue until reaching Wamtangla ridge. From here alignment extends until
Kulongpho and heads towards Zhamling with a hairpin bend at Kulongpho.
This area, where hairpin bends are suggested is predicted to be an old unstable area now fairly stable with
thick vegetation growth mostly huge trees the detailed stability of the area needs to be studied
involving an experienced engineering geologist.
Note: both the alternatives need thorough investiLation (no substitute for legwork) to correspond
EA findines.
5.1.2. Construction Code and Technology
To arrive at an environmental sound road construction an attempt should be made to reduce the cut
material wherever possible. For the feeder roads the construction should closely follow its natural
contours, which is an option to minimize cut. Box cut designs should be avoided in unfavorable slopes, as
cut percentage is more.
Considering the doubtful slope stability a shifting of road centerline towards a valley side (by a retaining
wall) should be implemented. By carrying out shifts in C-line the undercutting of the fragile slopes could
be reduced and part of the cut material be filled in the valley side at the back of retaining wall. In slopes
less than 70% a balanced cut and fill in the same cross section can be achieved.
An excavator CAT 320B with a small motor grader have proved3 a good combination for environmental
sound road construction (refer indicated list of road equipment brigade in Chapter I, project description)
assisted by some other construction accessories. The recommended sequence of construction should be:
refer map to identify places
243 HH of Shawa and Tshrima people will benefit
3 torestry development Corporation. 1998
July 1999                                   5-4



EA final report
*  Removal of vegetation along construction corridor to secure visibility and no hindrance for machine;
*  Removal of topsoil and deposition in a safe place for bioengineering reuse;
*  Foundation excavation for retaining structures and excavated material should be properly stacked for
reuse;
*  Construction of walls with tight stone backfill;
*  Laying log barriers on the valley sides to withhold cut material from sliding downhill;
*  Opening of small track with a small excavator or manually to provide access for later machines;
*  Retaining wall construction (adequate drainage below fill, e.g. culvert) along gullies to facilitate
deposition of cut material;
.* Formation cutting with cut material deposited as per mass distribution plan (stones to be stacked for
later use);
*  Excavation of breast wall foundation and erection;
*  Construction of temporary side drains and causeways;
*  Distribution of topsoil, and application of bio engineering methods on both slopes, above and below
road; and
* Other super structures such as laying gravel, side and cross drain construction etc.
In case of high cut slopes (usually earth sections) it is suggested that construction be carried out in bench
layering so that slope failures are minimized. If the road passes through settlement areas it is
recommended to black top the stretch to control dust pollution. Water spraying may be adopted for that
stretch of road passing through settlement areas. Regular maintenance required during construction should
be carried out by the construction responsible to keep other environmental damages (slope failure due to
water clogging) controlled.
During operation proper maintenance must be attended to particularly drainage systems. Bio- engineering
in combination with civil structures should be applied to keep the slope failures minimum.
5.1.3. Blasting Requirements
Given the site indications it is very likely that construction would involve massive explosives. For the
blasting to be effective, it is important that personnel engaged in blasting cover all recommendations.
*  The construction should adopt controlled blasting methods. The controlled blasting involves not
overcharging which usually does not follow in any construction in Bhutan, and other norms that
should adhere to (refer DoR blasting manual). Overcharging is not only an expensive affair but much
more damaging by far flying rocks. Depending upon the site condition and circumstances other
alternatives should be explored such as: silent blasting, heating and cooling rapidly, forcing rock
splitting iron bars on drilled holes etc.
*  The shotfirer should have attended a recognized course of training and be at least 21 year old.
*  Where the blasting operation is extensive several shotfirers are required with one appointed as an
overall control.
*  Explosives recommended are Power Gel 801 and Special Gelatine SG80, with lesser preference to the
later.
July 1999                                      5-5



EA final report
*  Detonating cord should be used to have a series of holes blasted at a time and other series with a few
seconds later to arrive at cost effective blasting.
*  Experience has illustrated that people react negatively if an operation is begun with out their
knowledge, and reactions could take in the form of complaints. For this reason it is advisable that
people in the surrounding area be informed before the operation.
*  The blasting record should be maintained on a daily basis showing details of calculations made for
charging holes, quantity used, shots fired, name of shotfirer etc.
*  Site storage, transport of explosives, and handling should follow guidelines produced by Ministry of
Home Affairs, and DoR manual.
5.1.4. Water Management
The important salient features to keep the mountain road durable and in condition is by providing a good
drainage system and maintaining it properly at all times. Water is often damaging if not properly drained.
Experience suggests that most of the slope failures are triggered by excess water flowing into the road
area. The sources of water should be thoroughly investigated and water-training structures put in properly.
V-shaped drain is the appropriate recommended longitudinal drain for this road. For the earth section the
longitudinal side drains should be the size of Im (length) x O.5m (width) and in rocky sections 0.5m
(length) x 0.3m (width). To discharge the run off smoothly there should be a cross drain (hume pipe) at
I OOm intervals with a minimum diameter of 60 cm. It must be ensured that the surface run off from the
road is discharged into the natural gully to prevent slope failure.
Between chainage 12+900 - 22+450 km several hairpin bends are suggested and the area looks fairly wet
with numbers of creeks passing by. The retaining structures should be provided with adequate weep holes
and at the base of the retaining structure the side drain should be a little larger than proposed. In such
cases it is also advisable to tap the water by constructing catch water drains such as the French Drain
(stones filled in trench) allowing the catch water to drained into a natural gully.
5.1.5. Right- of-Way Felled Timber Management
FSD staff must mark all the trees that need felling along the proposed road. The Project Unit Lhuntse -
Dungkhar (PU) or contractor should intimate FSD for hauling out logs once felled. Trees required for log
barriers should be coordinated with FSD. The used No trees should be buried under the earth.'For efficient
hauling of logs from the corridor FSD and PU must closely coordinate. Should private contractor be
awarded with construction contract the felling, bucking and hauling of logs from stump to depot can be
mandated to the same contractor by FSD and paid regular government rate.
5.1.6. Landscape and Environmental Aesthetics
Landslides could be a common cause in the region if not properly attended to given the steep terrain
conditions. Besides landslides there are also chances of creeping soil, sheet erosion, rill and gully. A
combination of engineering structures with bioengineering should be applied to mitigate identified
impacts. In order to select techniques of bioengineering, it is necessary to consider the engineering
functions (i.e. catch, armor, reinforce, anchor, support or drain) which is required in each site. Some of the
indicated bioengineering measures are dealt under:
Land Slides
July 1999                                  5-6



EA final report
* Stabilize slope with bio engineering measures such as, Brush Layer, Live Stacking, Brush Matting,
Seeding and Planting
* Construct surface and subsurface drains to prevent water from entering into the sliding area and drain
the catch water into nearby natural gully
* Construct retaining walls
Creeping Soil
It occurs in steep slopes:
* Construct surface drain at the crown of the creeping area to prevent water from entering into the area
* Apply live stacking
* Broadcast seeds of fast Growing plants (such as seeds of lemon grass)
Sheet erosion
The rain carries down the soil in steep slopes and over a period it will be all transported downhill leaving
an infiltration surface. This increases runoff and erosion.:The possible measures are:
* Seeding/planting grass and trees
* Wattle fencing and terracing
- Brush matting
Rill and Gully Erosion
Rills are formed due to irregularities of soil surface when the surface water runs down creating shallow
canals. When many rills join a gully is created. Gullies can trigger slope failures/landslides. The possible
bio engineering measures are:
i Construct rip-rap or grass sods
• Brush wattle
.  Brush fences
Planting/seeding of trees and grass
Vegetated palisades
Branch layering
The locally available species recommended for bio engineering are: seeds of cympobogan spp. (lemon
grass), branches of popular trees, branches of salix spp. (willow trees), seeds of Artimesia, Erythrina spp.
seeds as well as branches, branches of Viburnum spp. and etc.
To have a picturesque view it is suggested that all tree stumps from the road bank be removed and
vegetated. This will make the completed road look neat. The recommended finished side slope should be
as the following:
*  0.1:1 (horizontal : vertical) for hard rock
* 0.3:1 for ordinary rock
July 1999                                      5-7



EA final report
*  0.5:1 for hard soil
*  1:1 for ordinary soil
Quarries, spoil disposal and work force camps should be reclaimed using bio-engineering methods. To
enhance bio engineering the sites should be trimmed properly either manually or by machine. The
restoration should begin before construction party leaves the site and supervisor ensures that all is
acceptable.
5.1.7. Impacts on vegetation and wildlife
Impacts on vegetation and wildlife can be mitigated through:
*  controlled blasting operation and proper spoil disposal in case of heavy cut material
*  open road corridor to required width (can minimize opening by not cutting down slopes of
road head) ONLY
* in the interest of fish breeding in Kilung Chhu, don't throw spoil material into Kilung Chhu
directly
* advise labors for not poaching and monitor camps frequently
*  as area opens there will be resource (forest resources) use competition particular from other
region and FSD should monitor this activity
5.1.8. Impacts on Infrastructure and Support Services
The infrastructures that may be effected include: few permanent traditional houses and temporary huts,
electric transmission poles, and irrigation channels.
Most of the permanent traditional houses can be saved if enough breast walls are erected, water managed
as directed and slopes properly bio engineered. The electric transmission poles that need relocation is
involved within the first noted chainage. Should takeoff point priority I be chosen the impacts on these
transmission poles can drastically be reduced if not to zero impact.
The most significant impact resulting out of road construction would be on irrigation channels. If this
impact is not properly attended to the implementation might result in conflict with the locals. To mitigate
the impact it is crucial to involve the locals closely and come to a common understanding of the problem.
During construction temporary water pipes should be arranged and put in place (within the area of
influence) so that water continuity to their paddies is ensured. Permanent structures should replace
temporary water pipes as a pernanent measure to the problem.
5.1.9. Work Camp, Health and Sanitation
The location of the work should not be near the settlement area. Some suitable locations are already
mapped by the EA, however a few further locations might be necessary. Experience elsewhere in the
region has revealed that !abor camps are below standard. It is suggested that reasonable shelters should be
provided for the labors. The temporary shelters/dwellings for workers should be provided as per EA
July 1999                                   5-8



EA final report
Dakpai - Buli Road. Some camp locations have water shortages in which the camps are to be provided
with mobile water tanks.
Pit latrines and common garbage bins should be constructed compulsory in the camps and restored when
abandoned to keep the contagious diseases at the minimum. Oil and grease waste generating from
construction machines should be collected in proper containers and disposed off to a safer place.
As medical facilities in the region is limited it is suggested that the project be prepared with their own
medical setup. In the event of foreign labor import it is important that compulsory disease check-ups are
carried out right at the Bhutan entry point. This would prevent the mass spread of diseases to the illiterate
communities whom they come in contact with.
5.1.10. Occupational Health and Safety
It should be mandatory to equip construction workers with adequate safety gadgets such as helmets,
mouth respirator for drillers, handgloves, gumboots, goggles for drillers, ear protector, and red sugar
(molasses) for the driller. The site engineer responsible should monitor that workers put on safety gadgets
at all times until it becomes habit. First aid kits should be provided in all work sites. All likely
danger operations should be warned adequately to the co-workers and people nearby.
In case of accident compensation should be paid as per prevailing government rules depending
upon seriousness of the damage.
5.1.11. Strengthening of Institutional Capability
To implement the construction in a way that is less damaging to the environment it is crucial that the
engineers and operators of the DoR as well as construction company know about the environmentally
friendly construction. The stages where there are needs for capability building are:
*  Planning and surveying (with emphasis on best alignment fixation);
*  Design and layout in the field;
*  Construction and supervision (trained operators can make lot of positive impacts); and
*  Monitoring, reporting and providing feedback.
Key responsible engineers should be sent overseas for a short exposure to have a real feel of the
construction method. Others can be covered by technical assistance TA that is indispensable for this
project.
5.1.12. Social, Economic and cultural
5.1.12. 1 Land Expropriation and Compensation
Land expropriation can be segregated into two:
* Permanent for road right of way; and
*  Temporary (those under construction disturbance).
For the permanent expropriation there are of course other agencies to be involved but the most important
is the Lhuntse Dzongkhag administration and the DoR. The compensation should be made based on actual
measurements once the road Peg-line has been decided.
July 1999                                  5-9



EA final report
The temporary expropriations are required for Chuzhings at three different locations and work campsites.
Temporary compensations for Chuzhing should be based on the annual crop yield with manpower
involvement deducted. Similarly, this applies to work campsites.
The expropriation of land should be governed by the Land Act of Bhutan 1979 amended in 1998 and
compensation as per the approved Land Compensation Rate, 1996. It is noteworthy that the compensation
rates were derived with a consideration that rural people can afford to buy from the government as almost
all the registered land holdings are much beyond excess when measured physically. The Land
Compensation Rate, 1996 still holds up to date (adjustment formula to pay current compensation does not
take into account).
The summary of the Land Compensation Rates, 1996 applicable for this project is provided:
LAND COMPENSATION RATES, 1996
TYPE                RATES
Chuzhing           Nu. 35,000/acre
Kamzhing           Nu. 20,000/acre
Tseri              Nu. 5,000/acre
Tsamdo             Nu. 200/acre
There might involve expropriation for some traditional houses. In case a house is appropriated the
compensation should be based on valuation (based on the Bhutan Schedule of rates) carried out by the
District Engineer in the Dzongkhag representing the Urban Housing and Development Division, Ministry
of Communication.
Further, certain fruit trees may be involved in the process of construction. The compensation should
follow Annexure "C" and "D" of the Land Compensation rates, 1996.
5.1.12.2 Economic
There are significant positive opportunities that the project can stimulate to the local economy. As can be
seen from the baseline data that Dzongkhag has a number of petty contractors some basically remaining
idle. Within their capability it is recommended that the work preference be given to these contractors.
There is also scope of improving the local economy through the sale of farm products. The RNR extension
workers can play a crucial role to make this happen.
As the area gets opened up there are chances of creating resource use competition. Fuel wood could be an
important area, which needs careful attention.
5.1.12.3 Fuel Wood
The stretch particularly between 0+000 to 4+200 kmn, fuel wood is a major concern being a mainstay of
the communities. As the camping sites are recommended in this stretch it is likely that the work force can
effect the resources. The construction party should be equipped with their own cooking facilities. Beyond
this critical stretch fuel wood is abundant which can be obtained from the road corridor felling. This
should be properly hauled, stacked and supplied to the construction parties.
July 1999                                  5-10



EA final report
Since most of the land above Gangzur is scrub forest fuel wood plantation can be an appropriate solution
to improve the micro climate and fuel wood shortage problem.
5.1.12.4 Cultural Sites
As can be seen from the assessment of impacts the alignment encounters a number of cultural
sites/monuments. Shifting the road C-line towards slope side can save all of these monuments. The only
danger for these monument is related to dust pollution which is recommended to restore/paint after the
construction is completed.
5.1.13. Cost Estimates
An attempt for cost calculation is carried out for a comparison between traditional and environmental
friendly methods. It should be noted that calculation of cost may not be correct as standard output of
excavators are not available. In lieu of unavailable data the following assumptions are considered:
*  Excavator cut is 35% more expensive than dozer cut (EIA Dakpai - Buli Road)
*  By eliminating all box cuts, the reduction is 40% which arrives at 27.5m3/m
*  1 m shift of center line result in a cut reduction of 65% compared to full cut
*  in I m shift C-line 795 m (Length) x 2m (height) dry masonry toe wall is required in I km of road
*  for 2 m height wall top width as 0.6m and base 1.5m
*  Nu. 485.87 per m3 of dry wall plus 42% as cost index
*  Extemal environmental cost has not been considered
TABLE 5.1: COST ESTIMATION COMPARING BETWEEN TRADITIONAL CONSTRUCTION AND
ENVIRONEMNTAL FRIENDLY CONSTRUCTION METHOD (EFCM) PER KM
TRADITIONAL METHOD
Item   Explanation                                                   Av. Cost (Nu.) in
million
1.    Formation cutting of feeder road up to 5m width                1.361
2.    Providing base course                                           0.460
3.    Erecting permanent works4                                       0.286
4.    Maintenance cost per km in 20 year @ Nu. 10,7501km              0.215
Total cost per km in 20 year                                          2.322
5.    External cost i.e. damage of vegetation below road head through cut material  2.510
rolied down. For 1 km the volume comes to around 1739 m3 (1 000mx 45m
(downhill slope)) @ Nu. 40.86/cu.ft.
Including environmental cost the total cost (excluding landslides and frequent cost  7.154
involvement) in 20 year
ENVIRONMENTAL FRIENDLY METHOD
4'Construction and Maintenance Cell. DoR, 1999
July 1999                                   5-11



EA final report
1.     Formation cutting by excavators (30% more than Dozer cufting) with small  1.769
motor grader assisting
2.     Power chains, labor and blasting cost @200 per meter                 0.200
3.     Toe wall construction with Im shift C-line (2 m as wall height) about 1669 m3   1.150
@ Nu. 690/im3
4.     Breast wall required per km for Lhuntse situation will be about 15 @ Nu.  0.900
60,000/no.
5.     10 culverts per km @ 35000.00                                        0.350
6.     Cement concrete drain per km will cost                               0.200
7.     Base course remain same as traditional method                        0.460
8.     Bioengineerng including monitoring cost per Km                       0.100
9.     The maintenance cost (20 year) will remain very low say 1/3 of Nu. 0.215  0.072
Total cost in 20 year                                                       5.201
Note: as Dakpai - Buli Road is the first to follow EFCM, realistic cost estimates can be derived after it has completed some
kilometers.
5.1.14. Operation and Maintenance Code
As is the normal practice the maintenance during operation should be the responsibility of the
Lingmethang Maintenance Division with its sub-division located at Autsho. The maintenance should
follow the Environmental Code of Practice (ECP) that is under the draft form prepared under the
patronage of the World Bank and the Government of Netherlands.
5.2 IMPACT MONITORING PLAN
Monitoring is necessary for the following reasons:
* To see what impacts have occurred;
-  To ensure that the impacts are maintained at the levels predicted;
*  To ensure that the conditions of approval are adhered to; and
*  Benefits expected from the EA are achieved as the project proceeds.
The monitoring for road is not only foreseen during the construction period but also in the operation
period as poor maintenance in the later stage can also result in environmental havoc.
For e.g. clogged roadside drain can make runoff to spillover the road and often massive landslides are
triggered. The baseline data provided above should be used as a bench mark to base environmental
monitoring.
5.2.1. Construction Period Monitoring
The monitoring during this period can be taken in three different forms:
*    Routine monitoring and reporting;
*    Periodic monitoring by an external team; and
*    Monitoring by donor: project phase-wise evaluation as been formulated in the project.
July 1999                                       5-12



EA final report
5.2.1.1 Routine Monitoring
This will be carried out by the agency responsible for road construction i.e. if the construction is carried
out departmentally then DoR engineers are responsible for this activity. Should construction be carried out
by the private party in which case contractor are responsible. This monitoring can also be called internal
monitoring. The basic monitoring activities include keeping vigil for landslide areas and initiating
measures against it, see road drainage are not choked, prepare bio engineering plan, blasting operation and
etc. All the actions attended to should be documented, reported to the responsible authority and produced
on demand by an external monitoring team.
5.2.1.2 Periodic Monitoring
To carry out this monitoring an external team must be necessary. The indicated team members are:
construction site responsible DoR Engineer, NEC EA officer. Gups of Kurteo and Gangzur geogs,
District Engineer (DE) Lhuntse Dzongkhag, environmental consultant (to be identified by DoR or donor),
engineering geologist GSoB, and Forester FSD. It may be necessary to involve the affected people in the
monitoring activities through geog gups.
The Project Unit (PU), Rural Access Project should be responsible for initiation and mobilization of the
monitoring team. The consensus findings should be compiled and instructions be made to the construction
agency for corrective measures.
The budget for monitoring should be in built in the project cost. If bi-annual monitoring is not possible. at
least once a year must be mandatory during the monsoon period. Ad hoc monitoring may be called as the
situation dictates.
5.2.1.3 Phase-Wise Evaluation
This can be initiated by the donor depending upon the need and in accordance with the proiect document.
The evaluation team should be acceptable to all the parties concerned i.e. donors as well as RGoB. The
findings and specific recommendations of the mission should direct the project in a better way.
The indicated monitoring parameters provided in Table 5.2 is a guide for the monitoring team. It can be
used at various stages of monitoring.
July 1999                                  5-13



EA final report
TABLE 5.2: SUMMARY ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
ActivitylEnvironmental                Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities              Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern                                                                   l
A) Pre-construction Phase
1. Decision     on      takeoff  * DOR should coordinate with Division of Health to come to a  * Takeoff point decided  and  agreed  upon  by  relevant
alternative                    common understanding and agreement                          stakeholders
,No conflict
2.  Study  of route  alternative  * Two alignment alternatives should be thoroughly studied for  *  PU (Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road) to initiate the study
between Yuwa and Zhamling    best possibility and slope stability involving DOR engineers and  Indict
(12+900 - 22+450 Km)'         experienced geo-technical engineer
* Consultants mobilized and budget utilized
* Findings document and best alignment arrived
3.  Land    ac3uisition    and  * Compensate landowners for land (and trees or other crops)  * Project Unit (PU) to coordinate with Lhuntse Dzongkhag
compensation                   used for the road right of way. Process to be fully in accordance    Administration and be responsible and to manage the
with agreed policy and framework for land acquisition and    process and Lhuntse Dzongkhag should monitor:
compensation rate 1996.                                   * number of properties affected
* Make arrangements to compensate farmers for crop loss or
damages to trees                                          * accuracy of surveys of crops, etc.
* timeliness of payments (prior to construction on land
affected)
* number of complaints or appeals
4.  Slope stability investigation  * Detailed slope stability study to be carried out by geo-technical  * PU to initiate the study
before  reaching  the  road    engineer before alignment decision is made
terminal point
B) Construction Phase (incorporate mitigation actions into contract clauses and specifications)
Alignmenit alternative and slope stability is in tihe consinlCtion phase since this can be carried out when construction proceeds for the I 5' Km keep going.
2It is assumed that when former 10 km is tinder conistruction the geological investigations, alignment fixation aiid land compensation for the rest can be carried out
July 1999                                        5-14



EA Jinal report
ActivitylEnvironmental               Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities             Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern
1. Construction   code   and  * Use balance cut and fill method in side slopes less than 70% by  * Contractor engaged by PU should be responsible to comply
technology                   shifting C-line towards the valley (Im or 2m) or laying log    with the requirements and the compliance requirement must
barriers in woody areas                                   be included in the contract clause and PU should monitor
* Avoid box cuts to reduce cut material                   Indicators:
* Transport the spoil material in case of fragile downhill slope and  * Equipment on site
to save agricultural land/houses/other infrastructures below  *Less spoil rolling downhill
* Use recommended equipment viz. excavators, small dozer to
help level the road and formation cutting' in gentle slope to * Walls erected to shift C-line
achieve progress, pay loaders, air compressors, portable drilling  * Log barriers visible
machine, and power chainsaws.
* Less vegetation damage
a No complaint from locals
2. Blasting requirements       * Follow controlled blasting i.e. not over charging, execute charge  * Contractor engaged by PU should enforce the contractor to
calculation and safety operation                          comply by including in the contract clause and daily routine
to be carried out contractor's engineer and PU monitor that
* Employ qualified and experienced personnel in-charge of   action are implemented
explosive
Indicators:
* Use Power Gel 801, detonating cord, and relay detonators for
effective blasting                                       * No damage to surrounding vegetation and locals
* Incase of sensitive sites (e.g. cultural sites) explore other forms  * No complaints
of detonation such as: silent blasting, heating and cooling  .blasting operation maintenance register (includes charge
rapidly, and forcing rock splitting iron bars on drilled holes  calculations)
* Lay gabion wiremesh or bamboo mats over charged rocks to  *specific site
control fly rocks
* Commence the blasting operation from the crown of the slope
by benching and then gradually downward
* Warn the people in the vicinity about operation         __
July 1999                                       5-15



EA final report
Activity/Environmental                Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities              Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern
3. Water management             * Identify the sources of water (particularly spillover of paddy  * The contractor engaged by PU should be responsible and
water)  and tap it using catch water drain (surface or sub-    PU can facilitate contractor, Lhuntse Dzongkhag and locals
surface) and discharge into nearby natural gully            coordination
* PU should monitor
* Coordinate with Lhuntse Dzongkhag and locals when road  Indicators
intersects irrigation channels and provide cross drains to suit all  * No water entering into road influence area
parties
partie  a No landslide
Document the understandings made and future responsibilities
* No conflict with the locals
* Construct V-shaped drains both in earth and rocky section
* Work progress
* For efficient surface discharge construct cross drain after every
100m interval and draw discharge into natural gully
4. Right of way felled timber  * Coordinate with FSD to mark trees and hauling of logs       * PU to coordinate with trees marking and intimation to FSD
management                                                                                for hauling
* For efficient timber management same contractor can be  Indicators:
awarded with felling, debucking and hauling of logs along the
corridor (stump to depot contract system as practiced by FDC)    * No logs buried
* No work progress hindrance
5. Landscape              and  * Maintain finished side slopes/batter as 0.01: 1 (H:V) for hard  *   PU  should make the contractor to comply with the
environmental aesthetics      rock, 0.3:1 for ordinary rock, 0.5:1 for hard soil and 1: 1 for   environmental conditions as included  in the  contract
ordinary soil                                               document
* Quarries                    o                                                            PU  should monitor the actions implemented and  PU
* Bioengineer bare slopes (refer interim bioengineering measures    engineers should be satisfied with quarries reclamation
* Spoil disposal              prepared by John Howell for Division of Roads, June 1999     before issuing work completion certificate to the contractor
* Identify quarries involving geo-technical expert and local people Indicators:
* Locate quarries away from the road head through approach  * Slopes stable and erosion not observed
roads                                                     * Quarries identified involving suggested team members
* Operate quarries from the crown of the slope and spray water  * Quarries located with approach road
incase of significant dust pollution
* No dust pollution
* Reclaim  quarries through site dressing and plantation of
vegetation                                                * No accident
* No complaint from locals
July 1999                                        5-16



EA final report
Activity/Environmental               Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities             Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern
6. Impacts on vegetation and  * Controlled blasting operation and proper spoil disposal in case  * PU should make contractor comply with the requirements for
wildlife                     of heavy cut material                                      road corridor opening and spoil disposal in designated sites
(identify site for spoil disposal by PU)
* Opening road corridor to the required width to only     * PU  should coordinate with FSD  staff in the Lhuntse
. Don't throw spoil material into Kilung Chhu to save fish breeding    Dzongkhag to make awareness of wildlife disturbance and
monitoring of poaching
* Advise labors and monitor camps for poaching            Indicators:
* Spoil disposed in designated sites
* Availability of fishes in Kilung Chhu
* Workers imparted with awareness on wildlife poaching and
consequences
7. Impacts on infrastructure and  * Coordinate with Division of Power (DOP) on relocation of * PU should coordinate closely with DOP, Lhuntse Dzongkhag
support services             existing power transmission poles                          and locals to arrive at common understanding on existing
infrastructure
* Use controlled  blasting and work operation in stretches  * PU should enforce contractor for compliance by including in
encountering houses and erect retaining/breast walls to save   the contract agreement
permanent houses located above road                     Indicators:
* Bioengineer slopes between retaining wall and exiting house  * All institutions coordinated
* Coordinate with locals and compensate if houses need  * No complaint
relocation (compensation should be based on recent estimates
carried jointly by PU and Lhuntse Dzongkhag district engineer)    * No landslide
* Coordinate with locals to arrive at amicable irrigation water
problems and provide cross drains (temporary during
construction and substituted later by permanent structures) not
to interrupt e irrigation water continuity with the best location
discussed with the locals
July 1999                                       5-17



EA final report
Activity/Environmental                 Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities               Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern
8. Work  camp,  health  and  * Locate work camps away from local settlement areas in close  * PU to ensure that labors are provided with reasonable
sanitation                     coordination with the locals                                 shelters and other facilities as agreed in the contract
document
* Provided shelters for labor as recommended for Dakpai - Buli  Indicators:
road
* Prescribed shelters and pit latrines for labors erected
* Water shortage camps should be provided with mobile water
tanks                                                      * Work camps free from garbage and pollution
* Pit latrines and common garbage bins should be constructed in  * No spillover of oil and grease
all work camps (dust collected in the bins should be burned  e No complaint from the locals
safely or transported to safe places)
* Equip camps with medical facilities
* Oil and grease should be collected and transported to safe
places
Import of foreign labors should under go compulsory medical
check-ups
* Provided land compensation to the locals
* Reclaim all work camp sites once abandoned through dressing
and plantation
9. Occupation health and safety   * Equip the construction workers with safety gadgets viz.:  * PU should ensure that contractor provide labors with safety
helmets, mouth respirator for drillers, handgloves, gumboots,    gadgets and comply with other requirements
goggles, and ear protectors                                Indicators:
* The site engineers should ensure that labors make habit of  * No accident
wearing at all times during work                           * Better performance of work
* Provide first aid kits                                     * Labors put on safety gadgets
I _______________________________  * Compensate as per rule incase of accident             * Accident victim compensated
July 1999                                         5-18



EA final report
Activity/Environmental                Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities             Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern
10. Strengthening of institutional  * Request TA to strengthen the weak institutional capability of * PU should initiate the capability building and involve key
capability                    DOR viz: planning and surveying, design and layout alignment   engineers including DOR as well as contractors
in the field, training of supervisors and operators (most  Indicators:
important) and monitoring, reporting and implementing actions.   * Engineers received training
Involve contractroftheprojectnthetriningEngineers follow the environmental codes of construction
* Involve contractor of the project in the training        * Environmental stwuctures implemented and visible
e Key engineers of DOR and contractor should be sent for * Spoil disposed off safe places
overseas exposure in environmental friendly construction
method and technology
11. Social,  economic   and
cultural considerations
i)     Permanent          and    Shdl  osrcintmn  oaoddmgst oa  rp
temporary Land acquisition                                                                 U Schedule construction timing to avoid  am s  c al c   * p  to initiate in close coordination with Lhuntse Dzongkhag
(permanent land acquisition   that might involve temporary land acquisition and compensation  Administration
dealt in section A.3. of this  * Compensate for crop damages based on annual harvest/yield    * Dzongkhag (respective gup) to monitor on acquisition and
table)                                                                                   compensation
* Temporary  sites  acquired  for work  camps  should  be  Indicators:
compensated as per land compensation rate, 1996          * People are compensated
a No complaints from the locals
* Project made progress
ii)     Economic                * Petty work such as small wall construction and bioengineering  * PU should avail opportunities of works to locals and even
stuffs can be awarded to locals                            incase of work awarded to one contractor (petty contractors
can get sub-contract)
* Open outlets for farm product sale                       Indicators:
* Local petty contractors should be encouraged to participate in     Local petty contractors build confidence in work
the project                                              * Purchasing power of locals increased
* FSD should control forest resource use competition as area gets
opened  up                             .____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ ______._._._-_
July 1999                                       5-19



EA final report
Activity/Environmental              Mitigation Measures & Responsibilities             Monitoring Actions, Indicators and Responsibilities
Parameter of Concern
iii)    Fuelwood               - Between stretch 0+000 - 4+200 Km the construction party  * The contract should include this condition and PU in close
should be prepared with cooking energy                   coordination with FST staff Lhuntse Dzongkhag should
enforce and monitor
* Beyond this chainage fuelwood can be obtained from the road  Indicators:
corridor clearing (fuelwood should limit to road corridor clearing  * No complaint from the locals
and centralize the supply to labors)                   * Fuelwood stacks not visible in the labor camps
* Labors should not be allowed to collect fuelwood in the natural
forest
iv)    Cultural sites          * Shift the road center-line either towards valley side or towards  * The contractor should comply the requirements to retain the
slope side to save the religious monuments and disposing off   monuments and restore
spoil material (it is feasible by shifting C-line)  .    PU and Lhuntse Dzongkhag/locals should monitor
Indicators:
* Blasting should be carried out controlled method       * The monuments exist
* Paint/restore once road is constructed                 * Paintingslrestorations carried out
C) Operation and maintenance * Follow Environmental Codes of Practice (draft form). DOR which has section for road operation and
phase                        maintenance
July 1999                                      5-20



EA Final Report
TABLE 5.3: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PARAMETERS
Environ.  Criteria           |Indicator| Data collection source and method
Bank Stability       Erosion, landslide          Monitor areas requiring slope stability
Water suppiy and     Coliform bacteria and human    Sampling of water sources
sanitation          diseases (this needs to
establish baseline data)
Water management,   Proper and adequate          observations
drainage and erosion   structures put in place and
support structures  functioning of drainage
systems.
_n       Waste management   Management practices,         Observation
and disposal        storage and disposal locations
Oil and grease      Management practices,       observation
management          storage and disposal locations
Quarry site         Operation code followed,    observation
management          rehabilitation plan carried.
Blasting operations    Damages in the surroundings,  Observation and record maintained
mishap reports, and code
followed.
.       Pressure on forest   Fuelwood collection         Observation in construction camps
Reduce forest cover        Interviewing locals
X~                                                        Observation in the site
O        Pressure on wildlife    Decrease in number of wildlife  Sample survey during and after
LI)                                                       construction;
0
Xi                 .Monitoring of leopard and python.
0
Interviewing locals
Bioengineering      Survival rates               Sampling species
observation
-J       Proper compensation   Land/cash                  Project record;
Interviewing locals
0
Employment           No. of jobs created         Survey of local area
Environ.  Criteria            Indicator                    Data collection source and method
Living standards     Housing                     Information from Dzongkhag
Assets               .      administration
Labor activity             interviewing locals
Water supply                observations
Indirect social benefit  Education               Survey and information from
O                             Health                      Dzongkhag
Economic benefits    Trade and business          Information from Dzongkhag
Interviewing locals
observations
Culture              Cultural interaction        Observation
July 1999                                      5-21



EA Final Report
The parameters provided above should be monitored with new listed included if deemed necessary.
5.2.2. Operation Phase Monitoring
To upkeep the road open for traffic at all times and in a manner that is environmentally pleasing
monitoring during the operation phase is also equally important. The monitoring can take in two different
forms:
* Routine maintenance monitoring
* Periodic maintenance monitoring
5.2.2.1 Routine Maintenance Monitoring
This will be carried out by the Section Officer in-charge of Lhuntse-Dungkhar road on a routine basis. The
actions needed for problem areas can be reported to Lingmethang Maintenance Division.
The areas of monitoring are:
* Drainage system and its adequacy
• Landslides and other similar problem areas
*  Road surface and quality including operation and maintenance performance in terms of inputs (labor,
materials, equipment) and frequency
* The impairing of other support services due to the road
* The suitability of bio engineering and measures survival rates
e Resource use conflicts
* Etc.
5.2.2.2 Specific Maintenance Monitoring
Specific maintenance monitoring is required ONLY when site condition demands. The request for
monitoring may probably come from Lhuntse Dzongkhag supported with areas that need monitoring
attention. This can be called ad hoc monitoring. In any case it should be a practice to monitor the road
once annually as a new move to efficient environmental management. The budget for monitoring should
be included in the road maintenance cost.
The indicated team members would be:
*  Engineer, Construction and Maintenance Cell, DoR
* EA Officer, NEC
*  District Engineer, Lhuntse Dzongkhag
*  Gups Gangzur and Kurteo geog
Lhuntse Dzongkhag should be initiating the program and mobilizing the team. Consensus findings should
be compiled by the Dzongkhag and submitted to the DoR for corrective action.
July 1999                                 5-22



EA Final Report
5.3 CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusion
*  overall the proposed project does not cause any significant negative impacts on the physical,
biological and social environment that needs serious attention
*  it does not conflict with any of the Bhutan's declared protected areas or areas worth of protection
* protected wildlife species that is of international and national significance are not recorded in the area
during survey nor reported by the locals when interviewed
*  the project can bring ample positive impacts to the region particularly to the quality of life
improvement through education, better medical facilities, direct cash income, and accessibility to
foreign construction and cooking resources.
*  there are opportunities to mitigate whatever marginal negative impacts assessed which is a good
indication of advancing the project implementation
Recommendations
The recommendations provided below applies for this proposal and for future projects:
*  the project formulation should incorporate the findings and recommendations of EA and must include
the EMP in the contract document as a binding clause;
*  as the area is suitable for engaging two parties for construction at a time due to accessibility it is
recommended that DOR should carry out part construction besides employing private contractor. This
provides good opportunity for DOR to experience the cost of construction engaging excavators;
* the road takeoff alternative needs DOR to have close coordination with DOH;
*  the DOP have to be informed and coordinated with regard to relocation of some of the existing
electric transmission poles intersecting with road alignment;
*  FSD should be coordinated with hauling of logs obtained from road corridor clearing;
land/property expropriation compensation should be coordinated closely with Lhuntse Dzongkhag
Administration;
*  detailed slope stability study is required by geo-technical engineer between Yuwa and Zhamling
(12+900 - 22+450km) to consider EA recommended alignment alternatives;
*  also detailed slope stability study is must before reaching road terminal point (Dungkhar Nagtsang);
*  design the road along the natural contours as the traffic intensity is low; and
Adopt the following during road planning, feasibility and design stages:
* the desk study planning should be based on the following:
*  procure topographical map of 1:25,000 scale with 1 Om contour interval;
*  geo-technical assessment by aerial photographs should help the tracing of road alignment in the map.
- Feasibility stage (fixing alignment) is what can be considered the most crucial where preventive
measures can prove effective. Incorporate the following in considering this work:
e  involve better qualified engineers (DoR), EA consultant, and engineering geologist to arrive at the
best route alternative;
July 1999                                  5-23



EA Final Report
*  spend at least 20 days (field work only) for approximately 35 km;
*  use simple instruments viz. pedometer, GPS, clinometer and ready made paints (different colors) to
fix different route alternatives; and
*  mark the alignment on trees or other structures to enable the EA and survey team to execute better
assessments after this stage of work.
July 1999                                     5-24



Annex I
Bibliography:
1. Biodiversity Action Plan, for Bhutan, 1998
2. Report on Preinvestment Survey of Forest Resources in North Western Bhutan,
Volume II, Methodology, Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, Government of
India, 1976
3. Blasting Manual. Public Works Department, Ministry of Social Services, Royal
Government of Bhutan, prepared by Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
(SMEC)/ADB - no date
4. Field Manual of Road Maintenance. PWD, MOSS, RGOB, prepared by SMEC/ADB
- no date
5. Road Design Manual, PWD, MOSS, RGOB, prepared by SMEC/ADB
6. Eighth Five Year Plan (1997 - 2002), Vol. I Main Document, Ministry of Planning,
RGOB
7. Eighth Five Year Plan (1997-2002) Vol.11 Project Profiles, Ministry of Planning,
RGOB
8. John Howell, June 1999, Bioengineering for the road sector, Rural Access Project,
DOR. Ministry of Communications, Thimphu, Bhutan
9. Land Act of Bhutan, 1979 (amended in 1998)
10. Land compensation rate, 1996, Ministry of Home Affairs, Thimphu, Bhutan
11. Institutionalizing and Strengthening. of the Environrmental Assessment Process in
Bhutan (reference document). February 1999, NEC, Thimphu, Bhutan
12. Highways and Roads, Bhutanese Environmental Assessment Sectoral Guidelines,
February 1999. NEC, Thimphu, Bhutan
13. Environmental Impact Assessment, February 1998, Dakpai - Buli Road. ISDP,
Zhemgang.
14. Forest and Nature Conservation Act of Bhutan, 1995
15. Augusto Gansser. 1983. Geology of the Bhutan Himaiaya
16. Draft, Environmental and socio-economic impact assessment report, November 1998,
MangdeChhu Hydroelectric Project, Feasibility Study, Division of Power, Ministry of
Trade and Industry, RGOB
Page 1 of 2



Annex I
17. Atlas of Bhutan, 1:250,000, land cover & area statistics of 20 dzongkhags, Land Use
Planning Project, Ministry of Agriculture, RGOB
18. A.M.Cowan and J.M. Cowan, 1979, Trees of Northern Bengal
19. A.J. Gierson and Long, 1983, Flora of Bhutan vol. I, II, III
20. Olek Polunin and Adam stainton, 1994, Flowers of the Himalaya
21. Flaming and Flaming, _, Birds of Nepal
22. K.D.Charnling and M.Pushparaja, 1993, Forest Management Plan, Korila, Bhutan
Page 2 of 2



Annex 2
Terms of Reference(ToR)
Environment Impact Assessment(EIA) for the construction of Lhuntse-Dungkhar road
under Lhuntse Dzongkhag.
1.    Background
Construction of approximately 37 km of feeder road connecting Lhuntse wvith Dungkhar is proposed
during the 8th Five Year Plan of Lhuntse Dzongkhag. Division of Roads (DoR), under the Ministry
of Conrnunications(MoC), has the responsibility for road construction and maintenance in Bhutan
and will also be the executing -agency for the Lhuntse-Dungkhar road. The cost of constructing this
road is proposed under the Rural Access Project to be funded by the World Bank. The prerequisite
for funding under the World Bank Assistance is Environmental Impact Assessment(EIA) of such
road construction.
The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) has given the mandate to the National Environment
Commission (NEC) to review and assess the need for environrmental impact assessment in relation
to development projects and to scope the EIA. Bhutan's fragile mountainous environrnent with its
rich biological diversity and its unique culture and religious background makes it imperative to carry
out EIAs for any major development projects.
The main purposes of the EIA are to reveal positive and negative environmental consequences of
the project to decision-makers and other interested parties, and to provide environmental background
information that makes it possible to design, construct and operate the road in an environmentally
sound way. The EIA takes place concurrently with technical and economic feasibility studies of the
project, and in an iterative interaction with these studies in order to make it possible to incorporate
environrmental considerations equally with technical and economic aspects. Thus, EIA is considered
a flexible and transparent tool for ensuring environmentally sound development.
DoR will be responsible for the execution of the EIA, whereas the EIA will be retroactively financed
by the World Bank subject to following the IDA guidelines.
The EIA should address the proposed road project as well as potential alternatives. The alternatives
could include alternative transport modes, alternative alignmnents and alternative designs.
2.    Project Objectives
The objectives of the proposed road project is to improve rural access to some of the remotest
villages in the country thereby improving the socio-economic status of the rural population of
Gangzur and Dungkhar Geogs consisting of a population of over 4000 people by providing direct
and indirect benefit to the rural communities. The distance of villages like Nye and Shawa under
Gangzur Geog from Lhuntse wvhich is a day's walk could be reduced to merely 3 hours from the
proposed road.
1



3.    Project Description
The construction of the Lhuntse-Dungkhar road will be executed by the DoR departmentally and/or
through contracts. Of the three altemative alignments studied the alignment which is 37 Km has
been selected based on socio-economic and technical considerations.The selected alignment requires
construction of a 45 metres span bridge over Kurichu and another over Kilungchu having a span of
10 metres. The road alignment passes through an area of loose soil for about 12.5 Kin, in hard soil
for about 18 Km and in hard rock for about 6.5 Km. The proposed road alignment takes off from a
bend on the Mongar-Lhuntse road near the new hospital(under construction) about 1.5 Km below
Lhuntse Dzong. A box cut of about 8 metres depth may have to be done just after 250 metres from
the take off point to avoid possible damage to an old chorten (Tabub Choedten). Two hairpin bends
are required in order to safeguard a mini hydropower station at Gangzur which is under renovation
at the moment. The alignment then follows the road constructed by the Power Division which
terminates at Nongma chorten. New fornation cutting for about 1.85 km has to be carried out from
the take off point and remaining 4.65 km of power road has to be improved and upgraded to feeder
road standard.
In view of the proposed Hydropower project at Thimyul and unavailability Qf a suitable bridge site,
the alignment has to necessarily continue till Yuwa, a village lying southwest of Tsholing village.
A bridge is required to be constructed over Kurichu below Yuwa. After crossing Kurichu, the
alignment continues at an ascending gradient and eventually connects Rotoa with three zigs. The
alignment then passes through Shamling village and termninates at Dungkhar. Minor landslides has
been observed at two stretches along the road alignment before reaching Dungkhar.
(Refer Project IUap at the annex)
4.    Project Benefits
The expected benefits from the project are as follows:
The construction of this road is expected to benefit 533 households under 61 villages of Dungkhar
and Gangzor geogs. It will provide the necessary access for marketing of agricultural products and
reduce the transportation costs of imported goods for rural people. The extension services withi;n the
Dzongkhag will be enhanced as a result of improved communication. Further, it will facilitate other
development activities in the Dzongkhag by improved transportation system. It will encourage the
people to produce more cash crops, vegetables, and even surplus food, which could be marketed
outside their gewogs. It will reduce the post harvest losses, middle men business activities, and
improve the quality of cash crops.
In brief, the overall benefit after construction of the Lhuntse-Dungkhar road will be the upliftment
of the rural population for educational status, medical facilities, improvement of the living standard,
and outlet facilities etc.
2



5.    Scope of Work
The ToR for the Lhuntse-Dungkhar road have been prepared to meet the needs for an EIA and
mitigation plan which are in agreement with the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines for
Bhutn493.                                                           -
The impact assessment should identify, describe and assess potentially significant. adverse and
beneficial environmental impacts of the road project and necessary activities imposed by the project,
such as extraction of construction materials, disposal of excess materials and establishment of labors'
camps. The impact assessment should cover the construction period as well as the operation period.
The impacts of various altematives should be compared and assessed against the situation of not
implementing the project, that is the do-nothing alternative.
The mitigation plan should identify a set of responses to potentially adverse environmental impacts;
determine requirements for ensuring that those responses are made in an effective and timely
manner; and describe the means of meeting those requirements. Emphasis should be given to roles
and responsibilities of agencies charged with implementing, mitigation and monitoring, that is who
is going to do the work and pay for it?
5.1   Public Consultation and Disclosure.
Groups potentially affected by the project shall play a role in identifying issues and ensuring that
local knowledge and values are understood and taken into account. Public opinions should be taken
into consideration when choosing between alternatives, when deciding on the relative importance
of issues, and when developing mitigation plans. However, the affected communities may need
assistance to fully understand the project proposal, altematives, potential impacts, the environmental
assessment process, and articulating their concerns.
Therefore, at the start of the EIA process the EIA team should determine the most appropriate way
of (i) informing the conmnunities of the project proposal, (ii) obtaining the communities views and
opinions, and (iii) disclosing the results of the EIA process, including the proposed mitigation and
monitoring actions, to the communities concerned. One possible way of involving the affected
groups could be through the Gewog Yargye Tshogshung (GYT) while dzongkhag officials, gups,
chimis and tshogpas could act as facilitators. Summary information on the project and the EIA
should be displayed in public at the gewog and dzongkhag levels. The conduct and the results of
the public consultation process and the manner of disclosure shall be summarized in the EIA report,
including the executive summary.
5.2   Identification and Assessment of Impacts.
Identification, description and assessment of environmental impacts should be based on observations
from field investigations covering land use, topography, geology, flora and fauna in the study area
that may contain environmental issues relating to the project. The field observations should be
supplemented with various baseline data (maps, aerial photos, reports, scientific literature etc.), for
example from the Land Use Planning. Project (LUPP) under the Ministry of Agriculture. The
3



assessment should cover both the proposed project and altematives that have been considered,
including the do-nothing altemative. It should include, but not necessarily be limited to the
following aspects:
*     Land use with particular emphasis on critical watershed areas, loss of agricultural land,
replacement of settlements, and loss of ecologically valuable areas.
*     Topography
*     Landscape and environmental aesthetics.
*     Geology, hydrogeology and hydrology with special regard to soil erosion and landslides.
Possible sites of landslides due to loose soil and landslide prone areas should be mapped.
Planned earth movements should be described. Will downstream water bodies be impaired
by siltation or by polluted run-off water from the road?
*     Existing land and water rights should be included, as well as existing irrigation canals and
their command areas.
e     Ecology, flora and fauna, including a description of biotopes w%ith relevant lists of flora and
fauna. Number of trees required to be logged along with species, and, if possible, the
approximate quantity in cubic meter/feet.
*     Protected areas. Will the road project affect protected areas, nature reserves or sanctuaries?
Historical, cultural and religious areas and monuments.
*     Occupational health and safety during construction and maintenance.
X     Construction camps and work sites.
*     Socio-economy. What are the expected intentional and unintentional induced development
resulting from the road?. Does the road provide for reasonably equitable service to rural
residents? With respect to possible displacement of people, are provisions for property
compensation and rehabilitation reasonably fair?
Consequences for existing development projects, such as possible siltation that may affect
the existing micro-hydel plant.
*     Resource demands.
*     Impacts of traffic, based on an estimate of vehicle frequency.
*     Vibrations from blasting.
4



Easier extraction and removal of logs for commercial purposes once road is built,
Overgrazing by cattle without regulation on steep slopes in the vicinity of road wvith negative
impacts on slopes and drains,
Increased soil runoff, and potential for increased incidence of fires which further augment
the runoff and erosion and reduce soil moisture retention thereby increasing the seasonality
of stream and river flows.
NOTE: All identified significant direct and indirect impacts sholuld be covered by mitigation plans
and actions, including monitoring measures.
5.3    Comparison of Alternatives
Based on an assessment of impacts, the environmental advantages and disadvantages of project
alternatives should be compared, and alternatives should be ranked environmentally. Comparisons
should relate to the do-nothing alternative, and to the greatest possible extent, the impacts should be
presented in quantitative terms. Permanent effects should generally be considered more critical than
temporary, and impacts that cannot easily be mitigated should similarly be considered more critical
than impacts that can easily and for economical costs be mitigated.
Assessment and ranking of alternatives considering environmental advantages and disadvantages
should also be applied to the alternative routes and alignments which are usually examined in the
early design stages. These considerations should be documented in the EIA report.
5.4   Mlitiaation Plan
Based on the findings of the above evaluation, a mitigation plan should be prepared. The mitigation
plan should describe in detail mitigation actions needed, estimate their costs, staffing needs, and
timing for corrective measures and actions. Roles and responsibilities in relation to the actions
needed should be specified in detail.
The mitigation plan should specifically include
a)    Technical Mitigation Measures.
Technical measures that are, or could be, incorporated into project design and construction
phases to eliminate or reduce adverse environmental impacts should be identified and
described in general terms. Description and technical details should be presented for each
suggested mitigation measure, including cost estimates, staffing needs, and timing for
corrective measures and actions. The level of detail of the technical description should be
approximately that of a preliminary desigh. The following aspects should be specifically
addressed
5



Construction technology,
Need for blasting,
Drainage system alongside the road,
Types of retaining walls in major landslide prone areas, or any other alternatives for
stabilising slopes,
Provision for culverts or larger drainage systems for the monsoon season,
Temporary disposal of fertile top-soil to be reserved for reclamation,
Establishment of native shrubs/trees for further prevention of landslides above and
below the road,
Land tenure, land use rights and land values,
Raw material extraction, handling, storage and transportation,
Disposal of excess material from construction works,
Reclamation plan for the roadside, left quarries and disposal sites.
b)    Environment Management Plan for the Construction Phase.
A draft environmental management plan for construction activities should be prepared with
the purpose of incorporation of environmental terms and conditions into the road
construction Tender Documents. The management plan should cover all aspects of road
construction, and responsibilities should be assigned, including responsibilities for mitigation
operations, emergency response procedures, supervision, financing, monitoring and
reporting. Institutional capacity for implementing the plan should be reviewed and training
needs assessed. Special attention should be paid to the following issues:
-     Implementation of technical mitigation measured
-     Occupational health and safety issues, including labors' camps and work sites.
-     Waste management, water supply, traffic, housing and services for labors.
-     Possible spills or accidents resulting from use of hazardous materials such as in
blasting.
-     Response actions in case of accidents or unforeseen events.
c)    Operation and MIaintenance Plan.
A draft operation and maintenance plan-or a code of maintenance practice-should be
prepared. The plan/code or practice should describe maintenance procedures and assign
responsibilities in relation to regular maintenance, emergency response actions, supervision,
financing, monitoring and reporting. Institutional capacity for implementing the plan should
be reviewed and training needs assessed.
d)    Environmental Mvlonitoring.
A monitoring programme covering the construction phase as well as the operation phase of
the road should be prepared, including assignment of responsibilities and an implementation
schedule. The monitoring programme should make sure, that the proposed mitigation plan
are implemented by the agencies or companies that are in charge of road construction and
6



road maintenance.
e)    Environmental Training.
An implementation plan for environmental training of planners, designers and road workers
should be prepared in accordance w ith the findings of the training needs assessment.
f)    Estimated Costs.
The costs and/or savings from the proposed mitigation plan should be estimated. (In a
number of instances, the maintenance costs of not construction proper retention walls and
road drainage systems will exceed the investment costs of these constructions. Hence, in a
long termn prospect, such mitigation measures result in net savings).
(g)   In addition to mitigation plan, a monitoring plan shall be drawn up setting out the functions,
roles and responsibilities for monitoring the implementation of the mitigation action. Clear
and simple monitoring reporting formats and indicators shall be prepared, reasonable
monitoring frequencies set, and a budget shall be estimated for any additional costs of
monitoring.
6.    Report Format
The EIA report should include a non-technical executive summary and a technical part supplemented
with relevant annexes.
6.1   Executive Summary
The EIA report should include a precise, non-technical description of significant findings and
recommendations, including (reference to) relevant maps, photos and figures.
6.2   Technical EIA Report
The technical component of the EIA report should include the following sections:
a)    Project Description.
The project description should cover both the proposed project and altematives considered. The
description should be at a level of detail that provides adequate background informnation for
comparison and rank-ing of project alternatives. At a minimum, the project description should
include the followving information:
Location of the road.
Length and width of the road.
Brief summary of topography (slope gradient), geology and land use along the proposed
7



route.
-     Technical design of the road. Special attention should be paid to road drainage and to
supporting structures to safeguard against spil erosion and landslides.
-     Accessory constructions and activities (quarries, disposal of excess material, temporary
roads, workers' camps etc.)
-     Resource demands.
-     Construction Plan, including construction-technology.
b)    Review of Policy and Legislative Framework.
This section should review the policy and legislative frarnework relating to the project.
c)    Baseline Information.
This section should contain a description of the existing environment situation based on field
investigations complemented with available literature, maps, etc. Quantification should be
made whenever possible. Documentation from the field investigations should be presented
here or be put into an annex of the report.
d)    Assessment of Impacts.
. This section should describe and assess significant potential environmental impacts of the
proposed project and project alternatives.
e)    Comparison of Alternatives.
This section should compare and rank project altematives.
f)    Mlitigation Plan.
This section should present a mitigation plan uith fundings and recommendations based on
the impact assessment.
7.    Reporting and Timing
A draft report should be prepared by the proponent and to be reviewed by the DoR, the NEC,
the GYT, the DYT and possibly other relevant institutions to be selected by the NEC.
Six copies of the draft final report should be submitted to the NEC for comments and
approval by the NEC not later than two w eeks after the completion of the review of the draft
report. Similarly four copies sho.uld be submitted to DoR for comments.
The NEC will submit its comments to the DoR within two week after receipt of the draft
final report.
I
1.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8



Ten copies of the final report should be submitted to the NEC not later than three weeks after
receipt of comments from the NEC on the draft final report. Similarly, ten copies should be
submitted to DoR.
8.    Background Information
Background Information from Lhuntse Dzonckhag:
*     Sth Five Year Plan Document.
Background Information from the NEC:
Environment Impact Assessment Guidelines for Bhutan, National Environrnent Commission,
1993.
9






Annex 3
1. Introduction
Though Public consultation has been much versed in the NEC guidelines it was further
emphasized by the World Bank Mission (IDA Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire February 26,
1999) of its importance.
The comments of the World Bank have been relayed through the Terms of Reference of EA. The
consultation with the affected people was held at the time when the physical environment
assessment was carried out. Prior to the consultation the EA Team leader convened a meeting
with Dasho Dzongdag, Lhuntse. The logistics required during consultation were arranged and
information on the EA program to be relayed to the concerned villages was requested. Dasho
provided sensible insights that helped the EA team to conduct assessments and consultation
fruitfully.
2. Program for consultation
Day 1:  Gangzur
Day 2:  Kilung and Nimshong
Day 3:  Lingabey
Day 4:  Rotpa, Tshrima, Shawa, Khaochung, and Zhamling
Day 5:  Dungkhar and Tabi
3. Methodology
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) involving all the attendance in the discussion. Individual key
stakeholders were identified and interviewed for soliciting their views and opinions expressed by
others.
The consultation was made informal so that the rural people felt easy to express their views.
Gups, Mangiapps and Tshogpas were well briefed prior to consultation so that they facilitated the
consultation smoothly.
4. Proceedings and record of consultation
Day 1: Gangzur
Attendance: 14 HH (8 women: 6 men)
Others present were:
*  Gup. Gangzur Geog
*  Tshogpa, Gangzur
*  Karma Jimba (EA Team Leader)
*  Kamal Dan Chamling ( EA biologist)
*  Lhakpa Sherpa (DoR, Survey Team Leader)
The Gup (Sonam Phuntsho) opened the consultation by introducing the guests and relating the
purpose of discussion.
KARMA Jimba. EA Team Leader addressed the gathering
1



Annex 3
We are here with you to consult the Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road. This is a relatively new approach
as in the past, people were not consulted for development project under taken in their geogs. The
situation is different now as the government and the people work hand in hand for the greater
benefit of both people and the government. This consultation is important as it can influence the
project implementation modality if adverse impacts are considerable. However, such a
consultation can only be successful if the people speak their minds freely. As the project covers
your geogs, only you can tell us the exact problems or benefits accruing from it. Decisions
involving your paddy field, pastureland, and even your houses should not be left to us as you
know what is in your best interest.
Karma said positive as well as negative aspects associated with the project such as expropriation
of their agricultural field, sound pollution, pristine vegetation, even houses at some point, cultural
conflict with the foreign labors, impacts on their services as number of people pour in the project
site. And views were invited from the gathering.
In response Yeshy Dorji said, project execution does not happen in isolation, certain riddles are
bound to outcrop but when considering the benefits the little negative impacts should not really
matter to them. The others supported the statement.
Kunzang Pemo of Gangzur said, road cut material rolling down could make her paddy cultivation
(about 4 acre) impossible during construction period and requested the EA team to look into the
matter.
Karma Jimba then introduced feulwood issues and the impacts that the workforce might create on
them. To this Sonam Phuntsho replied that fuelwood is an issue for the Gangzur people and a
back load of fuelwood to reach their home takes at least 6 hour. The workforce should not be
allowed to collect the fuelwood in their site. Said Sonam Phuntsho.
Then Karma Jimba touched -upon labor camp setups and locations. To this a lady said that their
camps should be located fairly away from the local communities as cultural conflicts might occur
particularly with beliefs and daily doings.
Another villager said that if the road hits their house there should compensation as it is expensive
to build a house. He further added that sound pollution is not foreseen as a problem and with
blasting operation they should give a prior warning. Said the villager.
Having no other expressions to hear from the people Karma Jimba concluded the session with
thanks for a successful discussion. He also thanked the people for their valuable time spent with
the EA team.
2



Annex 3
l.&
-        ~~~4
tk~~~~f,
'1~~~                                                        Z
CONSULTATION WITH GANGZUR PEOPLE
5. Day 2:    Kilung and Nimshong
Attendance: 5 HH (2 women: 3 men)
Others present were same as previous.
T'he Gup opened the session with introductions and related to the purpose of the discussion.
KARMA Jimba welcomed the HH representatives and addressed the gathering.
In reply to the explanation a villager expressed that from his side they foresee no problem
associated with the road project. Even if there are problems we should adjust to it as benefits
accruing from the road is much greater than any negative impacts it may cause.
The villagers expressed their difficulties that they were facing at the moment relating the sale of
agriculture products and possibilities of production enhancement, medical facilities, educating
their children and so forth. Also expressed, the opportunities of increasing their cash income
through petty contracts with project.
They also came up with possible campsite locations. Phuntsho (Tshogpa of Lingabey) thanked
the EA team for initiating the consultation exercise, which was for their benefit.
Karma Jimba concluded with thanks for their participation and with regret for wasting their busy
time in consultation.
6. Day 3: Lingabey
Attendance: 16 HH (12 women: 4 men)
Others present as the previous session.
3



Annex 3
Gangzur Gup opened the session with introductions of officials present and related the purpose of
the meeting.
KARMA Jimba welcomed the representative and explained about the objectives and scope of
the meeting as the previous session.
Many had the same views/expressions as the people of Gangzur, Kilung and Nimshong.
Sithar expressed a little concerned about the damages to her paddy field and to her double storied
house.
Many had optimistic opinions to improve their living conditions through different economic
activities outcropping from the road project.
The session was concluded by KARMA Jimba with thanks to all.
7. Day 4: Rotpa, Tshrima and Shawa (Morning session)
Attendance: 54 HH (21 female: 33 male)
Others present as the previous session.
Gup (Sonam Phuntsho) opened the session by introducing the guests present and highlighting the
importance of the discussion.
KARMA Jimba followed the same sequence as before, welcoming participants particularly the
Shawa people which is a 4 hour walk from the conference place.
Sonam (Shawa, Tshogpa) was instrumental in relaying the message to his colleagues.
4



Annex 3
A villager expressed that they have gathered here knowing that the EA team is arriving to
investigate the road alternative possibilities in which they could voice their requests.
He further added that they understand the difficulties of road construction, particularly connecting
Shawa and Tshrima with the present road proposal. Despite problems, they requested the road
proposal extended up to Kulingpho before making way towards Zhamling. This can cut the
journey by 3 hour from the proposed DoR plan, said the villager. Both Shawa and Tshrima people
endorsed the request. Even if the project needed their labor support to extend road up to the
requested point they were willing to provide. Said the Shawa and Tshrima people.
These two villages also expressed their problem of chili trading they face with transportation as
the area is potential for chili growing.
The Rotpa people conveyed thanks to the Royal Government of Bhutan for favoring the road
passing near their village. They said they had no statements whatsoever to irk the government.
KARMA Jimba concluded with thanks and with a message of regret particularly for Shawa and
Tshrima people for wasting one day in having this consultation possible. The session ended with
dancing and singing which is a usual custom to offer to the guests.
8. Day 4: Zhamnling and Khaochung (evening session)
Attendance: 25 HH (10 female: 15 male)
Gup (Sonam Phuntsho) opened the session as normal giving remarks to the importance of the
discussion.
KARMA Jimba followed the suit welcoming the representatives in a humorous way for having an
open discussion.
Tshogpa Rinzin facilitated the discussion supporting his gup. He said, "since we have requested
the road any problem arising during implementation should be our duty to solve in any way
acceptable to all. Road is so important if living conditions of the communities to be improved. If
the village is connected by road then other services flowjust naturally".
A lady pointed out that even if the road hits through her house, "I'm willing to compromise as
individual interest should not bear costs on others". She also explained the difference between
those connected by road and not connected. For instance having a village with a number of tin-
roofs is an economic indicator brought about by the road while our village is without a road and
could not afford for it, said the lady.
Similar discussion went on for an hour.
Karma Jimba concluded the session with thanks for their valuable time and suggestions poured
into EA team. The session conclusion was followed by dancing, singing, and drinking home
brewed liquor (ara) for about 3 hour, a tradition and culture to welcome and entertain guests.
9. Day 5: Dungkhar, Tabi
Attendance: 29 HH (14 female: 15 male)
Others present as usual.
Mangiapp (Chewang Dhendup) opened session with introducing guests and highlighting the
importance and purpose of the discussion.
KARMA Jimba welcomed the representatives and explained the objectives and intentions of the
discussion.
5



Annex 3
Dorji Tshomo said that despite Dungkhar being a historical place it has been isolated lagging
much behind than any other places in Bhutan. Road, she said, "is now very crucial for these
communities as the walking distance to the dzongkhag is very far away taking 2 days to walk".
She also pointed out that as development advances visiting Headquarters became very frequent.
She also related the difficulties encountered by a Junior High School construction nearing
completion when everything had to be transported through horses, donkeys' and by people.
Everything gets exhausted, she said.
Karma Jimba related negative aspects associated with the road.
A lady said that we would compromise with whatever negative elements associated with the road
as sustainable benefits are worth considering than these temporary negative impacts. This was
applauded and endorsed by all representatives.
Others threw lots of views on economic activities and opportunities that they will consider when
the road comes through.
Karma Jimba concluded with thanks and best of luck to all.
6



Annex 4
BIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT OF LHUNTSE -DUNGKHAR ROAD.
BY K. D. CHAMLING
Background: This report covers the environmental assessment pertaining to the flora and fauna
for the proposed Lhuntse-Dungkhar road.
The assessment was carried out along the tentative alignment of approximately 37-km road
carried out by the Division of Roads.
Extensive field works were carried out along the tentative road alignment. Discussions were also
carried out on the socio-economic impacts with the local communities who would benefit from
the road.
Possible route alternatives were also discussed during the field works, keeping in view of the best
solution possible to minimize the cost of construction and environmental damages.
Vegetation:- The vegetation in general can be divided into three main categories: (i) The sub-
tropical forest type, (ii) Chir pine forests and (iii) the cool broad-leaved forests.
(i)    The sub-tropical forest type: This forest type is prevalent along the river Kuri Chhu,
from the riverbed up to 150 - 200 meters above the slope. Due to the microclimatic effect
of the slope and the river, there are a number of species intermixed in this forest type.
(ii)    The Chirpine forest: The proposed road passes through for about 7 km in the chirpine
forest. This forest predominantly comprises of chirpine (Pinus roxburghii) trees with an
average size of 20-30 cm dbh (diameter at breast height) and 15-25 m in height. The
under storey also consists of chir pine regeneration of varying size and ages. The ground
flora consists mainly of lemon grass (Cympobogonflexuosus) and other shrubs of Lyonia
species, Budleja asiatica, Indigofera heterantha and etc.
(iii)   The Cool broad-leafed forest: The major part of the road passes through this forest,
after the chir pine forests. It is here that the diversity of the forests is observed, with a
higher number of plant species mix and wild life including the avi fauna. Here and there
are found pure patches of mature Alnus nepalensis, indicating of landslides in the past.
Since the road alignment ascends through this forest, the species varies with aspect and
altitude. Commonly observed species are Quercus lamellosa, Castanopsis species, Alnus
nepalensis, Juglans regia, Betula species, Schima wallichii, Michelia spp., Rhododendron
arboream, Mesea chisa, Aconitum spp. For about 1-2 km the road alignment passes
through a thick patch of thorny bamboo (Chimonobambusa callosa).
Wildlife
From the field observations of actual sightings, droppings and through sounds and supplemented
by the information provided or obtained through many meetings with the local communities the
following species are available in the forests. The species are Rhesus monkeys, White capped
langurs, squirrels, barking deer, wild pigs, bear, leopard, jungle fowls and snakes. About more
than 30 species of avi-fauna have been recorded. However, nothing endangered or protected
species have been observed. According to the local information there are pythons and leopards in
this forest. Since both these species are protected in the Schedule 1, they are to be monitored. (See
appendix for species list.)
Page 1 of 5



Annex 4
Impact Assessment: The road passes a number of agricultural fields and a few patches of forests
and "sokzhing" patches. In this stretch of road the damage to the forests is not much except when
the road crosses the Kilung Chhu. As per the information obtained from the local people,
migratory fish uses this river during the spawning period every year. The spillage and dumping of
debris from felled trees and shrubs could easily choke the river and thereby causing physical
obstruction and preventing upstream movement of this particular migratory fish species for
spawning.
Once the road crosses Kuri Chhu at Yuwa, it enters a pure patch of Albizziaforest. The chir pine
forests starts beyond this patch and the terrain is much more rugged, steep and rocky. The over
cast excavated materials will roll down the slope into the river. Unless the excavated materials are
properly removed and dumped/stored at a safer place there is a danger of everything going down
the river. A lot of dynamites will be required to break away the rocks, which might create some
disturbances to the wild life for some time. A good number of chir pine trees need to be felled
along the road alignment.
But the major forest clearance begins once the road reaches the cool broad-leaved forests. It is in
this section of the road where the bio-diversity is richer, with larger number of plant species and
faunal species. Unless proper restrain is not taken up, it is likely that a good number of wildlife
species will fall prey to poaching activities from the road construction workers.
Accurate quantification of volume of timber/fuelwood is not possible at this juncture, as the final
road alignment has not been done. Moreover during the road construction many trees will be
felled down below the road or get buried under the debris thereby harvesting or extraction of the
timber or fuel wood impossible or uneconomical. However, based on the PIS reports and the
existing field situation, approximate volume has been projected.
Mitigation measures: One environmental hazard associated with road construction is the wanton
spillage of debris down the slope. Associated with this is the temporary loss of ground flora and
habitat for some birds, since some of the trees felled are nesting places for some birds and
squirrels. Normally in developing countries the environmental safeguards are lacking mainly due
to financial and technical constraints. Therefore we must find a suitable, appropriate and cost
,effective measure to suit the country's budget and technical know-how. A balance must be sought
and often compromises have to be made in trying to safeguard the adverse environmental impacts
and the developmental works. There is a no win-win situation and finding a trade-off is the
question the government has to go for.
However, the following mitigation measures have been identified that will help to reduce the
environmental impacts to a certain degree.
(i) During road construction: This phase is most crucial in the life and quality of the road. A
well designed and built road will have a higher initial cost which pays off in the long run as the
costs incurred for its maintenance is subsequently reduced.
*  The standard of a 30-meter road corridor (right of way) need not be adhered to
strictly through out the length of the road. Common sense and technical expertise
are required while clearing the corridor as more than often such a wide corridor is
not required, except in bends or zigs for clearer visibility.
*  In the possible landslides prone areas, extra caution must be provided as to
minimize large/further erosion and land slips.
Page 2 of 5



Annex 4
* Proper bioengineering techniques must be applied, with suitable local species to
restrict soil erosion.
* Avoid dumping of large amount of debris in the streams/rivers to prevent clogging
and destroying the quality of streams/rivers.
* Debris of trees/shrubs and branches should not be thrown in the streams/rivers as
these will obstruct the movements of fish and other aquatic marine lives, especially
the local migratory movements of fishes during spawning period. This is
particularly important and relevant in the Kilung Chhu river, as some local
migratory fishes seem to be moving up and down during and after spawning.
(Local communique).
* The trees in the road corridors should as far as possible be felled uphill, for easy
extraction of timber in future.
v Avoid possible landslide prone areas to check/prevent future major landslides.
- Extract and harvest maximum quantity of timber/fuelwood from the corridors,
during road construction.
- Proper quarry sites need to be selected prior to road construction, to prevent future
landslides and subsequent road blocks.
-  Restrain the workers from  illegal poaching, killing, snaring of wild animals,
poisoning of streams for fishing.
- The workers should be educated and restrained from unwanted forest fires.
(ii)     Maintenance:
* Regular road inspection for signs of slips and erosions to be carried out and
remedial measure taken up to further check the damage.
* Bio-engineering works to be carried out further to prevent land slips/erosion and
faster slope stabilization.
*  Wherever possible plant evergreen trees, preferably with flowering and fruiting
species for enhancing avi-faunal life.
Conclusion:
The proposed road does not pass through any Protected Area, (but there is a proposal to include
this area under Buffer Zone of Bomdiling National Park in future) and the road in general will not
cause much environmental degradation to the existing flora and fauna.
However there are some areas which need to be properly studied in detail in the actual process of
final road alignment and construction. Therefore, to prevent major adverse environmental
impacts, proper alignment and subsequent road construction with adequate environmental safety
measures need to be taken. Since the road does not pass through major catchment areas, there
isn't any adverse impact of drinking down below.
Page 3 of 5



Annex 4
The one area of concern is the Kilung Chhu where proper mitigatory measures have to be taken
for the migratory fishes. Also adequate measures have to be taken to protect both the python and
leopards (which exist as per local information), which are protected under the "Schedule I" by the
Forest and Nature Conservation Act, 1995.
A) List of flora.
I.Rhodendron arboreum                       35. Piper species
2. Quercus griffithii                       36. Arisaema species
3. Artemesia species                        37. Viburnum erubescence
4. Lyonia species.                          38. Pinus roxburghii
5. Murraya koenigii                         39. Buddleja asiatica
6. Emblica officinalis                      40. Indigofera dosua
7. Xanthoxylum species                      41. Woodfordia fruticosa
8. Litsea species.                          42. Alnus nepalensis
9. Ficus species                            43. Acer species
10. Torricellia tilliifolia                 44. Betula alnoides
11. Indegofera heterntha                    45. Quercus lamellosa
12. Desmodium species                       46. Brassiopsis alpina
13. Agave americana                         47. Lindera species
14. Aesendra butyracaeae                    48. Daphne species
15. Syzygium cuminii                        49. Persea species
16. Mallotus phillipenesis                  50. Juglans regia
17. Mallotus nepalensis                     51. Chiimonobambusa callosa
18. Albezzia lebbeck                        52. Orchids
19. Terminalia myrocarpa                    53. Sauraria napaulensis
20. Castonopsis species                     53. Other broad-leaved species
21. Sappindus sebiferum
22. Brassiopsis hainla
23. Clerodendron species
24. Adhatoda vesica
25. Schima wallishii
26.Maccaranga species
27. Myria rubra
28. Bombax ceiba
29. Rhus paniculata
30. Callicarpa species
31. Maesa chisa
32. Rubus species
33. Rubia manjita
34. Pandanus species
Page 4 of 5



Annex 4
B) List of Fauna                           C) Bioengineering species
1. Ashy Drongo
2. House crow                              1. Ervthrina species
3. Jungle crow                             2. Ficus species
4. House sparrow                           3. Viburnum species
5. Red-vented bulbul                       4. Cymbopogon species (lemon grass)
6. Doves                                   5. Bamboo species
7. Pigeons                                 6. Alnus nepalensis
8. Eagles                                  7. Budtlleja asiatica
9. Fly-catcher                             8. Salix species
10. Whistling thrush                       9. Artemesia species
I]. Scarlet-breasted sunbird
12. Stripe-throated Yuhinia
13. Rufous-backed Shrike
14. Forest Eagle Owl
15. Himalayan tree pie
16. Common Hawk Cuckoo
17. Indian Cuckoo
18. Himalayan Barbet
19. Golden Oriole
20. Kalij pheasant
21. Rhesus monkeys
22. White-capped Langurs
23. Wild boars
24. Barking deer
25. Sambhar deer
26. Snakes
27. Lizards
28. Rats
29. Frogs
30. Squirrels
31. Python*
32. Leopard*
* Local information and not actually sighted.
Page 5 of 5



I



Annex 5
PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING GEOLOGICAL FINDINGS ALONG THE
PROPOSED, LHUNTSE - DUNGKHAR ROAD (by Phuntsbo Norbu)
1. INTRODUCTION
A preliminary engineering geological mapping along proposed route(A) was carried out in parts
of Gangzur and Dungkhar Geogs on 1:50, 000 scale, which falls on toposheet no 78M/land 2.
The aim of the fieldwork was to select the best route alternative considering geologically weak
zones and to locate raw materials for construction purposes. Special emphasis was given to the
rock and soil types, structure, landslide prone areas, weathering condition etc.
1.1   Accessibilitv
The area can be approached. by a 365km long metalled road from Samdrupjongkha via
Trashigang and Mongar. Well maintained foot tracts connect all the villages in between the
places.
Phvsiography, drainage and climate
The area falls in the northern extension of the Lesser Himalayas. A prominent N-S trending high
hill range which extends northward to join E-W trending ranges of the Greater Himalayas and
forms conspicuous physiography features. The crest line of these hills range from south to north
and are marked by Phoming La (3914m), Dong La (3971m) and Kam La (3458m).
The area is dissected by the numerous streams where Kuri Chu forms the main drainage system.
It originates from Kula Kangri Glacier in the Tibetan region and flows south- easterly up to Nye
and changes its course to south - easterly till it reaches Lhuntse Dzong. Further downstream the
Kuri Chu flows in a southerly direction. The main tributaries of the Kuri Chu are Tangkhar Chu,
Chuneygang Chu, Kilung Chu, Rong Chu, Nye and Dungkhar Chu.
The climate of the area is like all the Lesser Himalayas which experiences sub-tropical to alpine,
weather with a severe winter.
2.  GEOLOGY OF THE AREA
The rock types in the study area consists mainly of granitoid gneisses belonging to the Thimphu
Group. Within the gneissic terrains, several linear bands of metasedimentary rocks occur as
enclaves. Based on the field observations the following tectonostratigraphy succession is
proposed:
2.1   Naspe Formation
The linear bands of metasedimentary rocks of variable dimensions are found around Kilung,
Thimyul and south of Dungkhar. The lithopackage include garnet mica schist, micaceous
quartzite (at places hematitic), graphitic mica schist, marble and calc-silicate gneiss. The contact
of the Naspe Formation with mica silliminate gneiss of Surey Formation is concealed in most of
the places.
Page I of 5



Annex 5
The detailed lithological variations are described as follows:
Feldspathised garnet mica schist
Around Kilung, Khaotangla and Thimyul, several lenticular bands of graphitic schist occurs
within feldspathised mica schist. It is highly fractured and fragmented.
Marble
Coarsely crystalline marble of variable dimensions 'are exposed near Thimyul and south of
Dungkhar. The marble is intimately associated with calc-silicate gneiss and calc granulite in
which amphibole rich bands are very common.
Micaceous Quartzite
Around Thimvul and SE of Kilung micaceous quartzite is hematitic with limonite encrustation
and interbanded with graphitic schist and marble. The rock in these areas is ferrugineous. But the
same rock found in the south of Dungkhar contains elliptical augen like patches of micaceous
material in the highly recrystallised quartzitic matrix. It is found highly fractured and sheared
where quarry is presently being operated causing landslides.
2.2. SUREY FORMATION
This formation covers most of the area and lies above Jaishidanda Formation. It is represented by
mica granitoid gneiss with xenoliths of high grade mica schist and are often traversed by later
pegmatite and quartz veins.
Flaggy Quartzite
Greyish white, fine grained, thinly bedded, hard and compact. It is noticed from 3+650km to
4+200km. Primary structures such as color bedding and ripple marks are clearly visible on the
outcrop. The rock belongs to the Shumar Formation and it appears to have been thrusted into the
Sure Formation due to the nearness of the Jaishidanda thrust.
Intrusives
Small scale intrusion of tourmaline pegmatite, granite and quartz veins as thin sills and dykes
occur in all the litho-package.
Soil types
A thin film of top soil brownish colored is underlained by greyish brown SAND with some silt/
clay. Pockets of deep red colored silt/ clay is observed in few places. These soils are mixed with
clastics of gneiss, marble, quartzites , schists etc. The size of the clastic ranges from boulders to
gravels and are usually angular in shape.
The following table provides the summary of geological findings by chainage-wise.
Page 2 of 5



Annex 5
Chainage     Rock/Soil Type                                Dynamic/Static movements                  Remarks
(m)
0+000 -      Feldspathised garnet. Biolite gneiss and schist.    Nearby landslide with dimension 20m width  Take off point
0+050        Three discontinuities set which are open: chances  and 40m length. Triggered by seepage of
of toppling and sliding failure              water and active. It is made up of sand.
0+050-       Irregular exposure of rocks and predominantly  Dormant landslides
0+250        consisting of sand with few small pockets of clay.
0+ 250-      Irregular exposure of rocks and predominantly  Dormant landslides but at few places small
0+500        consisting of sand with few small pockets of clay.  landslide exist
0+500-       20m greyish brown colored top soil followed by  Dry land having terraces                Up to ls' hair pin bend.
1+000        light yellowish SAND consisting of plenty of mica.
120m marshy which
Passive
1+000-       Loose SAND and biolite gneiss which is folded  About 100m dry land rest rock and soil (forest  1It to 2nd hair pin bend.
1+350        and opened joints                            land)
Passive
1+350-       Feldspathised garnet biolite gneiss and then                                            Up to Tangkhar Chu
1+800        cultivated land consisting of SAND. At the stream
biolite gneiss with 11 shear plane
Static
1 +800-      150m app. Reddish color clay with clastics of  Cultivated both dry and wet land. Few small
3+600        gneiss and schist. Rest medium grained SAND.    slides
3+600-       Flaggy quartzite, plane failure with SAND pocket.  Forest                               Up to Chuneygang Chu - Quarry
4+200
Static
4+200-       Mostly medium grained SAND with haphazard by   Dormant
5+050        placed massive quartzite and gneiss
5+050-       Small landslide with dimension of 80m width and   Active
Page 3 of 5



Annex 5
5+850        100m length - then SAND mixed with quartzite
and gneissic clastics
5+850-       Massive quartzite interlayered with gneiss and  Toppling and plane failure
6+350        schist.
6+350-       SND mixed with gneiss clastics. At places mica  Few active small landslides observed and also
8+180        schist and gneiss exposures of marshy place near  sinking area.
Kilung Chu.
8+180-       Micaceous quartzite with thin bands of marble,  Dry cultivated land and appears eatable.
9+830        hematite and graphitic schist. Highly weathered
fractured and folded.
9+830-       The area mostly consists of greyish brown colored                                        Rock exposures at 10650 and
12+900       SAND mixed with gneiss and schist clastics.                                              12150 is recommended for quarry.
Marshy land especially between Lekpa and                                                The same bands is also exposed on
Lingabey. Gneiss interbanded with schist and                                            the left bank of Kuri Chu. The area
quartzite just before reaching Yuwa.                                                    seems to be just in equilibrium
construction may destabilize.
12+900-      River terraces which consists of SAND and     Sinking/sliding.
13+500       clastics, with inset--- gneiss exposure.
13+500-      Scree boulders stag one over the other without  Appears to be unstable.                  This portion needs more detail
22+450       cementing materials at the base and soil                                                 study. Priority 1.
intermixed with clastics and dry cultivated land on
top.
13+500-      Scree boulders.                                                                          Priority II
15+550                                                                                                Require more detail study
15+550-      Hard and compact gneiss.                      Toppling and stable after construction     Whole stretch solid rock, priority 11
16+000                                                                                                cont.
16+000-      Khaotangla area highly fractured quartzite and  Steep slope after khaotangla may cause
19+700       garnet mica schist with graphitic schist and  landslide
hematite enter mixed with brown colored silt/clay.
Then passes few gneiss outcrops betore joining to
P 1.
19+700 -     Marshy with sand and few exposure of gneiss.  Sinking area                               Require more study. There is break
Rock below Zhamling.                                                                    in topography - may be controlled
24+200                                                                                                by lineaments.
Page 4 of 5



Annex 5
24+200-      The road is aligned just above gneiss associated                                        More detail study.
32+500       with marble, silicate and mica schist. Above the
road usually consists of topsoil and fine to
medium grained SAND which are found wt.
Marshy at places.
32+500-      Mostly passes through marble and at few places    Seems stable.                         The river area requires 'study.
35+000       gneiss. It also goes along cultivated land.
35+000 -     White micaceous quartzite, which is highly,   Active landslide area
36+000       Sheared fractured and fragmented. 
Page 5 of 5



I
I



* .,   .   .   .            -      Annex   6
Report on  feasibility  study  on  proposed  Lhuntse
Dungkhar Feeder Road.
Introduction:
Lhuntse Dzongkhag is reflected on 78 M/1 and 78 M/2 of topographical
map on 1:50000 scale. Dungkhar (Kurtae) being the historical palace is
situated toward's the north of Lhuntse Dzong at an altitude of 1800 m
above mean sea level and it is yet to be connected by a motorable road.
The gentle slope of Dungkhar has been inhabited by more than 118
houses. While the construction of primary school is going on, the
students are being taught inside the Nagtsang. The people of Dungkhar
are also benefitted by medical facilities with the help of good BHU located
just near the Nagtsang. The people of Dungkhar have to walk 2 to 3 days
carrying construction materials for development activities from Lhuntse.
By virtue of its landscape location, Dungkhar has the potential for
meaningful economic development mainly in agriculture and forestry as
and when it is connected by motorable road. The road would benefit
almost all the villages under Gangzur and Dungkhar gewog. The villages
of Nye and Shawa which is a day's walk from Lhuntse could reduce the
walking distance to merely three hours from the proposed road. Above all
this road would benefit more than 487 houses including the border
security force camp situated at Tapkang.
As enumerated by an village elder in Dungkhar the border of China
(Tibet) is two :days walk from Dungkhar and Nye Khempajong (Bayul) is
merely one day walk form dungkhar.
1



Map Study.
The desktop study was carried by Survey & Design Cell of PWD on the
available topographicalrmap of 1:50000 scale. Initially two alignments
were marked on the map as alignment 1&2 (See annexure -I). The
alignment -1 mprked in pink comprises of 2 numbers hairpin bends near
Thimyul village and reaches Dungkhar via Rotpa and Shamling. The
alignment-2 marked in pink & red connects Dungkhar withou any zig.
Both the alignment were make to take off from the same pont (TP-I) near
Lhuntse (refer annexur - I).
With the above desktop study the following team  members have
proceeded for site to carry out the verification and feasibility study of the
above alignrni'nts mark in annexure - I with effect from 29.10.98 as per
the instruction vide letter No. PWD/S&D/98-99/21/402 dated 13.8.98.
Mr. Pema Wangchen, Offtg. D.E. Lhuntse Dzongkhag.
Mr. Pelden Wangchuck, J.E, Autsho, PWD Lingmethang.
Mr. Tougay Choedup, Offtg. AE, S&D, PWD Thimphu.
Mr. Lhakpa Sherpa, S.O, S&D, PWD Thimphu.
Mr. Tshering Sarndrup, SFA, S&D), PWD Thimphu.
Aim.
The main aim was to carry out the ground reconnaissance survey of the
proposed Lhuntse - Dungkhar Feeder Road as marked on annexure-I and
to submit the detail findings. The instruments used during the survey are
pedometer, altimeter, compass, camera, topographical maps etc.
L



It is to apprise that the Division of Power lhas completed road cutting of
about 6.50 Km form Tongkongla TP-I to EP (see annexure 1) near
Thimyul Zam. The average widthi of thiis road is only 2.5 m. As per the Ir
Charge of road project of Power Division, this road is constructed only to
facilitate the installation of mini hydro power plant over Rongchu a'
Kilung valley.
. .    The take off point.
The take off point and the road constructed by the Division of Power i
exactly as per our alignment shown in annexure - I. However this take of
has following disadvantages.
Take off point TP I
*  -    The space available for take off point shall be occupied by neN
general.,hospital campuses which is under construction. The Dash(
*  Dzongdag of Lhuntse has also instructed the team to not to adop
this take off as the tiospital may be disturbed by traffic as and wile]
thte road is open (See photo below).
The road take off point presently being constructed by the Divisic
of Power ,shall be abandoned as and when their project
completed.
r  .. * .-   .__.
;..    s -w ,- v: -.  ,.    i__      .-. 1   
.~~ ~ : 



Talce off poitit - II
The. team have studied another take off from a zig shiown in annexure -
I as TP -II. This take off point has also been discarded due to the
following reasons.
This take off point from zig on existing road is situated vertically
below new hospital which is under construction and hence the road
construction might effect the foundation of the hospital.
-    The terrain at this take off point is steep and height of road cutting
:          would reach just below the hospital.
Take off point - III.
The Dasho Dzongdag has kindly made a site visit along with the tear-
members to look for a better and suitable take off. point. Finally it wai
decided for the road to take off from the TP - III as shown in annexure -1
(See photo below).
,~~~~~~~0
Methodoology.
A walk-on, survey with help on instruments referred on page 2 has bee,
carried out along the proposed alignmients marked on annexure II. Th
main aim was to determine thie following.



approximate road length
Type of terrain
Type of soil
No. of major & minor bridges required
No. of villages benefitted and to above all the- survey is aimed to
study the most feasible route considering the economic and stability
of road beside connecting as many villages as possible.
Ground reconnaissance.
The alignments marked on annexure -I during desktop study has been
modified due to the following reasons.
, - The power project over Rongchu will be effected by this alignment
as it pas.ses right through the power house and intake point as
shown in annexure -I as X and Y.
X = proposed power house
Y = Water intake point
X-Y = head distance.
This alignment does not benefit the villages located at the right
bank of Kuri chu.
-   This alignment encounters vertical and hard rock before reaching
Rotpa village.
The Division of Power had also requested the team to look for other
alternative bypassing their project site. It was understood that their
project site located at the left bank of Kuri chu shall be connected by rope
way from the right bank.marked as (RW) on annexure -I.
Due to the above point the team marked a new alignment on the map as
shown in annexure - II and named as "Alignment A&B". This alignment
were studied throughly on the map .and ground as detailed below. As
,               ~~~~~~5



intimated by Gangzur Gup,-the alignment "A" would also meet the
requirement of the people's decision submitted to the GYT.
Alignment (A).
This alignment takes off from TP -III as described under topic "Take off
pbint TP III" on page 4. The alignment with maximum of 8% grade is
made to connect the power project road near gangzur by introducing two
time hairpin bend. These zigs are required in order to safe guard another
mini hydro power station at Gangzur which is under renovation at the
moment. The alignment then follows the, power road which has been
terminated at Nongma chorten. As such fresh cutting of 1.85 Km has to
be done from the take off point and remaining 4.65 Km of power road has
to be improved and upgraded to feeder road standard as their road is
V
hnving only 2:5 m width.
Due to the obstruction by hydro power project over Rongchu at Thimyul
and due to non availability of suitable bridge crossing point, the alignment
is made to continue till a place called Yuwa which lies in south- west of
Tsholing village. The team earmarked a bridge crossing point at Yuwa and
reaches Rotpa village by introducing another two numbers of hairpin
bend below Yongmaling village in order to avoid continuous hard rock.
The alignment turns from Rotpa and reaches just below Shamling village
via Yongmaling village. The alignment is made to descend at the rate of
5% grade from Shamling in order to reach Dungkhar and terminates just
below the Nagtsang at Dungkhar as shown in the photo below.
.9 &nedbk S§A .g.-- e.
*       !               .    ;..      ',',5;- ' ':i
~~,            *. ;;s  It  .'  **w es. ,             6 .t  . 4w    
-NX
t ' ' r' \; ; ..... .  , _ s; r 1 1,,; @ ;6



A box cut of around 8 m depth has been proposed just after 250 m from-
the take off point to safe guard an old chorten (Tabub Choedten). The
alignment might effect around 500 m of paddy field in total. The
alignment encounters around 20 m of old slide point and 30 m of new
slide point before reaching Dungkhar (See phioto below).
V~ ~~~~~i
|~~~~~~ -. .3jzH  =ss  f
Summary of alliglmnent "A"
Take off point           From  a bend -on approach road t(
existing hospital near Faaling.
Terminial point          Dungkhar, below Nagtsang.
Approx. road length .    37 Knm.
@      t ~~Maximum grade,          8%0/
No. of iHP bend          5 Nos.
No. of bridges           2 Nos. (45m span over Kurichu an
'          ~~~~10mi span over i<ilung chu)
No. of houses benefitted   487 Nos.
Approx. hard rock        6.5 KI<.,
Approx. lhard soil       18 Km
Approx. o/soil           12.50 Km
Approximate cost of constr-uctioii     Nu. 119.151 million.



.Alignment B (refer topo map attached)
ThWs alignment is same as alignment "A" till the bridge crossing point at
Yuwa. After crossing Kurichu at Yuwa this alignment is made to reach
Dungkhar directly without benefitting' Rotpa, Shawa, Thema, Yongmaling.
and Shamling. As this alignment follows the river bed, it encounters
maximum stretch of very hard rock.
Summary of alignment "B"
Take off point          From  a bend on approach road to
existing hospital near Faaling.
Terminal point          Dungkhar, below Nagtsang.
Approx. road length     33 Km.
Maximum grade           8%/o
No. of HP bend          2 Nos.
No. of bridges          6 Nos. (45m span over Kurichu, lOm
span over Kilung chu and 10m each
over other 4 stream)
No. of houses benefitted   345 Nos.
Approx. hard rock       10 Km.
Approx. hard soil       15 Km
Approx. o/soil          8 Km
Approximate cost of construction =   Nu. 123.385 miilion.
8



5/  Alignment "C"
Although the recce team discarded this alignment due to the reasons
highlighted on page 5 of this report, the following are the findings after
verification on ground.
Summary of alignment "C"
Take off point          From  a bend on approach road to
existing hospital near Faaling.
Terminal point          Dungkhar, below Nagtsang.
Approx. road length     39 Km.
Maximum grade           8%/o
No. of HP bend         4 Nos.
. No. of bridges         2 Nos. (65m span over Kurichu and
10m span over Rongchu chu)
No. of houses benefitted   291 Nos.
Approx: hard rock       13 Km.
ApprOx. hard soil       17 Km
- Approx. o/soil         9 Km
Approximate cost of construction =   Nu. 128.166 million.
49
. . 9



7     Comparative Statement.
- Name of  Approx.  No.of    No. of    No. of         Approx
alignment Length   zigs     bridges   houses        cost.
Benefitted    ( Nu.-m)
A      37        5         2        487            119.151
B      33        2         6        345            123.385
C      39        4         2        291            128.166
Conclusion / Recommendation
The recce team would like to recommend alignment "A" though it the
length is bit.longer by 4 Km as it is benefitting more number of villages
as compared to alignment "B" where one of the criteria feeder road is
being more justified. On the other hand the cost of construction of
alignment "A" also lower than that of "B" & "C". All the three alignments '
stated above seems to be stable.
The, Dasho Dzongdag had also strongly supported to adopt alignment "A"
as this alignment also fulfills the request of the public submitted to the
Gewog Yargye Thsogchung. The Gangzur Gup had also given a written
statement that the villages under his jurisdiction will have more benefit
by alignment "A" other than Dungkhar gewog.
The team would like to extend our gratitude to Lhuntse Dzongdag and
District PWD for their kind hospitality and corporation for the work.
Report prepared & submitted by   Tougay Choedup
10



Preliminary Cost estimate
ALIGNMENT "C',
SI. No. I         Particulars of Items        Quantity  Length   Rate       Amount in Nu.
1 Earth work in excavation using Bull Dozer,
.    Excluding the cost of major break down and
transport at site.
a) E0388 (loose soil)                    53437.5      9      45.2          21738375.00
lb) E0410 (Hard soil)                      29625     17    52.33           26354696.25
ic) E0970 (Hard rock)                      20625     13    62.86           16854337.50
2 Base course                                         39   460000           17940000.00
3 Permanent Works                                     39   286000           11154000.00
4 Cost of bridge x                        _____1       65   455000          29575000.00  tj
_____                         1     10   455000           4550000.00
.__________________ _ %128166408.75
__Nu. 128.166 million
._1



zz%,    PROP~OSED LHUNITSEE  DUNGK[HAR FEEDER~ ROAD.                         ~K,K 
A    2  ~~~Tc-ntative Road length   -s->'ii11t'   (\J4~~~~/  147XE".U PRE 
Alignment "" 37 Km
Algnment "C"   3   m                                                         ~-
Alignment "B"   33 Km                                        /__
II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
7        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
~~~~~*I~~~~~~~~~~N   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                  I'                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~V ~i
;2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 7
STUDY TEAM
The study team comprised of the following:
1. Karma Jimba, Road Engineer cum Environmental Specialist (Team Leader)
2. Kamal Dan Chamling, Botanist cum wildlife biologist
3. Phuntsho Norbu, Engineering Geologist
4. Sonam Phuntsho, Gup Gangzur Geog
5. Mangiapp Kurteo Geog
6. Lhakpa Sherpa, Survey Team Leader, Lhuntse - Dungkhar Road



I



4 -- trff*}h*S1*ry t   t I i p           QS                    .      e            X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f ~n~
LEGEND                                                                                                                                    m
lirkint3 Am" Wfltdary                                        7
thranimadh la N1ofki tAm1
' Kktaagi Wt IdNfe St t{.*r 
./3   .ha   wlloor t l Sare  hAottr
Snwnig WildlIfe 5 sncto.m
.  . . .,                                                                             f.r
{-~~~~~~~ N                                                .. _         -
WWF                                                                                     -.                  ,        , 



