                                                                                       ICR27
                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                       Report No:ICR000027



    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    ( IDA-33090 )

                                          ON A


                        CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF


                                US$ 11.6 MILLION


                               (SDR 8.5 MILLION)


                                           TO


                                         Bhutan


                                           FOR


                          RURAL ACCESS PROJECT


                                 November 29, 2006

South Asia Sustainable Development Department
Bhutan Country Unit

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
                           World Bank Group authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 11/29/2006 )
                             Currency Unit = Nu
                                  Nu 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                                 US$ 1.00 = Nu 44.54


                                    Fiscal Year
                                   July 1 - June 30




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
CDB   Construction Development Board
DADM  Department of Aid and Debt Management
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DOR   Department of Roads
EA    Environmental Assessment
EFRC  Environmentally Friendly Road Construction
EMP  Environmental Management Plan
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
FY   Fiscal Year
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA   International Development Association
IDD   Investigation and Development Division
ISR   Implementation Status Report
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOWHS Ministry of Works and Human Settlement
NBAD National Budget and Aid Coordination Division
NEDA National Economic & Development Authority
PAD  Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project Development Objective
PMR  Project Management Report
PMU  Project Management Unit
PPD   Policy and Planning Division
QAG   Quality Assessment Group
QER   Quality at Entry Assessment
RAP  Rural Access Project
RGOB  Royal Government of Bhutan
RSMP Road Sector Master Plan
SA   Social Assessment

SBD  Standard bidding document
SNV  Netherlands Development Organization
TA   Technical Assistance




                         Vice President: Praful C. Patel

                       Country Director: Alastair J. McKechnie

                        Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen

                    Project Team Leader: Binyam Reja

                                                       Bhutan
                                    RURAL ACCESS PROJECT




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 16
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 18
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 19
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 28
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 39
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 41
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 42
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 43
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 44
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 59
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 66
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 67

1. Basic Information

Country:                Bhutan                Project Name:           RURAL ACCESS
                                                                      PROJECT
Project ID:             P059481               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-33090
ICR Date:               12/21/2006            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               KINGDOM OF
                                                                      BHUTAN
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 8.5M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 7.5M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Communications
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

Netherlands Development Organization (SNV Buthan)


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/08/1999           Effectiveness:     05/24/2000        05/24/2000
Appraisal:         06/28/1999        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          12/21/1999        Mid-term Review: 02/14/2005          06/17/2003
                                     Closing:           04/30/2005        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any                                              Highly
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory
Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            12             12
Roads and highways                                           88             88
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement             Secondary        Secondary
Rural policies and institutions                Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure              Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                 At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                               Praful C. Patel  Mieko Nishimizu

Country Director:                             Alastair J.
                                              McKechnie        John W. Wall

Sector Manager:                               Guang Zhe Chen   Frannie A.
                                                               Leautier
Project Team Leader:                          Binyam Reja      Thampil Pankaj

ICR Team Leader:                              Surendra Govinda
                                              Joshi

ICR Primary Author:                           Natalya
                                              Stankevich




                                          2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Bhutan 's difficult terrain makes the provision of physical and social infrastructure
services an expensive and difficult proposition. Bhutan 's development strategy is guided
by the Vision Statement of Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) articulated in "Bhutan
2020: A Vision for Peace, Prosperity and Happiness," which puts human happiness, not
only economic growth, at the center of the nation's development. Hydropower
development and export of power is the main means for financing social and economic
infrastructure development. In recent years, Bhutan has been able to develop roads,
power supply, telecommunications, and water supply to serve a growing share of its
population, and improve the population's access to education and health services.
Preserving the cultural heritage, country's forest cover, and its rich biodiversity is at the
center of Bhutan 's development strategy. The country has a well-developed community-
based participatory planning system, which is the basis to select regional priorities for
development, including rural roads.


Road accessibility. According to Bhutan 's Population and Housing Census of 2005,
21 percent of rural households live within one to four hours of walking distance from the
nearest all-season road, and another 21 percent live within more than four hours and up to
three days. Mule transport costs about US$3 per ton per km compared to US$ 0.1 per ton
per km by road. The long distance prevents farmers from crop diversification and
growing of marketable cash crops, causes damage to perishable crops taken to the market
and poor availability of extension services etc., impeding farming output and income.
Poor road links reduce access to medical facilities, resulting in more deaths and more sick
days out of work. Most important, poor road access leads to low school enrollment and
lack of upgrading of school facilities in inaccessible areas, since all construction
materials have to be carried on expensive mule-hauls and some construction equipment
cannot be so transported. Rural access improvement is critical for the sustainable
development of the agricultural economy, connecting the scattered rural communities
with the main stream of the national life and improving the quality of life.

Management of the Road Sector. Road infrastructure in Bhutan is the responsibility of the
Department of Roads (DOR) in the Ministry of Works Human Settlement (MOWHS).
The network under DOR management includes some 3,433 km (i.e., 1,579 km of national
highways, 459 km of districts roads, 1,270 km of feeder roads and 125 km of urban
roads). DANTAK, a border road organization of the Government of India, oversees 595
km of roads which will be gradually transferred to DOR. 571 km of forest roads and 389
km of farm roads are under the responsibility of the Departments of Forest and Ministry
of Agriculture. In addition, local and farm roads, and mule tracks are managed by local
government agencies.



                                              3

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objective (PDO) was to improve the access of rural
communities to markets, schools, health centers and other economic and social
infrastructure in order to improve the quality of life and productivity of rural
communities. The project was also aimed to help strengthen institutional capacity for
implementing environmentally friendly approaches to improve rural access, community
involvement in rural roads selection and management, and improved infrastructure
maintenance. The PDO was to be achieved by financing sustainable maintenance and
rehabilitation of feeder roads and construction of economically justifiable feeder roads,
subject to the adoption of environmentally sustainable construction and maintenance
practices.

The PDO was to be monitored by the following indicators:

    A. Average travel time and transport costs in project areas (to be reduced by a
        minimum 50%)
    B. Reduced distance to health and education services;
    C. Higher enrollment of in primary and junior schools in the corridor of impact;
    D. Improved road maintenance system through involvement of local communities;
    E. Dzongkhag (district) rural access master plans prepared using participatory
        processes and endorsed by people's representatives;
    F. Wider acceptance of environmental safeguards in construction and maintenance
        practices.

A socioeconomic impact monitoring study was included in the design of the project to
assess the achievement of the above outcome indicators, as well as other more indirect
impacts of the project on beneficiary groups. The impact study included a baseline
survey before project implementation, and two repeat surveys on the same households
and communities during and after project works were carried out.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The primary beneficiaries of the project were the isolated rural communities living in
five dzonkhags (districts): Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trasi Yangtse, Trashigang, and Mongar.


                                            4

According to the baseline survey, the project was to benefit 3400 households living in
39 villages of the above districts, and to bring these households within less than half a
day walk to the nearest road head. This would in turn help households to be connected
with public transport services and have easier access to markets, health and education
services. The project had a direct impact on improving agricultural productivity, which in
turn supported the diversification of cash crops and increased profitability and income
from agriculture.

The secondary beneficiaries of the project were the Department of Roads (DOR)
headquarter and field staff, and the incipient construction and consulting industry in
Bhutan. The institutional strengthening component included training and capacity
development program for the introduction and adoption of Environmentally Friendly
Road Construction (EFRC) methods in road construction and maintenance. All key
stakeholders, including senior policy makers, DOR staff, contractors and consultations,
were provided with extensive training on the EFRC concept and its application in road
construction and maintenance.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had the following components:

Component 1: Construction of New Priority Feeder Roads of 122 km length
(Estimated Total Cost: US$12.5 million). Civil works were to be executed following
EFRC methods.

Component 2: Office and Transport Equipment for DOR (US$0.3 million). This
included survey equipment, office equipment and vehicles to provide logistic support for
project monitoring and supervision.

Component 3: Project management assistance, training and technical assistance
(US$1.5 million). These inputs were expected to assist during the introduction and
dissemination of environmentally friendly design and implementation practices for rural
road construction and maintenance, for institutional capacity building of both public and
private sectors (including community contracting), and for project implementation
support.

All project roads were selected from the priority list included in the Eighth Five-Year
Plan, which was prepared through community participation and consultation. Although
the project was not a "poverty targeted" operation, the candidate roads were located in
some of the poorest areas in the country and served areas with poor road access. Support
for the introduction and adoption of EFRC method was to be provided by the
Netherlands Development Organization (SNV) Technical Assistance (TA) program,
funded from the Government of Netherlands under the Integrated Sustainable
Development Program. In addition, SNV TA program provided support for piloting
community contracting for the maintenance of the first 15 km of the Dakpai-Buli road.




                                            5

6.6 Revised Components

None of the project components was revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were some changes in the selection of candidate roads. Three small candidate
roads tentatively identified at appraisal were dropped because of severe geological
problems and unstable slope in some sections of the project areas. Instead, the Yadi ­
Shershong road (7 km) in Mongar Dzongkhag was selected from the road priority list of
the Eighth Five-Year Plan. After the changes in candidate roads, the total road length
constructed came to 129 km against the appraised length of 122 km. This change was
allowed under the provision of the Development Credit Agreement.

In addition, the heavy monsoon in 2004 caused landslides, which required remedial
works to remove material as well as stabilize slopes to prevent future rock fall. A detailed
geo-technical investigation was carried out to develop remedial measures. The study and
the remedial works were financed from the savings of the project, which largely came
due to the depreciation of the US Dollar against the SDR. With IDA's concurrence, the
Credit savings enabled DOR to also procure additional traffic safety barriers for the
project roads to improve their safety aspect and additional equipment for the newly-
established Investigation and Development Division, which explains the increase in the
final expenditures of the equipment component.

The Credit closing date was extended by 14 months from April 30, 2005 to June 30, 2006
to accommodate delays in the construction works and implementing remedial
geotechnical measures recommended by the geotechnical investigation.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Project Design and Flexibility. This was the first road project financed by the Bank in
Bhutan. Therefore, the project design was kept simple and focused, and took into account
the unique set of circumstances in Bhutan, including its small country size, good
governance, and well-known commitment by the government to preserve the
environment and the country& 8217;s cultural heritage. In addition, the project design
took into account the lack of public sector experience in contract management and the
private sector& 8217;s infant stage in road construction and consultancy. The IDA
Guidelines were to be applied with appropriate flexibility to make the project design
simple and fit into the unique circumstances of the country.

Risks and Mitigation Measures. All risks were properly identified and mitigation



                                                6

measures developed. The main risk identified during appraisal was related to lack of
prior experience and familiarity with the new concept, which could have been an
impediment to successful introduction and implementation of EFRC in road construction
and maintenance. To mitigate this risk, the project developed EFRC-related procedures
and guidelines, including Environmental Code of Practice, and provided for close
monitoring and evaluation of contract clauses and Environmental Management Plan.
RGOB and DOR showed exceptionally high commitment to the EFRC method and
mainstreamed it within the country's environmental guidelines and policies (see Section
7.4)

Participatory process. The project design reflected RGOB& 8217;s established practices
to involve communities in planning, implementation and management of development
projects. The identification of the project roads was preceded by a decentralized planning
exercise involving communities at geog (block) and dzongkhag (district) levels. The
Social and Environmental Assessments were also useful to inform the communities about
the project and its impacts (favorable and adverse) and solicit their views on mitigation
measures, suggestions and roles they could play. The Borrower followed good
participatory procedures in compensating project affected persons and published norms
for deciding on compensation, including land-for-land, cash-for-land, or combined
options.

Quality at Entry. A Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) of the project carried out by
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in March 2000 rated QEA as "Highly Satisfactory"
citing the strengths of government ownership, unique and participatory manner of project
participation, inclusion of many elements of the best practice in its social, environmental,
and economic evaluations. The ICR broadly concurs with the QAG assessment. The
project had very clear objectives, an innovative approach and a simple design. However,
it could have had a higher degree of readiness before credit negotiation, including having
detailed engineering designs prepared in advance of the start of first-year works. In
addition, the project could have benefited from detailed geotechnical investigation and
better identification of geological risks associated with the fragile terrain along some of
the roads financed. These could have helped avoid delays and geological problems
identified during project implementation.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Project implementation was satisfactory, with very little disruption. The strong
ownership by DOR and RGOB ensured effective project implementation. There were,
however, some unavoidable issues related to the fact this project was the first major road
project funded by IDA in Bhutan. Four factors that adversely affected project
implementation are:

    · Weak Contractor Capacity. The project was the first major roads project executed
        by contractors. Prior to this project, most road works were carried out by


                                               7

  DANTAK (a border road organization of the Government of India) or using the
 force account arrangements. Because of their infant stage, most of the contractors
 faced technical capacity constraints and lacked proper construction management
 skills and experience in resources planning. As a result, some contractors had
  fallen behind schedule and required contract time extensions. During project
  implementation, a Construction Industry Capacity Assessment was carried out in
  close consultation with the Bhutan Construction Development Board and the
  Construction Association of Bhutan to identify the weaknesses of the contracting
  industry and develop a set of recommendations and an action plan. DOR has
  started implementing the study recommendations to enhance the technical
  capacity and organization of the local contractors.




· Vertically Disintegrated System of Contracting. At the initial implementation
  stage, DOR followed a vertically disintegrated system of contracting, whereby
  four separate contracts were awarded for opening the road, building structures,
  surfacing and bioengineering to different contractors on the same stretch of the
  road. The main reasons for choosing this system were (i) technical considerations
  due to uncertainty of future construction requirements and (ii) weak capacity of
  the emerging local construction industry. However, this system did not enable the
  contractors to use resources efficiently and resulted in the PMU incurring high
  transaction costs to administer a large number of contracts of small sizes. Later
  this system was changed to a more conventional integrated contracting system,
  whereby all works were awarded in one package for the same stretch of the road.




· Geotechnical Problems in Project Roads. During the heavy monsoon rains of
  2004, a number of landslides and geological problems surfaced in some sections
  of the project roads. This required extensive mitigation measures that could have
  been much less extensive if better up-front geo-technical investigations had taken
  place and reflected in the design. The international consultant hired by DOR
  prepared detailed recommendations, including engineering designs and cost
  estimates, for mitigation of the landslides and other geo-technical problems.
  Local contractors were hired to execute these works.




· Ineffective structure of the implementation arrangements. The project site
  engineers reported to the Executive Engineers of the respective field offices, but
  the Executive Engineers were not part of the project management team and did
  not report to the Project Manager in Thimphu. These resulted in poor
  communication between HQ and field staff, and diluted the responsibility and
  accountability arrangements for quality assurance and implementation progress.
  During the early period of the project implementation, the PMU had very little



                                        8

        field presence, feeling that supervision of works rested only with field offices.
        However, during the latter part of the project implementation, the PMU staff were
        adequately empowered by DOR and made numerous site visits, which helped to
        expedite project implementation and compliance with the quality assurance
        provisions.




7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The primary monitoring and evaluation system was well established for the project. It
was primarily focused on the use of the socio-economic impact monitoring study, which
included a baseline survey and two repeat surveys during the project implementation of
the project. In addition, the project had monitoring indicators for outputs and inputs.
However, the outcome indicators proposed in the PAD were not fully measurable, and
the socio-economic monitoring study was adjusted to focus the surveys on the indicators
that are measurable, and whose impacts could be attributed to the project. The results of
the socio-economic impact monitoring study are summarized in Annex 5.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard compliance is rated satisfactory.

Environmental aspects. The project was Category B for environmental safeguard
requirements. During project preparation a comprehensive Environmental Assessment
(EA) was prepared for the Lhuntse-Dungkhar road and was taken as a model for the
remainder of the project roads. Prior to undertaking any civil works, DOR, with the help
from SNV TA program, carried out EA and developed Environmental Management
Plans (EMP). In addition, DOR developed Environmental Code of Practice (ECOP) for
managing environmental impacts for road construction design and implementation.
Given the good track record in environment impact management, Bhutan has been
selected as a pilot country to adopt the country system for environment management . A
Bank team has completed its gap assessment, and has recommended to use Bhutan's own
environment policies and procedures for the proposed Second Rural Access Project.

Social aspects. A Social Assessment (SA) was carried out as part of the project
preparation using participatory and survey methodologies in the project areas of
Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trashi Yangtse and Trashigang Dzonkhags. The SA indicated an
enthusiastic and overwhelming positive response from the communities for the project. A
Resettlement Action Plan was prepared for the Dakpai-Buli road as a model study and all
other project roads were required to develop a similar plan. By the closure of the project,
all social mitigation measures including land acquisition and resettlement were
completed in accordance with the agreed Resettlement Action Plan.




                                                 9

Fiduciary compliance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Disbursement. Similar to other projects in the Bhutan lending portfolio, credit
disbursement was slow and lagged behind physical completion. The delays were in part
due to the de-concentrated nature of the project implementation arrangements, wherein
DOR field offices did not adequately follow through with the submission of claims.
There was a lack of effective communication among RGOB specialists on financial
management and procurement, delays in certification of works by the project site
engineers and delays in the submission of claims by contractors. Replenishment of the
Special Account was sometimes affected by the Department of Aid and Debt
Management's (DADM) delays in submitting disbursement claims because the field
project implementation units often provided DADM with inadequate or incorrect
information. Accountants at the project sites faced capacity constraints to handle project
reporting requirements. The Bank's disbursement staff often traveled to Bhutan to
provide training to RGOB and DOR staff on Bank disbursement procedures and
requirement. With respect to audit compliance, the project did establish a good track
record for submitting quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) on a timely basis.
Audit reports generally did not include significant auditor observations.

As of September 30, 2006, the disbursements stood at SDR 7,926,092.42against the
original credit of SDR 8.5 million or 94 percent. The undisbursed balance of SDR
573,907.58 is cancelled effective November 24, 2006.

Procurement. Procurement of works, goods and services was carried out in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The bidding process was arranged in a competitive and transparent
manner. Since the local construction industry was in its infant stage, the qualification
criteria set by the Bank were higher than the industry was capable of meeting in order to
qualify for the bidding. As a result, some qualification requirements had to be relaxed to
attract bids from local contractors, and the Bank provided a number of exceptions in
issuing no objection letters for the award of contracts. DOR's procurement capacity
improved significantly during the implementation of the project. DOR staff handled
procurement tasks efficiently and proved proficient in preparing tenders and evaluation
of bids. However, the procurement procedures, which require multiple reviews and
approval at the highest level, even for small size contracts, caused significant delays in
contract evaluation and award. RGOB is currently reviewing the various thresholds for
contract review and approval.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Maintenance of the newly built feeder roads. Maintenance and operation of completed
road is handled by the National Workforce under DOR's force account and the pilot
community contracting for the first 15 km of the Dakpai-Buli road. The follow-up project
will support community contracting on the two RAP road corridors - Gomkora-



                                               10

Tomzanhangtsen and Bartsam-Ramjar - where communities have sufficient labor willing
and able to work in road maintenance. The only difference in this contracting model in
the follow-up project will be that the communities will have to register as petty
contractors to have the same rights and obligations as other private contractors.Therefore,
the maintenance of completed roads will continue to be carried out under the National
Work Force and through community contracting.

Follow-up operation . Considering the positive economic and social impacts of the RAP,
RGOB has requested the Bank to support a follow-up project. The proposed Second
Rural Access Project is currently under preparation and will be processed as a 'repeater'
following a more streamlined procedure. The proposed RAP II will have the same
objectives as RAP I, and will expand rural access improvements in three additional
dzongkhags, which are ranked as high priority in the Road Master Plan of 2004. RAP II,
which is expected to be approved by the Board in FY07, will follow EFRC approach and
continue the capacity development program for DOR and the local construction industry.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's relevance is rated highly satisfactory.
The project remains highly relevant to RGOB's current Ninth Five-Year Plan (FYP) and
the IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bhutan for 2006-09 (endorsed by the
Board in November 2005). Both RGOB's Ninth FYP and the CAS make improving rural
accessibility a defining development issue and give high priority to support
improvements in rural road expansions. The RAP is also in line with RGOB's policy to
preserve the environment and promote private sector development. The project
development objectives are also aligned with global priorities, including the Millennium
Development Goals related to poverty eradication, access to education and health
services, and environmental sustainability.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The achievement of the PDO is rated highly satisfactory. The project achieved its
objectives to improve access, and in doing so, improved the quality of life of the rural
communities and productivity of the agricultural sector. The Socioeconomic Impact
Monitoring Study has documented many of the project's achievements and results, and
the study's main findings are summarized in Annex 5 and highlighted below.

(A) Improved access of previously isolated rural communities to markets, schools,
health centers and other economic and social infrastructure (Achieved).

Shift from head loading and animal transport to motorized transport. Access to



                                                11

economic and social services centers has become easier, faster and cheaper for residents
of 39 villages in the five project dzongkhags. 3,771 households (compared to 3,400
projected at appraisal) are in half a day walk to the nearest roads compared to 1-3 days
before the road was open. Motorized transport services (by taxi, truck or bus) are
available on most of the roads. The Department of Transportation and Safety in the
Ministry of Communication has started providing scheduled bus services on the Dakpai-
Buli road (five times a week) and planed to do the same in other project roads, where the
private sector is currently providing services. Most beneficiaries now use motorized
transport services, rather than portering or animal transport for transport of goods and
supplies to the markets. The modal shift has resulted in preventing damage and loss of
farmers' produce during transportation. Porters and animal transport can lead to up to 50
percent loss or damage.

Significant reduction in travel time and transport costs. Travel time to reach hospitals
and markets has been reduced by 76 percent (versus 50 percent as set at appraisal), on
average, and transport costs has declined by 75 percent (versus 50 percent as set at
appraisal). The travel time to school in the neighboring villages has declined from more
than six hours to around one hour. While RGOB gives priority to increasing access to
basic education in remote areas, largely through the establishment of new community
schools, the construction of new roads is important as a means of supporting increased
enrollment, particularly at the post-primary levels of education when children are older
and can travel more independently. This is particularly the case for girl students who way
be less inclined to continue their studies if they require boarding facilities.

Reduced distance to economic and social services. Many shops (e.g., 12 shops in Buli,
one shop in Gomphu) have been opened in the project areas and households do not need
to travel outside their village to purchase some essential commodities. Rural credit
services have also come to the project villages. Representatives of the rural credit agency
make monthly visits to the villages to collect and process credit requests.

(B) Improved quality of life of the rural communities (Achieved).

Improvement in social services. Medical supplies and food rations are now delivered on
time right to the door of the basic health units and schools. Ambulances easily reach
villages to transport sick patients to the hospitals. Most of the schools in the project
villages are either renovating or expanding their facilities. Three have been upgraded
from primary to junior high schools, two more are to be upgraded and a few new schools
are to be built in the project areas.

Improvement in the quality of housing. With availability of motorized transport service
to bring construction materials, many beneficiaries have started renovating their houses
and improving sanitary conditions, including replacement of banana leaf roofs with
corrugated galvanized iron (CGI) sheets and installation of water standpipes and latrines.

Reduction in prices for consumption commodities in villages accessible by roads.
Prices for consumption commodities have been significantly reduced in the villages



                                               12

connected by roads. Residents of connected villages pay 4-14 percent more than in the
town, where they used to go before the project, while residents of control villages (not
connected by roads) pay 14-30 percent more than in town.

(C) Improvement in the productivity of the rural communities (Achieved).

The improved access to markets has created an incentive for villagers to invest in
upgrading their tools and improvement of agricultural outputs. Many of the beneficiaries
have applied for farmer's credit and started approaching the Renewable Natural
Resources (RNR/agriculture extension) centers more frequently for professional
agricultural advice. According to the socio-economic impact monitoring study, visits to
the RNR centers have more than doubled in the project areas since the roads were
opened.

Diversification of crops. Most of the farmers have diversified their agricultural products
from mostly cereal and rice to high-valued vegetables (e.g., broccoli, cauliflower), cash
crops (e.g. chili pepper, potato) and fruit (e.g., walnut, orange). Some farmers have
reduced land areas under cereal and expanded orchards and new cash crops, which are in
higher demand in neighboring markets. Most farmers have increased the number of fruit
trees and introduced new seeds (e.g., orange, pear, peach, walnut, and apple).

Increase in income from the sale of agricultural and farm produce. With the improved
road access, farmers are able to take their harvest and produce to markets in a shorter
period of time and without damaging their products while traveling. This has enabled
farmers to increase the volume of their products and earn higher revenues from the sale
of their produce. According to the socioeconomic impact monitoring study, project
beneficiaries have enjoyed 64 percent increase in income from the sale of agricultural
produce. Revenues have increased by more than 100 percent, particularly from the sale
of maize and different sorts of vegetables. In addition, sales of newly introduced cash
crops (e.g. chilli, potato) have also significantly contributed to increases in farmers'
incomes. Revenues from the sale of butter have increased 29 and 60 percent,
respectively, in the Yadi-Shershong and Gomphu road corridors; revenues from the sale
of cheese have increased by 43 and 140 percent, respectively, in the same corridors.

(D) Wider acceptance of environmental safeguards in construction and maintenance
practices (Achieved).

This project has succeeded in raising considerable awareness regarding the need to adopt
environmentally sustainable construction practices. Many important generic outputs have
been generated to promote EFRC, such as Environmental Codes of Practice (ECOPS)
and EFRC guidelines, standard bidding documents, etc., which have found a wider
application in road development projects in Bhutan . The National Environmental
Commission has now mandated EFRC application in all road projects under the
responsibilities of different agencies, including DOR, Ministries of Forestry and
Agriculture, and dzongkhag administrations.




                                              13

(E) Involvement of local communities in road planning and maintenance activities
(Partially Achieved).

As the planning process in Bhutan is organized from bottom to top, local communities
were involved in identifying priority feeder roads, which were later included in the
National Transport Master Plan. The RAP piloted a community contract on the first 15
km of the Dakpai-Buli road. The pilot was successful and the contract was renewed for
another year. Although DOR plans a scaling-up of the community contracting module on
other roads, this may be difficult because of the shortage of labor in the countryside.

(See Annex 4 for Outputs by Components and Annex 5 for more details on Outcomes of
the Project.)




8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Efficiency in achieving the project objectives in terms of economic rate of return is highly
satisfactory.

The ICR followed the PAD methodology in calculating the economic rate of return and
investment per capita for all project roads. The PAD established a cost-effectiveness threshold of
US$ 560 per beneficiary corresponding to an ERR of 12 percent for economic viability of the
project roads. The ICR analysis determined that the actual average investment per beneficiary in
all the project roads was much lower - at US$365, which means that the delivered ERR was
higher than the ERR estimated at appraisal. The per beneficiary investment in the roads ranged
from US$210 up to US$ 603. The Lhuentse-Dungkhar road had the highest investment per
beneficiary (US$603) due to escalation of costs and additional civil works which were
undertaken as a result of the geological and geotechnical problems caused by the heavy monsoon
season in 2004. However, per beneficiary investment in the Lhuentse-Dungkhar road was still
above the norm suggested for exceptional cases in the PAD: US$650 corresponding to ERR of 10
percent.

                               Length,               Latest Estimate                 Number of              Investment per
                                  km              Nu                 US$           Beneficiaries*         beneficiary, US$**
 Civil Works                    128.76        557,802,736      12,569,352.75                 34,434                       365
 Construction of Dakpal-         36.6
 Buli Road                                    124,411,717       2,803,454.79                  7,840                       358
 Construction of Lhuentse        39.8
 Dungkhar Road                                208,612,168       4,700,801.47                  7,801                       603
 Construction of other           32.38
 feeder roads                                 134,167,019       3,023,277.73                 14,366                       210
 Construction of Trashi          19.98
 Yangste Road                                 90,611,833        2,041,818.76                  4,427                       461
 Notes:
 * The number of beneficiaries is equal to the number of residents from the project affected villages plus 10% to include
 other beneficiaries who directly benefited from trade or visits to the newly accessible areas. This is in accordance with the
 PAD methodology.
 ** Exchange rate: US$1=Nu 44


8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


                                                            14

(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated satisfactory given the high relevance and efficiency of the
project, and achievement of the project objectives. The project remains highly relevant
to the RGOB's and the CAS development priorities for improving rural access.
Achievement of the project was successful: all targets were either met or exceeded, and
secondary impacts, as established by the monitoring study, were substantial and include:
(i) diversification of the rural economy; (ii) increase in agricultural productivity and
farmers' incomes; (iii) reduction in prices for consumption commodities; and (iv)
improvement in the welfare of the rural beneficiaries. The project was highly efficient, as
the actual investment per beneficiary of US$365 was significantly lower than the
projected US$560.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development are rated satisfactory.

See Annex 5, Socioeconomic Impact Monitoring Study .


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Strengthened institutional capacity of the DOR in EFRC implementation, contract
management and road infrastructure maintenance (Achieved).
The institutional component helped DOR and its field offices in the five dzongkhags
build and strengthen their capacity to implement EFRC to improve rural access, promote
community involvement in rural road selection and management, and ensure sustainable
rural road maintenance in road projects. The new Investigation and Development
Division consisting of Environmental and Geotechnical Units was established with the
responsibilities of development of standard specifications and quality assurance
requirements, field investigations for the compliance with the standards, geotechnical
investigation and support and environmental safeguard aspects. Training programs,
including post-graduate studies, short-term courses, study tours and local workshops,
were organized and delivered to train DOR staff in contract and construction
management, procurement, financial management, and environmentally friendly
construction methods.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops



                                               15

(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The socio-economic monitoring study conducted beneficiary surveys at three stage of the
project life: during preparation, implementation and after completion. Brief findings of
these beneficiary surveys are provided in Section 8.2 and more details are given in
Annex 5.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The risk to the development outcome is assessed as low.

Risk to the conditions of the new roads is low as the roads were built following the
EFRC methods and mitigation measures recommended by the geotechnical studies were
implemented to minimize landslide hazards. Routine maintenance, which is one of the
top priorities of RGOB, is regularly executed through the National Workforce and
community contractors on the entire road network and is funded from the budget
specially designed for this purpose. The monsoon damage restoration budget is also
available to address damage to roads stemming from the annual monsoon rains. With the
support and commitment of RGOB to EFRC, the institutional capacity of DOR and other
road agencies continues to be strengthened to mainstream environmentally sustainable
approach in the construction of roads, including forest and farm roads. However, DOR
needs to improve its technical and resource capacities in order to enforce quality
assurance in future road projects. Risk to the sustainability of the community-based road
maintenance contracting is moderate. Communities increasingly are experiencing a
shortage of labor as they have to contribute to the implementation of many development
activities being implemented at the community level ­ many of which have been made
possible through increased access using new roads.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA's performance at the identification and preparation stage is rated satisfactory. Since
the project was IDA's first rural access project in Bhutan , the team conducted rigorous
preparations. The project design took into consideration not only lessons from rural road
projects supported by the Bank in other countries, but also the unique set of
circumstances in Bhutan, and RGOB's environmental and rural infrastructure policies and
commitment to the preservation of the natural and cultural environment. While the
project design was simple and realistic, a more rigorous geo-technical risk analysis could
have been carried out before effectiveness. This would have led to implementing
geological works at the start of the civil works, and delays in works completion on some
of the road stretches could have been avoided.


                                                16

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA's performance during the project supervision is rated satisfactory. The team acted
proactively in identifying problems that hindered project implementation and developing
solutions. Such a proactive approach as well as close collaboration with the other parties
concerned (Borrower, implementing agency, partner ( SNV) and contractors) allowed for
the prompt addressing of delays in works, improved progress and quality of work, and the
introduction and use of a geotechnical study as a pre-requisite for the start of road
construction.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of IDA is rated satisfactory, considering the above assessment
with the outcome ratings given in Section 10.1.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower's performance during the preparation and implementation is rated
satisfactory . The project development objectives were in close alignment with the
priorities of RGOB. The Government's ownership of and commitment to the project was
strong. The Borrower promoted the establishment of an environment to foster growth and
increased capacity of the private construction sector, and supported the adoption of the
EFRC methods as a mandatory requirement for road construction in its environmental
policy. Senior officials of the Ministry made frequent site visits to oversee the progress of
work.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency             Performance

                   The performance of the implementing agency - the Department of
                   Roads - is rated satisfactory. DOR management and staff implemented
                   the project professionally and with high quality standards. Despite the
                   fact that many of the approaches in the project were new, including
Ministry of
Communications     EFRC and contracting, DOR made significant strides to mainstream
                   these approaches in their work procedures. DOR engineers were
                   sufficiently competent to address technical issues. Environmental
                   management capacity continues to improve with the establishment of
                   the Investigation and Development Division together with its


                                                17

                   Environmental and Geotechnical Units. Earlier lax supervision by the
                   PMU staff was later rectified by frequent site visits and proactive
                   supervision by DOR staff.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory, considering the above
assessment with the outcome rating given in Section 10.2

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

11.1. Development of the rural road network in Bhutan is an expensive, but unavoidable,
undertaking needed to facilitate economic development and poverty reduction. The
scarce and scattered population and mountainous terrain in Bhutan make investments in
feeder roads an expensive and costly proposition. However, the socio-economic impact
monitoring study of the RAP has revealed significant positive impacts on much of the
previously isolated rural population. Roads are crucial for boosting the rural economy
and improving the welfare of rural populations. Road access facilitates other
development programs and services. Thus, such a costly investment is unavoidable in
order to achieve the country's poverty reduction goals.

11.2. The Bank and development partners can play an effective catalytic role in
mainstreaming environmentally sustainable road construction approaches if there is
demonstrated commitment of government. The success of EFRC introduction and
implementation in the RAP is due, in part, to RGOB's demonstrated commitment to
environmental protection and stringent policies which were in place when the project
started. The Country Systems Assessment conducted by the Bank recognized the
comprehensiveness of RGOB's environmental policies, and concluded that they would be
used to support the effective use of environmental safeguards in future Bank-supported
projects.

11.3. Geotechnical surveys (hazard spots assessments) should be carried out prior to the
start of construction. Geological surveys should be a prerequisite for each road
construction project in a mountainous country impacted by annual monsoon rains. It is
important to identify potential geological problems prior to the start of construction to
avoid costly remedial efforts later. Mitigation measures and other recommendations
suggested by the geotechnical survey should be fully integrated in the detailed design of
future roads.

11.4. A project should have a sufficient level of readiness for implementation before
being negotiated. At the onset, RAP suffered from a relatively low level of readiness, as
not all roads to be financed under the project had been fully designed by the time of
negotiations and subsequent Credit effectiveness.




                                             18

11.5. Quality assurance requires establishment of accountability mechanisms and
empowerment for decision-making. Responsibilities and roles should be clearly defined
and reporting linkages precisely determined and established between all concerned
parties (e.g., DOR Head Office, field offices, PMU and project site engineers). In
particular, de-concentrated implementation arrangements, as used in RAP, require that
project site engineers are empowered to make project-related decisions on site.

11.6. A vertically disintegrated system of contracting proved to be inefficient. The PMU
started with cumbersome contracting and awarded four separate contracts (opening of the
road, building of the structures, surfacing, and bioengineering) for the same stretch of
road. However, this resulted in increase in transaction costs to manage multiple contracts
and inefficient use of resources by contractors working on the same stretch. In
subsequent civil works, DOR decided to drop this approach and use an integrated
contracting system.

11.7. Project-related financial and accounting systems should strive to use country
systems when feasible. For accounting and reporting on project expenditures, DOR was
required to use a computerized financial management system designed to meet the
Bank's financial reporting requirements. However, its application was impeded by
several major problems, including the absence of IT support in the country, a lack of
system connection between DOR Headquarters and field offices, and frequent power
outages. Later, RGOB developed and introduced its own accounting system, which has
required a second level of data entry and additional tasks for DOR accountants. The
follow-up RAP-II will use RGOB's system, which has been reconciled with that of the
Bank.




12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

DOR has prepared and submitted the implementation completion report on the RAP to
IDA team (enclosed in Annex 10).

The Implementing Agency's ratings of almost all aspects are one level above the World
Bank ICR's ratings. As this was the first rural road project implemented by DOR with the
financial support of the World Bank, the implementing agency analyzed the project
outcomes and experience from the historical progression point of view, while the Bank
ICR team compared it with its experience in other transport projects and other countries.

The Borrower's comments received on the ICR generally concur with the ICR team's
findings.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.


                                             19

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



The SNV, that provided TA to the project, has prepared and submitted its input for the
ICR (enclosed in Annex 11). It did not rate the project outcome, the performances of the
Bank and Borrower/Implementing Agency. Overall, the SNV considers the project
experience positive as "the cooperation between the Department of Roads, SNV and the
World Bank has been very fruitful".




                                           20

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective (PDO) was to improve the access of rural
communities to markets, schools, health centers and other economic and social
infrastructure in order to improve the quality of life and productivity of rural
communities. The project was also aimed to help strengthen institutional capacity for
implementing environmentally friendly approaches to improve rural access, community
involvement in rural roads selection and management, and improved infrastructure
maintenance. The PDO was to be achieved by financing sustainable maintenance and
rehabilitation of feeder roads and construction of economically justifiable feeder roads,
subject to the adoption of environmentally sustainable construction and maintenance
practices.

The PDO was to be monitored by the following indicators:

    A. Average travel time and transport costs in project areas (to be reduced by a
        minimum 50%)
    B. Reduced distance to health and education services;
    C. Higher enrollment of in primary and junior schools in the corridor of impact;
    D. Improved road maintenance system through involvement of local communities;
    E. Dzongkhag (district) rural access master plans prepared using participatory
        processes and endorsed by people's representatives;
    F. Wider acceptance of environmental safeguards in construction and maintenance
        practices.

A socioeconomic impact monitoring study was included in the design of the project to
assess the achievement of the above outcome indicators, as well as other more indirect
impacts of the project on beneficiary groups. The impact study included a baseline survey
before project implementation, and two repeat surveys on the same households and
communities during and after project works were carried out.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                         Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                            approval           Target        Completion or
                                           documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increase in the number of people within half-day walk to a motorable road.
Value         Beneficiary households 3400 beneficiary       Not           3,188 beneficiary
(quantitative Beneficiary households households are         applicable.   households.



                                             21

or            are within 1 to 3 days of within half-day walk
Qualitative)  walking to the nearest    to motorable road by
              road head.                EOP.
Date achieved 05/01/2003                06/30/2006            05/01/2003      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The target is achieved for 94%. Additional 583 households have been provided

achievement)  with access of a slightly more than half a day walk to the all-season roads.

Indicator 2 : Increase use of motorized transport, resulting in reduction in transport cost and
              travel time to key social and economic centers.
Value         Portaging and animal                                            50-75% reduction
(quantitative transport only -- very    50% reduction in      Not             in transport costs
or            high transport costs and  transport costs and   applicable.     and 75% reduction
Qualitative)  travel time.              travel time.                          in travel time.
Date achieved 05/01/2003                06/30/2006            05/01/2003      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The transport cost reduction target is achieved for 125%. The travel time

achievement)  reduction target is achieved for 150%.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                      Original Target        Formally          Actual Value

  Indicator     Baseline Value         Values (from           Revised           Achieved at

                                   approval documents)        Target      Completion or Target
                                                              Values                Years
Indicator 1 : Construction of 129 km of feeder roads.
Value         Adding 122 km of
(quantitative feeder roads to the 122 km of feeder        Not
or            Bhutan road         roads.                  applicable.     129 km.

Qualitative)  network.
Date achieved 05/01/2000          06/30/2006              05/01/2000      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The target is achieved for 108%.
achievement)

Indicator 2 : Capacity development for environment-friendly road construction (EFRC)
              method.

Value                             Wider acceptance and                    Wider acceptance of

(quantitative EFRC-method not adoption of EFRC            Not             and adoption of EFRC

or            used in road        method as RGOB          applicable.     method as RGOB

Qualitative)  construction.       policy for all road                     policy for all road
                                  construction.                           construction.
Date achieved 05/01/2000          06/30/2006              05/01/2000      06/30/2006
Comments      The target is achieved for 90%, because the EFRC method is adopted as the
(incl. %      RGOB policy, and the country is starting mainstreaming it in other road projects,
achievement) including farm and forest roads.




                                                22

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     23

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                             Appraisal
              Components                  Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                                M)        Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

Feeder Road Construction                           12.50              12.60        100.80
Office & Transport Equipment                        0.26               0.72        276.92
Project Management Assistance &
Training & Institutional Strengthening &            2.10               1.40         66.67
Studies
Incremental Operating Costs                         0.00               0.06
                    Total Baseline Cost            14.86              14.78
Physical Contingencies                              0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00
                     Total Project Costs           14.86
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                  0.00               0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00               0.00          0.00
             Total Financing Required              14.86              14.78



(b) Financing


                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds                Type of                               Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing    Estimate   Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD M)           M)         Appraisal

  Borrower                                              2.32             2.45      105.60
  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                            11.60            11.33       97.67
ASSOCIATION
  NETHERLANDS:
NETHERLANDS
DEVELOPMENT                                             1.00             1.00      100.00

ASSOCIATION


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                              24

25

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The project consisted of three components and the following outputs were delivered
under each of the components:

A) The Construction of 8 New Priority Feeder Roads following Environmentally
Friendly Road Construction (EFRC) methods (US$12.6 million):

1) The construction of Dakpai-Buli Road feeder road of 36.6 km length in Zhemgang
Dzongkhag was completed in April 2005. The road has linked villages, which had been
about two-day walking distance from the nearest road before the project, and has
benefited 792 households (7,128 people). Community maintenance contracting was
piloted on the first 15 km of the road. The contract was awarded to the Kikhar
community that lives along this road. The contract has been renewed for another year and
is to expire in November 2006.

2) The construction of Praling-Gomphu School road of 8.7 km length in Zhemgang
Dzongkhag was completed in October 2005. The road has connected Gomphu village
with Trongsa-Gelephu national highway and has benefited 263 houesholds (2,367
people).

3) The construction of Lhuentse-Dungkhar road of 39.8 km length Lhuentse Dzongkhag
was completed in April 2006. It has linked Lhuentse and Dungkhar villages and
benefited 788 households (7,092 people).

4) The construction of Gomkora-Tomizangtsa road of 12.4 km length in Trashi Yangtse
Dzongkhag was completed in February 2006. The road has benefited 403 households
(2,821 people).

5) The construction of Bartsam-Ramjar road of 7. 6 km length in Trashi Yangtse
Dzongkhag was completed in May 2006. The road has benefited 151 households (1,204
people).

6) The construction of Bartsam-Bidung road of 9 km length in Trashigang Dzongkhag
was completed in May 2006. It has benefited 855 households (6,840 people).

7) The construction of Mukazor-Tshogonpa road of 7.4 km length in Trashigang
Dzongkhag was completed in June 2006. It has benefited 220 households (1,760 people).

8) The construction of Yadi-Shershong road of 7.2 km length in Mongar Dzongkhag was
completed in March 2006. It has benefited 299 households (2,093 people).

All these project roads were selected from the priority list included in the 8th Five Year
Plan, based on extensive community-level consultation and analysis of overall economic
importance.
After the construction completion, the contractors handed over the roads to the DOR for



                                            26

routine maintenance, which is arranged through the National Workforce, petty
contractors and community contractor (first 15 km of Dakpai-Buli road).

B) Office and Transport Equipment for DOR (US$0.72 million). This included
procurement of survey and laboratory equipment, office equipment and vehicles to
provide logistic support for project monitoring and supervision. Additional safety
barriers were procured using the project savings. The installation of these barriers is
being funded from RGOB's budget.

C) Project management assistance, training and institutional strengthening (technical
assistance) (US$1.4 million). This component introduced an Environmentally Friendly
Road Construction (EFRC) concept and built the capacity of DOR to implement more
environmentally friendly approaches to improve rural access, promote community
involvement in rural road selection and management, and ensure sustainable rural road
maintenance. DOR has established a new division - Investigation and Development
Division (IDD), which consists of Environmental and Geotechnical Units. The main
responsibilities of the IDD include (i) undertaking the development of standard
specifications and quality assurance requirements, (ii) field investigations for the
compliance with the standards, (iii) geotechnical investigation and support, and (iv)
environmental safeguard aspects. All training programs were completed, including post-
graduate studies, short-term courses, and study tours. The training course covered
contract and construction management, procurement, financial management, and
environmentally friendly construction methods. This component also supported the pilot
community contracting on the first 15 km of Dakpai-Buli road.




                                            27

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The economic analysis of the project involved two approaches: cost effectiveness and
socioeconomic Impact Monitoring Study. This annex repeats the cost-effectiveness analyses
carried out during appraisal, and summarizes the main finding of the socioeconomic impact
monitoring studies.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
At the preparation stage, the project team recognized that collecting socio-economic data for each
project rural road for estimating its economic rate of return (ERR) would be difficult and
expensive and the project roads would be low-volume roads with fewer than 30 vehicles per day.
Thus, the team decided to use only one road - Dakpai-Buli - as a model to estimate needed
investment per capita (per beneficiary) into a road to deliver a 12 percent ERR, in view of the
difficulty of repeating such detailed studies for all project roads and the access problems and
economic conditions being similar in the service areas of the other project roads. When estimating
an ERR of the project, the team also included quantifiable social and economic benefits: transport
cost savings, improved agricultural production and net additional agricultural income, improved
enrolment levels in schools and related net incremental life-time income of the additional persons
receiving education, and health benefits (reduced number of sick days and deaths) from improved
access to health centers. The direct beneficiaries were estimated using the population of directly
benefiting villages and increasing this number by about 10 percent to include other beneficiaries
who would directly benefit from trade with or visits to the newly-accessible areas.

The PAD estimated that Dakpai-Buli road (37 km costing about US3.6 million with about 8,000
direct beneficiaries) would produce an ERR of above 15 percent, which amounted to an
investment of about US$ 450 per capita. Based on the Dakpai-Buli road analysis, the investment of
US$560 per beneficiary corresponding to an ERR of 12 percent was accepted as the threshold for
economic viability of the project roads. The appraisal suggested using in exceptional cases a norm
of US$650 per beneficiary (corresponding to 10 percent ERR) since a minimum of 10 percent
ERR was acceptable for such project investments, in view of their many social and economic
benefits which had not been quantified (such as keeping the rural population from migrating away
from rural farms to towns).

The ICR calculations show that actual average investment per beneficiary for all project
roads was US$365, which means that the delivered ERR was higher than the ERR estimated
at appraisal. The per beneficiary investment ranged from US$210 to US$603 (Table 1). The
Lhuentse-Dungkhar road had the highest investment per beneficiary (US$603) due to escalation of
costs and additional civil works which were undertaken to address geological and geotechnical
problems caused by the heavy monsoon season in 2004. However, the investment was still within
the norm suggested for exceptional cases - US$650 per beneficiary - and the ERR for this road is
estimated at around 11 percent.

Table 1. Investment per beneficiary into the project roads

                                    Length,           Latest Estimate     Number of    Investment per
                                      km             Nu           US$    Beneficiaries beneficiary, US$
 Civil Works                         128.76     557,802,736 12,569,352.75      34,434               365



                                                 28

 Construction of Dakpal-Buli       36.6
 Road                                        124,411,717  2,803,454.79         7,840             358
 Construction of Lhuentse          39.8
 Dungkhar Road                               208,612,168  4,700,801.47         7,801             603
 Construction of other feeder      32.38
 roads                                       134,167,019  3,023,277.73        14,366             210
 Construction of Trashi            19.98
 Yangste Road                                90,611,833   2,041,818.76         4,427             461
 Note: Exchange rate: US$1=Nu 44


Summary of Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring Study

This section is based on the findings of the socio-economic monitoring study conducted by the
Social Consultant and the findings of the World Bank ICR mission team. The ICR team visited the
Dakpai-Buli and Gomphu road corridors and held discussions with the rural beneficiaries on the
project outcomes. The socioeconomic impact study reports are in project files.

The Social Consultant conducted a baseline, intermediate and final monitoring surveys of the
project impacts in the eight project road corridors. The comparison of the monitoring results before
and after the project implementation allow identifying the RAP induced impacts, as well as
determining the extent of these impacts on the project beneficiaries. For some of the indicators, the
monitoring study covered not only the project affected villages, but also two control villages,
which were not affected by the project. This approach enabled determining whether the identified
changes were induced by the RAP solely or by the RAP in combination with other factors.
Overall, it was recognized by both the ICR mission team and the social consultant that the RAP
has brought significant benefits to the rural communities, which are described in detail below.

Transport Benefits

Emergence of motorized transport services. The newly-constructed roads under the RAP
facilitated the emergence of public and private transport services by buses, trucks and taxis for the
project-affected beneficiaries. Before the construction of these roads, farmers had to rely either on
porters or horses/mules to transport their produce to the markets. Often they had incurred losses of
up to 50 percent of their produce by the time they reached the market. In addition, rural residents,
especially housewives and schoolchildren, were often disrupted during agricultural seasons, as
they were required to contribute free labor for the transportation of rations to schools and supplies
to basic health units. Porterage and horse/mule transportation did not guarantee timely and safe
delivery of supplies, which in turn affected the provision of health and school services.

Motorized transport services (by taxi, truck, or bus) are now available on most of the roads;
regular bus services - 5 times a day - have been arranged on Dakpai-Buli. A majority of the
project beneficiaries prefer using taxi, truck or bus to carry goods and supplies, as they have
recognized motorized transport as more time and cost efficient than animal transport or porterage.
However, some of the rural residents continue hiring horses/mules or porters where motorized
transport services are not available yet.

A significant growth of motorized vehicle ownership was reported in the six out of the eight
project road corridors by the closure of the RAP. Before the project only 2 cars and 4 two-


                                             29

wheelers had been registered in these project areas, while now there are 1 DCM truck, 8 cars, 13
two-wheelers and 1mahindra pick-up truck are registered in the same project areas. Since 2003-04,
the motorized traffic volume has increased by 25 percent, transportation of goods by motorized
vehicles has increased by 39 percent and transportation of passengers by 45 percent, on average,
on Dakpai-Buli, Lhuentse-Dungkar, and Gomkora-Tomijangsa roads (Table 2).

Table 2. Traffic volume in 2003-04 and its growth rate by 2006


                               2003-2004                               2006                              Increase, %

                 Traffic     Tonnage                    Traffic    Tonnage                     Traffic Tonnage
                 per day    (Kg)/day   Passengers/day   per day    (Kg)/day   Passengers/day     per              Passengers/day
                                                                                                 day   (Kg)/day

  Dakpai-Buli      14        14537          41             16       21890           70            13     34            41
  Lhuntse-
  Dungkar          13        12667          17             20       21946           46            35     42            63

  Gomkora-
  Tomijangsa        6         4540          13             8        8100            13            25     44             0

  Total            33        31744          71             44       51936          129            25     39            45


Reduction in travel time. As a result of the road accessibility and transport service availability, the
travel time has been recorded declining by 76 percent on average. The travel time to reach markets
and hospitals has fallen down by 73 percent and 79 percent, correspondingly (Table 3 and Table
4). Before the construction of the new feeder roads, residents of Buli had to spend a day to reach
town markets in Dakpai, while now it takes only 2 hours by bus or taxi to get to Dakpai. In
addition, Buli residents do not need to go to the market in Dakpai, as 12 new shops have opened in
their village and most of the needed commodities are available, with very little difference in prices
with Dapkpai.

The travel time of children to schools has not significantly been affected in most of the project
villages. The primary reason is that the RGOB built schools in almost every village, regardless the
road accessibility. The second reason is that children, who do not have school in their home village
and have to go to school in another village, cannot afford bus services to that village on a daily
basis and typically take a bus at the start and end of the week. However, the project has benefited
children from Kikhar village, who go to school in Buli. These children take a bus to Buli at the
beginning of the week, stay at the boarding school there for 6 days and come back home by bus for
the weekend. Earlier they had to walk around 6 or more hours to reach school in Buli, now it takes
them around an hour to get there.

Table 3. Travel time from the project and control villages to the market before and after the project


        From the village to the market        Travel time Before the    Travel time After the project   Reduction in
                                                  project (on foot)       (by motorized transport)     travel time, %
  From Buli to Dakpai                                  6 hrs                       2 hrs                    67%
  From Kikhar to Dakpai                                2 hrs                      45 min                    63%
  From Gangzoor to Lhuentse                            1 hr                       10 min                    83%
  From Thimyul to Lhuentse                             4 hrs                      45 min                    81%
  From Rotpa to Lhuentse                               5 hrs                        1 hr                    60%
  From Ramjar to Duksum                                2 hrs                      1.5 hrs                   25%
  From Tomizangtsa to Duksum                           2 hrs                      30 min                    75%
  From Pang to Duksum                                  3 hrs                      30 min                    83%
  From Kenmong to Duksum                               3 hrs                      30 min                    83%
  From Muktankhar to Trashigang                        2 hrs                      25 min                    79%
  From Bartsham to Trashigang                          3 hrs                      35 min                    81%
  From Bidung to Rangjung                              2 hrs                        1 hr                    50%



                                                        30

  From Dorey to Rangjung                                      2 hrs                           1 hr                50%
  From Thrumming to Wamrong                                 3.30 hrs                        30 min                85%
  From Tshogonpa to Wamrong                                   3 hrs                         30 min                83%
  From Khaimanma to Wamrong                                   3 hrs                         30 min                83%
  From Panthangzor to Wamrong                               3.30 hrs                        30 min                85%
  From Gomphu to Praling                                      2 hrs                         20 min                83%
  From Shoenakhar to Yadi                                     5 hrs                         30 min                90%
  From Shershong to Yadi                                      4 hrs                         30 min                88%
  From Muhung to Yadi                                         4 hrs                         15 min                94%
  From Jabgang to Yadi                                        5 hrs                         30 min                90%
  Average reduction in travel time to the
  market                                                                                                          73%


Table 4. Travel time to the Basic Health Units (BHUs) and hospitals before and after the project

                                                        Before the project              After the project      Reduction in
  From the village to BHU and hospital                       (on foot)              (by motorized transport)  travel time, %
  From Thimyul to Hospital in Lhuentse                          4 hrs                       45 min                81%
  From Rotpa to Hospital in Lhuentse                            5 hrs                         1 hr                80%
  From Ramjar to Hospital in Trashi Yangtse                  1.5 days*                      30 min                96%
  From Tomizangtsa to Hospital in Trashi Yangtse             1.5 days*                        2 hrs               83%
  From Thrumming to BHU in Moshi                              1.30 hr                       15 min                83%
  From Khaimanma to BHU in Moshi                             1.30 hrs                       15 min                83%
  From Tshogonpa to BHU in Moshi                              1.30 hr                       15 min                83%
  From Panthangzor to BHU in Moshi                              2 hrs                       20 min                83%
  From Pang to Hospital in Trashi Yangtse                     1 day*                          2 hrs               75%
  From Kenmong to Hospital in Trashi Yangtse                  1 day*                          2 hrs               83%
  From Muktankhar to Hospital in Trashigang                     2 hrs                       25 min                79%
  From Bartsham to Hospital in Trashigang                       3 hrs                       35 min                81%
  From Bidung to Hospital in Trashigang                         5 hrs                         1 hr                80%
  From Dorey to Hospital in Trashigang                          5 hrs                         1 hr                80%
  From Gomphu to Hospital in Yebilepcha                         7 hrs                         2 hrs               71%
  From Thrumming to Hospital in Riserboo                      3.10 hr                       25 min                87%
  From Tshogonpa to Hospital in Riserboo                      2.40 hr                       25 min                83%
  From Khaimanma to Hospital in Riserboo                     2.40 hrs                       25 min                83%
  From Panthangzor to Hospital in Riserboo                      3 hrs                       25 min                86%
  From Shoenakhar to Hospital in Mongar                       1 day*                          3 hrs               63%
  From Shershong to Hospital in Mongar                        1 day*                          3 hrs               63%
  From Muhung to Hospital in Mongar                           1 day*                          2 hrs               75%
  From Jabgang to Hospital in Mongar                          1 day*                          3 hrs               63%

  Average reduction in travel time to BHUs                                                                        83%

  Average reduction in travel time to Hospitals                                                                   79%
  * Note: For the calculation purpose, 1 day of walking on foot was estimated at 8 hours.


Reduction in transport cost. The road accessibility and emergence of motorized transport have led
to a significant decline in transport costs in the project areas. Table 5 shows that transport costs
for different supplies and products has been reduced by 75 percent on the Lhuentse-Dhunkhar and
Dakpai-Buli corridors before the opening of the roads in 2002 and after in 2004/ 2006. (Tariffs for
bus and taxi services are regulated by the government, and even if more competing transport
service providers emerge on these corridors, tariffs may not be affected immediately).

The survey respondents in other project areas have also confirmed that "transport expenses have
been reduced since it is cheaper and faster to transport goods by vehicle". For instance, before
Gomkora-Tomizangtsen road was constructed it cost Nu. 100 to haul a load of about 30-35 kg
from Duksum to Tomijansa, while now the taxi or bus charges only Nu. 300 to transport a load of
400 kg, which is 4 times (or 75 percent) less than before. Another example is Bartsam-Bidung
road, where the transport cost of school supplies has reduced by about 50 percent. Before it cost
Nu. 35,000 to transport one-truck load from Ranjung to Bidung using porters and horses, while


                                                                31

now it costs only Nu.17,000 to transport the same load by truck. During the visit of the Kikhar and
Buli villages on the Dakpai-Buli road corridor, the ICR mission team was informed that the cost
for Kikhar residents to carry a sack of potato to Dakpai declined from Nu. 150 to Nu. 10 and for
Buli residents it declined from Nu. 300 to Nu. 50.

Table 5. Transport costs before and after the construction of the new roads
(a) Lhuentse-Dungkhar road, Lhuentse


                                      2002                             2004

                           Transport costs per 1 Ton, Nu. Transport costs per 1 Ton, Nu.  Decline in transport costs, %
  Construction materials                 2,857                         643                              78
  Fertilizers & Pesticides               2,857                         600                              79
  Seed Potato                            2,862                         364                              87
  Rice                                   2,862                         1231                             57

  Average                                                                                             75%


(b) Dakpai-Buli road, Zhemgang

                                         2002                            2006

                            Transport costs per 1 Ton, Nu. Transport costs per 1 Ton, Nu.   Decline in transport costs, %
  Ration (WFP) for schools              15,696                           6,000                           62
  School supplies                       12,280                           765                             94
  Medical supplies                       2,873                           526                             82
  Construction materials                 2,888                           731                             75
  Fertilizers & Pesticides               2,875                           818                             72
  Seed Potato                            2,864                           1,000                           65

  Average                                                                                               75%


Increase in frequency of trips. The increasing trend in frequency of visits to the social and
economic services centers has been noticed in both the project affected and control villages,
which (Table 6). suggests that the improved rural accessibility was not the only factor
contributing to villagers' decision of making more frequent trips. However, the rate of increase for
traveling to markets and BHUs have been higher in project affected villages than in control ones.
This shows that the roads have been a key factor influencing households' decisions for traveling
more often to these places of destination. The monitoring study also indicates that markets have
been the most frequently visited places, as they have witnessed the highest increase in visits rate:
2.9%.

Table 6. Average frequency of visits by an average household to social and economic services places before and
after the project

                             Number of trips in project      Increase in      Number of trips in control    Increase in
                                       villages             frequency of              villages             frequency of
                            Before the         After the   trips in project   Before the     After the    trips in control
 Places of visit              project          project     villages, times      project        project     villages, times
 Markets                        8                 22              2.9             4              9.5             2.4
 BHU (Basic Health Units)       4.5               9               2               5              8.5             1.7
 Hospitals                      4                 7               1.7             3.5             7              2
 District Headquarters          4                 9               2.3             5.5           12.5             2.3
 RNR Centers                    4.6              10.6             2.3              -              -               -


Social Benefits

Increase in school enrolment. During the visit of to the communities on the Dakpai-Buli and


                                                          32

Gomphu road corridors, the ICR mission team was informed that overall school enrolment in
school did not increase as more schools are being built in neighboring villages in accordance with
the RGOB's policy. However, it was indicated that school enrolment has increased in the villages
that do not have schools as the new roads enabled families to send their children to schools in
other villages. For example, only 3-5 children from Kikhar village used to attend school in Buli
before the construction of Dakpai-Buli road, now 32 children from this village attend school, as
the access to school has become easier because of the availability of bus services between Kikhar
and Buli.

Improvement in social services and upgrading of infrastructure facilities. With the opening of the
new feeder roads, the social services institutions have been able to improve their services and
upgrade their facilities. Linked by roads, the BHUs receive medical supplies and upgraded
equipment in a timely manner. Before the roads were constructed, the BHUs had to hire porters to
carry the load from the nearest village where the delivery from the general hospital would be left.
That implied transport expenses for BHUs. Now the trucks deliver the medical supplies and
equipment right to the door of the BHUand the delivery does not incur any transport expenses for
the BHU. Another key benefit the roads have brought is timely transportation of critical patients to
general/referral hospitals, as ambulances can easily access the villages by the newly-built feeder
roads. The monitoring study reports the reduced number of sick days and fewer incidences of
maternity and other deaths, which are attributable to improved delivery of health care services and
easier access to health facilities.

Similar to the BHUs, schools have also benefited from the improved rural accessibility. The roads
have enabled transportation of construction materials and many of the schools have started or plan
upgrading and expanding their facilities. For instance, Gomphu school (on the Gomphu road
corridor) has replaced banana leaf roof with CGI sheets; Tshogonpa Primary School on the
Mukazor-Tshogonpa road corridor is constructing additional four classrooms. Overall, the new
roads enabled to upgrade three schools out of total nine in the project areas from primary to low
secondary schools: two on Gomkora-Tomizangtsa and one on Bartsam-Ramjar road corridor.
There are also plans to upgrade additional two schools from primary to low secondary on Dakpai-
Buli and Lhuentse-Dungkar road corridors, build a new primary school, a middle secondary school
and a pre-college school on Lhuentse-Dungkar road corridor.

Agricultural Benefits

Change in the cropping pattern. With improved access to the markets and loan services, farmers
have been able to upgrade their tools, purchase new machinery and agricultural input materials
(e.g., fertilizers, new seeds, seedlings). As a result, they have diversified their agricultural
products, from mostly cereal and rice production, to high-valued vegetables (e.g., broccoli,
cauliflower), fruits (e.g., walnut, orange), cash crops, e.g. chili pepper, citrus, potatoes. In some
project affected villages, farmers have reduced land areas under cereal and expanded for orchards
and new cash crops, which are in higher demand at the neighboring markets. Most of the farmers
have increased the number of fruit trees and even introduced new sorts of fruit trees (e.g., orange,
pear, peach, walnut, apple).

Displacement of porters and increase in the number of full-time farmers. The monitoring study has



                                              33

recorded the declining trend in hiring porters or animal transport to carry agricultural and farm
produce to the markets and a growing trend in transporting the produce by a motorized vehicle.
This implies the displacement of porters. Although this may be considered as a negative impact of
the improved rural accessibility at first glance, the local residents consider this as a positive
impact, because former porters have turned to farming and agriculture activities on a full-time
basis and enjoy increase in crop yields and annual income. Overall, the results of the monitoring
study indicate that the proportion of farmers has grown from 47% before the construction of the
roads up to 51% since the opening of the roads in the project areas.

Economic Benefits

Growth of trade. The new roads have opened more marketing opportunities for farmers and
contributed to the growth of the number of consumers, which in turn has led to an increase in
demand for agricultural produce. The farmers have started selling their produce along the roads to
travelers, contractors, laborers, school staff and geog officials. Specifically, the sale of maize,
fruits, potato, and other vegetables has increased and the demand for these products continues
growing. Farmers have shared their plans of expanding areas for these crops, purchasing more
improved sorts of vegetable seeds, fruit tree seedlings (peach, pear, citrus, walnuts, others), and
fertilizers. The sale of cheese and butter has also gone up, particularly in the areas where farmers
acquired more lactating cows of improved breeds. Overall, the proportion of businessmen/traders
has increased from 1% to 2% since the opening of the new roads (Table 7). 12 new shops have
been operating on Dakpai-Buli corridor, while there was only one on this corridor before the road
construction. Gomphu had no shop at all earlier; now it has already one shop.

Table 7. Professional profile of the sample respondents that participated in the socio-economic monitoring
survey before and after the project implementation


                             Total, No                   Total, %
 Occupation              Before        After      Before           After
 Farmers                   990          883          47             51
 Students                  658          511          31             29
 Civil Servants            238          139          11              8
 Housewives                138           79          7               5
 Businessmen/traders        21           29          1               2
 Army servants              27           29          1               2
 Monks                      59           67          3               4
                Total     2131         1737        100*            100*
 *Because of rounding the numbers, the total may not be equal to 100.


Increase in revenues from home-grown agricultural produce. Although the prices for certain
produce remained the same or have dropped down slightly (e.g., maize) in some of the project
areas, the overall volume and income from the sale of the home-grown produce have increased
(Table 8 ).

Table 8. Revenue (per year) from the sale of home-grown produce before and after the project

                             Gomphu                  Lhuentse-Dungkhar             Bartsam-Bidung
     Commodities       Revenue        Increase,     Revenue        Increase,     Revenue        Increase,
                    Before  After        %      Before    After       %      Before  After         %




                                                    34

  Maize, kg                160   3500       2088     4000     9520       138   11340    41650        267
  Rice, kg                                                                         0    52375
  Potato, kg                     9000                        53900                 0    26200
  Chilli, kg                     37500                       43600             1000     24090       2309
  Vegetables, kg          9000  198000      2100             15600             19786    70050        254
  Butter, kg              3000   4800         60              5400
  Cheese, No              2500   6000        140     5620   9672.5         72
  Fruits, No (walnuts)                                                          990      1200          21
                         Gomkora-Tomizangtsa            Bartsam-Ramjar              Yadi-Shershong
   Commodities           Revenue       Increase,     Revenue        Increase,    Revenue        Increase,
                      Before  After       %       Before   After       %      Before   After       %
  Maize, kg           10008    15000          50   11200    22950        105   7900    18200         130
  Rice, kg                 0       0                         5000                      37500
  Potato, kg          90300   162800          80                                      378900
  Chilli, kg                   41340                        44000                     132000
  Vegetables, kg      60000    88250          47   45900    43750          -5  33535   84000         150
  Butter, kg                                                                   93100  120000           29
  Cheese, No                                                                   21000   30000           43
  Fruits, No
  (oranges)                                                                    8450   121400        1337


Reduction in prices for consumption commodities at the beneficiary villages. The rural road
accessibility has contributed to a reduction in prices for commodities in the beneficiary villages
and made them more affordable to the rural residents living far away from the main town markets.
The prices in the project villages are very close to the prices in the town market - within 10 percent
range, on average. However, the prices for commodities in the villages, which are not connected
by road, are significantly higher than in the connected villages or at the main town market. For
instance, residents of Buli, which is now linked by road with the town of Dakpai, pay 4 percent
more for rice than at the town market, while the residents of the control village Nymshong pay 10
percent more than in Buli or 14 percent more than at the town market (Table 9).

Table 9. Prices for commodities in the town market, project village and control village

                                                                                Price
                                           Price in  Price in   Price           difference

 Commodities           Unit    Price in    Buli/     Nyim-      difference      between           Price difference
                               Dakpai      Tali      shong      between         Dakpai &          between
                               (main       (project (control Dakpai &           Nyimshong,        Buli/Tali &
                               market) village)      village)   Buli/Tali, %    %                 Nyimshong, %
 Rice                 Kg          14         14.5       16             4              14                 10
 Cooking oil          Liters      46          50        55             9              20                 10
 Sugar                Kg          22          25        28            14              27                 12
 Fish                 Kg          72          78        82             8              14                  5
 Salt                 Kg          6            7         9            17              50                 29
 Soap                 Piece       6            7         8            17              33                 14
 Dry chilli           Kg          56          60        65             7              16                  8
 Tea leaves           Kg         112         120        130            7              16                  8
 Torch cell           Pairs       20          22        25            10              25                 14
                      50 kg
 Cement               bag        220         225         -             2               -                  -




                                                      35

Increase in income from sale of produce and trade, and decrease in income from porterage and
animal transportation. The animal transportation and portage has almost completely been replaced
by motorized transportation and income from these activities has tremendously declined,
especially for the portage - by 75%, on average (Table 10). However, the sale of agricultural
produce and trade have grown and have contributed enormously to a significant increase in the
household income. As the monitoring study results show an income from sale of agricultural
produce has risen by 64% and an income from trade by 40%. In addition, because of improved
rural accessibility, income from remittances has also increased by almost 50%.

Table 10. Average annual income from certain economic activities in the project affected areas before and after
the project


        Sources of income                 Average total                    Average
                                       Before         After         increase/decline*
 Sale of agriculture produce          28,77.25      7,888.88                 64%
 Business/trade                      14,296.38        23,910                 40%
 Remittances                           5,481        10,532.25                48%
 Horse transportation of goods        2,850.13       2,387.5                 16%*
 Porterage                            2,375.57        593.57                 75%*

Increase in annual household income. According to the data collected during the impact
monitoring study, an annual household income has increased by 25%, on average, in the project
affected areas. (Table 11). The minimum increase was recorded in the Gomkora-Tonizangtsen and
Gomphu road corridor: 11% and 12%, accordingly. The impact monitoring study reports a slight
increase in the proportion of households whose annual income passed the Nu. 20,000 threshold
and whose annual income is within the Nu.5001-10,000 range, while the proportion of households
whose income is below Nu.5,000 has slightly declined. Before the project, 26% of the surveyed
households earned more than Nu.20,000 and 24% earned between Nu.5,000-10,000 per year,
while now 28 percent of the surveyed households has an annual income over Nu.20,000 and 25
percent has between Nu. Nu.5,000-10,000. The proportion of surveyed households whose income
is below Nu.5,000 has declined from 17 percent to 13 percent.

Table 11. Average annual household income before and after the project and number of households belonging
to different income categories before and after the project

                             Income, Nu             Proportion of the surveyed HHs belonging to different income categories

                                                              Before                                       After
                                      increase, Nu. 0-  5001-       10001-              Nu. 0-     5001-      10001-
                      Before   After     %       5000   10000       20000     >20000    5000       10000      20000     >20000
 Dakpai-Buli          17,116  21,262     24       29      40          29        3         32         32         22         15
 Lhuentse-Dungkhar    12,359  19,138     55       29      21          24        26        14         34         29         23
 Gomkora-Tomizangtsen 27,762  30,811     11       21      21          24        34        14         14         28         45
 Bartsam & 8211;
 Bidung               16,250  21,362     31       27      22          33        18        22         27         29         22
 Mukazor-Tshogonpa    13,745  18,533     35       2       14          36        48        0          11         50         39
 Yadi-Shershong       19,147  23,939     25       11      35          32        22        10         37         29         25
 Gomphu               15,203  17,053     12       3       6           63        28        3          9          56         31
 Average              17,369  21,728     25       17      24          34        26        13         25         34         28


Note: Bartsam-Ramjar road data was excluded from the analysis due to the data inaccuracy in that road corridor.



                                                  36

Contribution to poverty alleviation in the project affected areas. The results of the socio-economic
monitoring study presented in Table 12 confirm that this project has contributed to poverty
reduction in the areas of its influence. After the villages were connected by the feeder roads the
proportion of income spent on food has declined, while the income of households has increased.
Before the project, food expenditures constituted 23% of an average annual household income,
while now they represent only 13%, on average.

Table 12. Food expenditures per year as a share of average annual household income

                                            Before the project                                             After the project
                                         Average                                                        Average
                         Average         annual food       Average annual food        Average           annual food      Average annual food
                         annual HH       expenditures,     expenditures, as %         annual HH         expenditures,    expenditures, as %
                         income, Nu      Nu                of income                  income, Nu        Nu               of income
 Dakpai-Buli                 17,116           3,546                   21                  21,262            4,046                 19
 Gomphu                      15,203           3,969                   26                  17,053            3,697                 22
 Lhuentse-Dungkhar           12,359           2,395                   19                  19,138            1,977                 10
 Bartsam & 8211;
 Bidung                      16,250           6,479                   40                  21,362            3,418                 16
 Mukazor-Tshogonpa           13,745           2,844                   21                  18,533            3,309                 18
 Gomkora-Tomizangtsa         27,762           2,370                   09                  30,811            2,374                 08
 Yadi-Shershong              19,147           2,732                   14                  23,939            2,671                 11
 Average                     16,676           3,598                   23                  26,093            2,891                 13
Note: Bartsam-Ramjar road data was excluded from the analysis due to the data inaccuracy in that road corridor.


Transport costs as a proportion of annual household income has also fallen down. Before the roads
were constructed, the rural residents along the Dakpai-Buli and Lhuentse-Dungkhar road corridors
had to spend around 23 percent of their annual income to transport one ton of construction
materials, fertilizers, seed potatoes or rice (Table 13 (a) and (b)). With the road opening, costs for
transporting one tone of any of these commodities now represent around 5 percent of annual
household income.

Table 13. Transport costs for some commodities as a proportion of average annual household income

(a) Dakpai-Buli road, Zhemgang

                                                   Before                                                          After
                                                                          Transport                            Transport      Transport costs
                          Annual HH           Transport costs per        costs as % of      Annual HH          costs per 1      as % of HH
                             income               1 Ton, Nu.             HH income            income           Ton, Nu.           income
 Lhuentse-
 Dungkhar road,
 Lhuentse                    12,359                                                            19138
 Construction
 materials                                           2,857                           23                           643                        3
 Fertilizers &
 Pesticides                                          2,857                           23                           600                        3

 Seed Potato                                         2,862                           23                           364                        2

 Rice                                                2,862                           23                          1231                        6


(b) Lhuentse-Dungkhar road, Lhuentse
                                               Before                                                           After
                     Annual HH        Transport costs      Transport costs as       Annual HH         Transport costs       Transport costs as
                        income         per 1 Ton, Nu.       % of HH income            income           per 1 Ton, Nu.        % of HH income
  Dakpai-Buli,
  Zhemgang              17,116                                                         21,262




                                                              37

  Construction
  materials                      2,888                   23                  731                  4
  Fertilizers &
  Pesticides                     2,875                   23                  818                  4

  Seed Potato                    2,864                   23                 1,000                 5


Conclusions. The newly-constructed feeder roads have provided many benefits. They include: (i)
easier access to social service facilities (schools, Basic Health Units and general hospitals),
improved social services and upgraded social facilities; (ii) faster and cheaper access to the
markets through provision of motorized transport services and reduction in transport costs, (iii)
opportunity of transporting construction materials (which porters and animal transport could not
handle) to upgrade and improve houses, school and health facilities; (iv) improvement of
marketability of perishable goods through timely and cheaper transport and a growing incentive
for more market-oriented agriculture, with more profitable cash crops, and (v) an increase in the
rural beneficiaries' income and employment.




                                               38

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Sita Ramakrishna
Addepalli              Environmental Spec.    SASES

Madhavan               Financial Management
Balachandran           Specialis              SARFM

Debabrata Chakraborti Sr Procurement Spec.    SARPS
Jaswant S. Channe      Consultant             SASEI
Surendra Govinda
Joshi                  Sr Transport. Spec.    SASEI

Zarafshan H. Khawaja Sr Social Scientist      SASES

Manvinder Mamak        Sr Financial
                       Management Specia      SARFM

Binyam Reja            Sr Transport. Econ.    SASEI
Kirtan Chandra Sahoo Environmental Spec.      SASES
Narayan D. Sharma      Consultant             SASEI
Natalya Stankevich     E T Consultant         SASEI


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO             IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   05/09/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            0.00
2   06/29/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            0.00
3   12/19/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            0.50
4   06/20/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            0.82
5   06/26/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            1.06
6   12/13/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            1.56
7   03/07/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            1.56
8   10/01/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            2.38
9   05/14/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            3.29
10 07/29/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            4.10
11 01/28/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            5.05
12 08/02/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            6.03
13 05/12/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            8.42
14 12/12/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            9.76
15 05/17/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           10.41


(c) Staff Time and Cost

            Stage of Project Cycle              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)


                                           39

                                                    USD Thousands
                               No. of staff weeks (including travel and
                                                    consultant costs)
Lending
                FY98                                             28.40
                FY99                                            122.86
                FY00                           29               108.06
                FY01                                             -0.07
                FY02                                              0.00
                FY03                                              0.00
                FY04                                              0.00
                FY05                                              0.00
                FY06                                              0.00
                FY07                                              0.00
                        Total:                 29               259.25
Supervision/ICR
                FY98                                              0.00
                FY99                                              0.00
                FY00                             7               42.14
                FY01                           10                51.33
                FY02                             4               50.38
                FY03                             9               61.33
                FY04                           15                90.62
                FY05                           15                73.46
                FY06                           17                81.89
                FY07                           15                41.33
                        Total:                 92               492.48




                            40

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         41

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

See summary of Socio-economic Impact Monitoring Study in Annex 5 (Economic
Analysis).




                                       42

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  43

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                        Royal Government of Bhutan
 MINISTRY OF WORKS & HUMAN SETTLEMENT
                 DEPARTMENT OF ROADS




                  RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
                          IDA: BHU 3309
                      THIMPHU: BHUTAN




                             Final Draft


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              JUNE 2006


                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


  1. Project Data
  2. Principal Performance Ratings
  3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of



                                  44

        Quality at the entry
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
    6. Sustainability
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance
    8. Lessons Learned
    9. Partner Comments
    10. Additional Information

3. Assessment of Development Objective, Design and of Quality at Entry
3.1Original objective

3.1.1 Background

Bhutan's development has been rapid and broadly shared. Up until the 1950s Bhutan was
isolated from the rest of the world, and its dispersed rural population was entirely dependent
upon subsistence agriculture. Once it opened up to the outside world in the 1960s, Bhutan
embarked upon a far reaching development strategy that has been articulated in successive
five year plans. On the basis of the development strategy articulated in these five year plans,
Bhutan has developed physical infrastructure of roads, power supply, telecommunications,
and water supply that now serves a growing shares of the population. At the same time the
Government has developed a social infrastructure of education and health services which
have, despite the difficult terrain and scattered population, greatly improved access to
education and health services. The Rural Access Project was conceived with the following
Development Objectives.

3.1.2 Project Development Objectives

The development objective of the project is to improve the access of rural communities to
markets, schools, health centers and other economic and social infrastructure, in order to
improve the quality of life and productivity of rural communities. The project will also help
strength institutional capacity for implementing environmentally friendly approaches to
improve rural access, community involvement in rural roads selection and management, and
improved infrastructure maintenance. These objectives reflect RGOB's policy of balanced
regional development and decentralization, and its dedication to environmentally sustainable
development. The project will initially focus on three selected Dzongkhags (districts),
where rural access problems are more acute. The project will promote a program approach;
accordingly, in addition to or in lieu of the initial list of roads selected and appraised, other
investments will be considered during the project according to RGoB's priorities as reflected
in their Five Year Plans, subject to their conforming to social, environmental and economic
criteria agreed between RGoB and IDA.

3.1.3 Clarity of Project Development Objectives

The project objectives will be monitored by the following indicators:


                                               45

    · Average travel time and transport costs in project area (to be reduced by a minimum
       50%),
    · Reduced distance to health and education services;
    · Higher enrollment of boys and girls in primary and junior high schools in corridor of
       impact,
    · Improved road maintenance system through involvement of local communities;
    · Dzongkhag rural access master plans prepared using participatory processes and
       endorsed by people's representatives; and
    · Wider acceptance of environmental safeguards in construction and maintenance
       practices.

The main objectives of the Department of Roads are to develop a regionally balanced
network that is safe, convenient and economical to use, and to preserve the past capital
investment in roads, reduce cost of vehicle operation and travel time of road users and
develop road construction and maintenance (resurfacing) capabilities in the private sector.
The main strategies include:

    · developing guidelines and practices for road design, construction and maintenance
       which cause minimum adverse impact to environment;
    · promoting larger private sector role in road construction maintenance through
       contracting;
    · development of a long term comprehensive road master plan;
    · developing a suitable pavement maintenance management system;
    · improving maintenance systems for rural road;
    · improving geometric features of roads to reduce accidents;
    · timely resurfacing of existing roads to reduce vehicle operating costs;
    · strengthening institutional capacity through further training and
    · Utilizing locally available materials and resources wherever possible.

3.2 Original Component:

3.2.1  Construction of 122 Km New Priority Feeder Roads :

    1. Construction of a feeder road of about 37 Km (Dakpai-Buli road) in Zhemgang
       Dzongkhag (linking village which are about 2 days walking distance from the nearest
       road) to be designed as a model for environmentally friendly road construction in
       Bhutan. The road will help integrate rural road development with the on-going
       Integrated Sustainable Development Program (ISDP funded by NEDA/RGoB), and
       with the proposed construction of a junior high school in the road area following
       road construction. The road will also support integration of mule trails for the more
       remote villages to the new road. It will also introduce community maintenance
       commitments for road stretches near beneficiary villages
    2. Construction of about 37 Km of feeder roads to link Lhuentse and Dungkhar
       villages, in the Lhuentse district using EFRC method.
    3. Construction of about 20 Km of feeder roads to link Gomkora-Tomzhangtsen,



                                             46

       Tsenkharla-Kheni and Bartsham-Ramjar villages, in Trashi Yangtse district using
       EFRC method;
    4. The tentative list provided (which is subject to change) include: Bartsham-Bidung
       Phongmey School (10 Km); Thrimshing Dungkhag Office-Tshangpo School (3 Km);
       Mukazor-Tshogonpa School (5 km); Pangthang-Yechhen BHU (2Km); feeder road
       to Gomphu village (8 Km) using EFRC method; of these, the last falls in Zhemgang
       district, and the rest in Trashigang district. All these project roads were from the
       priority list included in the 8th Five Year Plan, based on extensive community-level
       consultation and overall economic importance.


Consistent with the program approach, the roads currently described in (i) through (iii)
above were also subject to change, and different roads may be selected based on the
economic, social and environmental criteria agreed between RGoB and IDA.

       3.2 .2 Office and Transport Equipment

       Survey, office equipment, laboratory equipments and vehicles were procured as
       planned.       Management savings from civil works enabled the Project to purchase
       road safety equipment (mainly crash barriers to enhance the safety of Project roads).
       The reallocation of budget for Bailey bridge parts was made under IDA guidance.
       The office equipment& vehicle provided logistic support for Project Monitoring&
       Supervision.


3.2.3 Project Management Assistance, Training and Technical Assistance:

       These inputs would assist during the introduction and dissemination of
       environmentally friendly design and implementation practices for rural road
       construction and maintenance, for institutional capacity building both in the public
       and private sector and for project implementation support.

       All the requirements stated in the Project Appraisal Document as main loan
       conditions were fulfilled. The project management staffs were trained in the areas of
       financial management, environmental safeguards, procurement, project management
       and administration. In addition to the above training, the DoR and contractor's site
       engineers were trained in bio-engineering techniques, control blasting, quality
       control, contract management, construction management etc.

3.3 Revised Component:

During the implementation of the project, the components were revised as follows:

3.3.1  Construction of 128.71 Km of New Prioritized Feeder Roads including:

    1.  36.57 Km



                                             47

    2. Construction of Lhuentse ­ Dungkhar road in Lhuentse Dzongkhag ­ 39.78 Km
    3. Construction of Gomkora-Tomzhangtsen road ­ 12.43 Km and Bartsham-Ramjar
       road 7.55 Km, in Trashi Yangtse Dzongkhag;
    4. Construction of Bartsham-Bidung road ­ 9.01 Km and Mukazor-Tshogonpa road ­
       7.43 Km, in Trashigang Dzongkhag; Yadi ­ Sershong road ­ 7.22 Km, in Mongar
       Dzongkhag, Praling - Gomphu School. ­ 8.72 Km, in Zhemgang Dzongkhag. The
       EFRC method of construction was adopted in all the roads.

3.4Quality at Entry:

The DoR rates QAE satisfactory on account of the project objectives, consistency of the
design of the project component and arrangement made to handle the complexity of the
project.

3.4.1 Risk and Mitigation measures:
The project was assessed as "medium" risk project. No high risks were encountered during
the project life time. The following were identified as moderate risks in the PAD.

 Risk                       Mitigation                 Comment
 Government to follow       The Environmental          EFRC concept has been introduced
 and mainstream             Code of Practice           amongst all road constructing agencies
 environmentally            (Roads) adopted, close     in Bhutan
 friendly methods of        monitoring and             The EFRC concept is incorporated in
 road construction.         evaluation of contract     the curriculum of the Royal Bhutan
                            clauses and                Institute of Technology, to ensure
                            environment                understanding by the future engineers
                            management plan.           and for the sustainability of EFRC.
 Carrying out project       Attention to improving     Project delay as noted.
 components                 procurement                Delay in credit effectiveness date
 expeditiously              capabilities in DoR        Qualified TA, DoR and contractor
                                                       limited        required         capacity
                                                       strengthening.    This     resulted  in
                                                       staggered packaging of the contracts.
                                                       Geotechnical difficulties faced on one
                                                       identified road. Requiring complete
                                                       selection,    survey,     design    and
                                                       procurement of the new road
                                                       Security issues in South caused delay
                                                       of materials transportation.
The following additional risks have been identified at project end.

 Risk                       Comment
 Motivation of              Gaining commitment and interest has been an obstacle. The
 stakeholders outside       inability to liaise with GoI on the EFRC concepts is perceived by
 DoR, e.g. DANTAK,          all to cause barrier to full acceptance and development of the
 BRO                        technique.



                                               48

 Decentralization          Ongoing RGOB decentralization possesses a risk, detracting
                           attention and commitment from implementation of Project
                           procedures and concepts. Eg. Lack of clarity / changes to role
                           and responsibility of personnel / divisions / Department.
 Maintenance funding       Security / revenue stream for maintenance funding related to
                           Road     Act   implementation     to  ensure    sustainability of
                           infrastructure.
 Regional security and     Security issues in south Bhutan caused increase in cost and
 stability(Dakpai ­ Buli availability issues for materials and impacted personnel
 road, Gomphu road,        movement. Resulting in project capital cost increases and EOT
 Lhuentse ­ Dungkhar       (LDs)
 road)
 Force majeure on          Outburst of lake causing road block for almost two months
 Lhuentse Dungkhar
 road

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome / Achievement of objectives

Summary:

The output of the project is highly satisfactory. The Socio-Economic Impact Assessment
study indicates that the average travel time in project area had reduced from 2 days to 2
hours especially in Dakpai- Buli road and Lhuentse ­ Dungkhar road. And transport cost had
reduced sufficiently to lower commodities cost by 40 % to 60 %

The beneficiary communities now have better access to health and education services due to
reduced travel time and cost.
The road has improved the likely hood of qualified health workers and teachers being
recruited to these areas. The increase in enrolment of boys and girls in primary and junior
high schools is evident.
The development of community routine maintenance was successful on the piloted road.
Extension to other roads will be depended on the population density and community
willingness for each specific location.
The RSMP is the finalized. The environmental safeguards in the construction and
maintenance practices were committed with the enactment of Road Act.

4.2 Output by components

4.2.1    Construction of 128.71 Km of New Prioritized Feeder Roads including:

The civil work component for the construction of 128.71 Km of feeder roads in five
Dzongkhags of Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trashigang, Trashiyangtse and Mongar is completed
successfully as against the targeted plan of 122 Km in four Dzongkhag.

These eight project roads have directly benefited rural population of five Dzongkhags



                                             49

(Socio-economic impact monitoring study done by M/s. Kyinkhor Consultancy)

4.2.2   Office and Transport Equipment.
Completed; details in Annex. 1


4.2.3   Project Management Assistance, Training and Technical Assistance:
Completed; details in Annex. 2

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The traditional methods of road design and construction (using bull dozer and pushing
materials down the mountain slopes) was considered and abandoned. This traditional
method, which has since been evaluated as cheaper by 20-30% capital cost, would damage
farm areas and the environment. However RGoB consider that it would be more expensive
in overall costs in the long run, due to increase environmental damage and anticipated
maintenance.

It was decided therefore to adopt environmentally friendly road construction methods
involving optimization of cut and fill, avoid indiscriminate spillage of excavated material
and haul the excavated materials. Subsequently, it should combine with proactive Bio-
Engineering methods for slope stabilization. Further, when selecting alignments, geological
conditions were carefully assessed to selected alternatives which are more geologically
stable, and less likely to landslides.

The EFRC concept developed was process driven as part of RAP Implementation, supported
by SNV in terms of sourcing required expertise while EFRC support was instrumental for
widely introducing/desimination of EFRC concept.


5.1.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementation agency

The factors outside the control of the government / implementation agency are

    · EFRC concept new to Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB).
    · Hostile geographical location of the project roads- particularly for survey, Design
        and construction.
    · Geotechnical difficulties faced on the project roads due to heavy monsoon
    · Lack of familiarity and clarity with World Bank procurement procedures and
        financial obligations
    · Lack of capacity of public and private sector to carryout the preinvestment studies
        such as social, environmental and geotechnical studies
    · Young Construction Industries to take up Donor Funded Projects for Contracts &
        Consultancies

5.2Factors generally subject to government control(RGoB and DADM)



                                            50

Factors generally subject to government control are:

    · Clearances ( environmental)
    ·            Fund release procedures
    ·            2 formats in reporting requirements- physical and financial report in WB and
       RGoB format
    ·            Difficulty in following WB and RGoB procurement guidelines in
       disbursement & decision making requiring approval of MOWHS& WB.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementation agency control (MoWHS & DoR)

Factors generally subject to implementation agency control are:

         o       Changes of the Project Management Staff ( Study leave , Official transfers)
         o       Failure to allocate support staff in PIU ( Lab technician, work supervisors,
             surveyors)
         o       Insufficient transport facilities at PMU and PIU.
         o       Inadequate knowledge of the interpretation of WB contract, contract
             management and enforcement.
         o       Decision making (technical, contractual& financial) for WB&RGOB.
5.4 Cost and financing

The cost and financing component had no detrimental effect on the implementation of the
project. Project management decisions have resulted in cost savings in comparison to
original project cost forecast.

6 Sustainability

The project's sustainability relates to the sustainability of improved rural access,
environmentally friendly technologies and institutional capacity developed under the project.
EFRC has been mainstreamed in all road Constructing agencies.

6.1 Rationale for sustainable rating

The rationale for sustainability rating is that by focusing on EFRC concept the project will
create district road with reduced future maintenance requirement.

The community participation piloted under the project will provide income and skills to the
project beneficiaries

6.2Transition arrangement to regular operations

The Road Sector Master Plan (RSMP) is finalized. The Department of Roads is working on
the rule and guideline for the implementation of the Road Act

7 Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                51

Bank

7.1 Lending

Bank performance during lending preparation is rated highly satisfactory. IDA team took
rigorous project identification, preparation and appraisal of the project. The policy dialogue
during project preparation was focused on agreeing on a shared framework on the project
concept and on the maintenance modality once the roads are constructed.

The EFRC concept of road construction was new to the RGoB, the limited capacity in
implementing EFRC concept by DoR and contractors during the initial stage of project lead
to non ­ funding of the first 5 km of Dakpai ­ Buli road. However, as the capacity in
implementing EFRC concept developed within DoR and Contractors, the performance
improved and is rated highly satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision

The DoR rates Bank supervision highly satisfactory. The IDA team made a solid effort to
ensure the project was implemented effectively, and achieved its development objectives.
The task team was focused on overcoming problems that hindered implementation progress
and achievement of the objectives. Supervision was well organized and timed to handle a
wide range of activities in the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance

The overall performance of IDA is rated highly satisfactory, considering the above
assessment.

Borrower

7.4 Preparation

The performance of the Borrower during the project preparation stage is rated highly
satisfactory. The project was a high priority for RGoB in poverty reduction, socio-economic
development, reducing travel time of the targeted beneficiaries, and this was demonstrated
by the good ownership the RGoB shown during project preparation. RGoB quickly
organized itself and the project preparatory fund was secured from the Japanese government
and carried out the preparatory study. The policy dialogue with IDA during project
preparation was productive, and resulted in a well ­ thought out project, and a commonly
shared project concept. The technical assistances for the implementation of EFRC concept
was secured under the funding by NEDA through SNV Bhutan.

7.5Government implementation performance

The RGoB's performance during the project implementation is rated highly satisfactory.



                                            52

Despite the fact the RGoB has to follow its own governing financial rules and regulation,
RGoB has followed the entire loan covenant as stipulated in the Development Credit
Agreement, such as World Bank procurement procedures, financial and physical reporting
systems and EFRC concept development through the TA. RGoB has considered the
privatization of road construction a priority and all the civil works contracts are executed
through private contractors. To make the road construction and maintenance sustainable,
pilot community routine maintenance and petty contracting of routine maintenance works
were tested on selected project roads.

7.6Implementing Agency

The performance of the implementation agency, DoR was rated highly satisfactory. The
Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Implementing Unit (PIU) competently
implemented the project with sound and transparent procurement methods, timely
monitoring and reporting systems as per the DCA. The PMU and PIUs were staffed with
competent personnel, which lead to the successful achievement of the project goals. With the
sound management by the PMU and PIUs, substantial savings of the project cost had been
achieved, which lead to the increase in construction of road length from 122 km to 128.71
km. On top of the civil work component, saving from the project was used for the
procurement of road safety equipment for the project roads and national highways worth
nearly Nu. 20 million. The PMU and PIUs had taken active interest in implementing the
project incorporating the comments by the World Bank mission in solving the l difficulties
of geotechnical, Procurement of works, goods & services &Contractual issues faced on the
Project roads. The recommended remedial measures on the project roads were implemented
timely and problems fixed.

All the project activities were completed and payment made to the contractors and suppliers
on or before the project closing date of June 30, 2006, thus achieving the physical and
financial targets as per the DCA.

7.7Overall Borrower performance

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated highly satisfactory, considering the above
assessment.

8.Lessons Learnt

8.1Readiness of the project must be there before the start of the IDA.

The selection of road, pre- feasibility studies such as environmental, social, and geological
and geotechnical etc., various clearances, acquisition of land, and survey and design must be
completed before the start of the IDA. In other words, the project must be ready at least 50
% before the effective start of the IDA. When the RAP started very limited pre-feasibility
studies were completed, which lead to simultaneous preparation and execution of the
project. The consultancies studies took much of the time and PMU did not have the capacity
to comment and review the reports. The project should be ready at least 50 % before the



                                            53

effective start date of IDA & therefore more time needed for planning& pre-Project studies.

8.2Project management staff must be fully trained in World Bank procurement and
financial management systems

RAP was the first project funded by the World Bank in the road sector. Though the
Department of Roads has experiences in the field of road construction, it was a Herculean
task to the PMU to manage and implement the project as per the guidelines imposed by the
World Bank both in procurement, and financial and physical reporting obligations. Training
of PMU staff on the World Bank systems were not readily available on the shelves, and
could obtain the experience and training only when the project was midway. Therefore, for
the successful management and implementation of the project, the staff must be fully trained
in the required field.

8.3 Delegation of authority for project management should be clearly defined and
should be independent from Field Division.

The clear delegation of authority for the project management was not defined and the project
was not set up independent. Besides the World Bank policies and guidelines, the project
management had to harmonize the RGoB policies and guidelines which contradicted at
times. It must be made clear in the DCA as to the adherence of RGOB procedures during
the Project implementation. Involvement of the Field Division offices further diluted the
chain of communication, and reporting and monitoring obligations. PIUs were accountable
directly to the Field Division offices and not directly to the PMU. The project finance
personnel were accountable directly to the Administration and Finance Division of the
Ministry and not to the PMU, which led to complication in the working environment.

Therefore, for the successful implementation of the project, the project setup must be
independent and the PIUs and finance personnel should be directly accountable to the PMU.

8.4 TA objectives and component must be defined in the bidding document

Technical Assistance (TA) objectives and component must be defined clearly and designed
fully for the project purposes and cover till the completion of project. The TA component for
RAP under NEDA ended midway and the support came in from EFRC Support Project,
which had mandates beyond RAP. Though RAP got uninterrupted support under EFRC -
SP, the time allocation of the TA got diverted to other stakeholders such as MoA, FDCL,
RBIT, CAB, CDB, SQCA as per the mandate of the EFRC SP and efforts were diluted and
focus was lost.

Further, it was learnt that in the bidding document, which forms the contract between the
client and contractor, the mandates of the TA were not mentioned clearly. The TA provided
technical advices which had financial implication though for the betterment of the project
execution in term of quality, but it had been difficult for the client and the contractor to take
in the advice easily. Therefore, clear objective and mandates for roles and responsibilities of
the TA must be incorporated in the bidding document.



                                              54

8.5 EFRC concept must be clearly defined and documented, policy and decision
makers informed and appraised.

When RAP started EFRC concept was in infant stage with no clear definition and
documentation. The concept was initiated in RAP with little in house experiences and from
neighboring countries. Neither the TA nor PMU/PIU were fully equipped with the
technology, and everything had to be started from scratch. Though awareness was created in
the country on the concept, it was not easily convincing for the policy and decision makers
to agree on investment. Under RAP, the concept is still in the process of development and
refinement and all the available documentation must be circulated to the relevant
stakeholders for mass awareness of the EFRC concept. RAP was considered as the vehicle
for the development of the EFRC concept and greatest achievement of RAP was the
adoption of the policy by RGoB that all road construction in the country will follow EFRC
method.

8.6 Contractors and client must be trained in executing and implementing the contract.

When the RAP started there were very limited knowledge on the part of the PMU/PIU and
the contractors in implementing the contract. Though awareness and training were imparted
before the start of the project, it was just not sufficient to fully understand and interpret
correctly. These lapses and shortages in understanding and interpreting the contract terms&
conditions by both the parties led to various contractual problems such as variations,
deviations, time extension, non- compliances of technical specifications etc. which could
had been avoided and minimized if taken care as per the contract clauses. Unjustified claims
and poor recording of risks and obligations of the parties led to delay in decision making by
the competent authority resulting in exchange of undue dialogues between the parties.
Therefore, for the successful implementation of the project, the parties in the contract must
be trained and made to understand individual's risks and obligations.

8.7 Incentive must be paid to the project management and project implementing staff

The success of the project depends largely on the recognition and incentives the project staff
received for their hard work. No doubt the project staff had to work under harsh
circumstances with lots of activities to monitor within the limited resources and capacities,
coupled by inexperienced contractors, a need is felt for recognition of their good services.
The principle of management tools such as incentives and motivating mechanism need to be
incorporated in the Project design. The project staff had to work under extremely stretched
time frame with lot of conditions on the quality control, quality assurances, and technical
specifications to be imposed on the inexperienced contractors. They had to walk along the
hostile terrain and thick jungle innumerable times accompanying the visitors from the
Dzongkhag, PMU, Government officials, World Bank mission, technical advisors etc. and it
had been learnt that with repeated assignment Mission no incentives for the hard work is
demotivating. Therefore, in order to maintain the unwavering interest and motivation of the
project staff, incentives and recognition in the form of trainings and project allowance must
be incorporated in the Project design.



                                             55

9. Partner Comments

The Rural Access Project is a tri-partite project between RGoB, World Bank and
Netherlands Development Agency (NEDA). The stakeholders and beneficiaries of the
Project are the five Dzongkhags of Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trashigang, Trashiyangtse and
Monger. The comment received from the NEDA, SNV is attached separately and the
following are the comments received from the project beneficiaries and stakeholders.

9.1     Zhemgang Dzongkhag

Dakpai-Buli & Gomphu Village Road

1. Dakpai-Buli Road
With the successful completion of Dakpai-Buli road, now two new roads are coming up.
Farm road from Buli to Tshaidang is ongoing and from Buli to Nimshong road the survey
has been completed. The public transport service from Gelephu to Buli is in operational for
the local people. Moreover, the walking distance for the far-flung villages have drastically
reduced and has improved the living standard of the local communities.

2. Gomphu feeder road:
With the connection of road to Gomphu, the Gomphu Community Primary School is to be
upgraded to Lower Secondary School during the 10th FYP that will benefit a number of
villages under Trong Geog.

The people of lower Kheng used to grow cash crops only for their consumption, because
there were no means of transporting the crops. But now there is public transport service.
Since the Geogs of lower Kheng are fertile and has potential to grow any kind of cash crops,
the Dzongkhag Administration is encouraging them for income generations as the road has
come near to them and also the main route from Dzongkhag Headquarter to most of the
Geog Center are through Gomphu. Today, the area has become one of the major marketing
centers for lower Zhemgang.

9.2     Lhuentse Dzongkhag
Lhuentse-Dungkhar Road (39.78 Km)

    · Two days journey on difficult terrain, steep slope and slushy areas reduced to 2 hours
       by vehicle.
    · Public have more access to market for their surplus agricultural products. This will
       also encourage farmers to go grow surplus and enhance the income generation.
    · The problem of rural ­ urban migration can be reduced.
    · Improvement of accessibility to health.          Serious patients can be referred to
       Dzongkhag Hospital.
    · Enhancement of development activities as there is lot of time saved from
       transportation/travel.
    · Improvement in communication between the Dzongkhag Headquarter and the public.




                                             56

    · Scope of tourism and pilgrimage is also foreseen in future.
9.3     Trashi Yangtse Dzongkhag
1. Gomkora-Tomeyzhangtsen road(12.45 Km)
The construction of Gomkora-Tongmeyzhangtse road has very great impact on the people of
the Tongshang geog. Prior to the construction of the road, the people had to carry the daily
needs on their back from the Duksum town and had to climb a very steep slope in the very
scorching sun. Like wise, the school and BHU had to carry the books, rations, medicine etc.
from the Duksum town. With the construction of this road, the living standard of the people
have greatly increased with so many development activities coming up in a very short time
such as school, electricity, and water supply. In the earlier days it used to take at least 2 ­ 3
hours to reach to the Tongmeyzhangtse, but now it is just a matter of 20 ­ 30 minutes.
Because of this road the farmers have access to many other facilities such as easy access for
vegetable markets to the town & other places, Hospitals and bank and post office, RNR
centers & others.
2. Bartsham-Ramjar Road (7.55 Km)
The feeder road from Bartsham to Ramjar is beneficial for the upper public of Ramjar
travelling to Tashigang. It is also useful for the transportation of construction materials,
rations, stationery etc. The people have now easy access to gups office, school, BHU & to
the monastery after the construction of road.   It has helped integration of far flung villages.
Though, there is impact on the people, it is relatively less beneficial as compared to
Gomkora-Tongmeyzhangtse road since Bartsham-Ramjar road is connected only to the
upper village of Ramjar Geog.

9.4     Trashigang Dzongkhag
Bartsham-Bidung road & Mukazor-Tshogonpa road

    · Easier delivery of goods like agricultural inputs and other technical services to Geog
    · Encourage more farm produces like cash crops( potato) due to easy access to market
    · Reduce walking distance
    · Quick and faster access to health services
    · Reduction on internal transportation cost(for school and health centers)
    · Likely to encourage farm mechanization in near future
    · Timely monitoring and evaluation of plan activities
    · Reduction of rural-urban migration
    · More social interaction.

9.5     Mongar Dzongkhag
Yadi-Sershong Road

Socio-economic development: The road has boosted the socio-economic development in
the geog. With the road at their geog, a few more shops have come-up. People have bought
some private cars. The local product that was shelved for a long period can now easily be
marketed.

Transport: The road has eased a day long walking journey to Yadi to mere thirty minutes
drive. The geog is also facilitated by the taxi services. The potter age of the government



                                            57

and private goods has been reduced.

Religious and cultural development: One of the most sacred religious sites in the east Aja
-Ney had a very few visitors in the past. With the opening of the road, there are more
visitors on pilgrimage to the sacred Aja-Ney. The three day walking has been reduced to
two days.

Health improvement: There is a BHU-II in the geog. The patient can be easily reached to
Mongar Regional Hospital as the ambulance is accessible.

Exposure: People in the geog are more exposed to the modern amenities. The living
habits, hygiene and over all status of the people are changed as they are proud owner of the
road in their geog.

Eco-cultural Tours: With the completion of the road, the Eco-cultural tours to Aja-Ney,
can be proposed and developed.

10. Additional Information
N/A




                                            58

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


SNV INPUT FOR ICR RAP 1

Version 21 July 2006
Technical Assistance in RAP1 (2000-2006)

Introduction

The Technical Assistance to the Rural Access Project is provided through SNV ­ Bhutan
(Netherlands Development Organisation)

SNV has chosen to provide technical assistance as rural access is one of pillars of
poverty alleviation. Providing access to rural communities is one of the highest priorities
of the Royal Government of Bhutan, which SNV supports. Bhutan has wisely chosen the
"middle path" with regard to economic development, ensuring that preservation of
natural resources and preventing environmental degradation is a priority. However, the
mountainous terrain and the scattered settlement patterns make the construction and
maintenance of roads in Bhutan difficult and costly; hence environmental friendly
techniques and efficient construction management have been promoted.

SNV's Technical Assistance component has focused on capacity building and learning, to
support the Department of Roads and other stakeholders, so that all future road
construction in Bhutan will be environmental friendly, efficient and of high quality.

The Technical Assistance took place in two phases:
1. RAP TA from January 2000 till February 2003
2. EFRC-SP from March 2003 till June 2006


Objectives and approach

RAP TA

The Department of Roads and SNV started with a cooperation agreement (RAP-TA)
stating that SNV would provide a variety of technical assistance which included bringing
in experts for surveying, design, supervision and execution of the project. The main
objective was the efficient implementation of the Rural Access Project in an
environmental friendly manner. The manpower component included one international
team leader who was a road engineer, two national road engineers and one national
environmental specialist, all long-term positions.
There were also a variety of short term national and international experts called upon on
an as-needed basis such as bio-engineers, engineering geologists, road engineers and
machine operator experts. The approach in the first years focused on technical issues
which could be improved and bringing in technical expertise when needed.

EFRC-SP


                                            59

In 2002 DoR and SNV Bhutan, with support from the Sustainable Development
Secretariat (bi-lateral funding from The Netherlands), agreed to continue its support to
further develop and introduce the EFRC concept and to further strengthen the capacity of
the Department of Roads (DoR) and other stakeholders (including training institutes, the
private construction industry and the districts). To this end the EFRC Support Project
started in March 2003.

The support from SNV Bhutan in the EFRC Support Project was focused on
strengthening the organisational and institutional capabilities of the Department of Roads
and other stakeholders involved in road construction and ultimately to create sufficient
in-house capacity within the client organisations to achieve sustainability.

The (technical) advisory services included expertise for planning, surveying, design,
supervision, execution, quality assurance and maintenance of road construction projects
and strategy development for different stakeholders including CAB, CDB and SQCA.
The Technical Assistance team comprised of two international road engineering experts,
five national road engineers, one environmental specialist, one construction development
specialist and one community maintenance specialist.

A variety of more than 20 short term national and international experts were made
available during the project in the areas like: quality assurance, bio-engineering,
engineering geology, RBIT curriculum development, equipment management, transport
economy, community organisation development and construction sector development.
(see annex 1 ­ list of training provided)


Implementation

Technical

Traditional road construction techniques caused major damage to the mountainous
environment. The aim of the EFRC method is to prevent and mitigate environmental
damage as much as possible. The selection of the road alignment tries to avoid
geologically, environmentally and socially sensitive areas, and are selected from the
MoWHS Road Master Plan (PPD).
Lower categories of roads (including farm roads and power tiller tracks) are increasingly
based on District Rural Access Plans, to optimise community driven access solutions.
Detailed survey data is collected, including; but not limited to; forest cover, soil
classification, slope steepness, water sources, cultural heritage, walking distances.

The final design and contract drawings include locations of spoil deposits, barriers, walls,
drainage points and other structures such as crib walls, gabion walls and bio-engineering.
Cuts into mountain slopes are minimised and especially where the slopes are fragile and
prone to landslides, part of the road width is made in fill, by constructing retaining walls.

The number of trees felled is minimised where possible and bulldozers have been


                                             60

replaced by excavators during first cut. Excavated materials are no longer thrown down
the slope, avoiding severe damage to the vegetation cover and preventing fragile slopes
being exposed to monsoon rains. Instead, excavated material is segregated for re-use and
the surplus is transported by tippers to selected spoil disposal sites.

Trenches and barriers constructed from logs or boulders immediately below the road are
used to catch falling materials and in some cases to allow for the controlled dumping of
excavated materials. Controlled blasting has been adopted in order to minimise damage
to the surrounding hill environment and to prevent the slopes from being destabilised.
Environmental management plans and quality assurance plans are used to optimise the
construction.


Social and Economic
Community based maintenance has been introduced to create ownership and
opportunities for direct income amongst the rural populations. As well as providing
wages, there is also a skills enhancement regarding both road maintenance and financial
management activities.

Historically the high risk of landslides due to the construction method, coupled with the
lack of consideration given to water management, led ultimately to high repair and
maintenance costs in the lifecycle of the road. Using EFRC methods the initial
investment during initial construction is higher than those constructed by means of
traditional methods. However, the higher level of investment is reflected by higher road
standards and quality. This means that maintenance and monsoon restoration costs are
substantially lower over the total lifetime of the road.

The improved quality of the road also leads to lower vehicle operation costs, which has a
significant positive impact on the economic benefits derived from the roads.

Other economic benefits include fewer road blockages, less stocking of essential supplies
by communities, less damage to flora and fauna and less damage to property and cultural
heritage sites. In summary, based on whole life costs and benefits, it is estimated that
EFRC roads become economically cheaper than the 'traditionally' constructed roads after
approximately nine years.

SNV inputs

The Rural Access Project Technical Assistance Component (RAP TA) has supported
DoR with the development and introduction of the EFRC concept over the period
January 2000 until December 2002. The RAP TA was funded by the Royal Netherlands
Embassy in Delhi and was managed by SNV Netherlands Development Organisation.

SNV has continued to support EFRC under the EFRC Support Project (EFRC SP). The
EFRC-SP was cooperation between RGoB, SDS and SNV. The purpose of EFRC-SP
was to assist DoR in implementation of Environmental Friendly Road Construction in



                                             61

Bhutan. EFRC will only be sustainable if, in addition to being adopted by the road
agencies, issues related to policy, community maintenance, technical training and
education and private construction industry development are also addressed.

The project aimed to achieve this by simultaneously implementing the following 8
components:

    1. Rural Access Project implementation support;
    2. EFRC concept further development within the RAP;
    3. EFRC adoption by DoR;
    4. Sustainable EFRC policy development;
    5. Introduction EFRC concept to other road agencies;
    6. Capacity building Dzongkhags and communities;
    7. Capacity building for private construction sector;
    8. EFRC introduction to technical training/education institutes.

The eight components under the EFRC SP have been implemented by different agencies
and were developed to ensure sustainability and to ensure a general qualitative
improvement of the construction industry in Bhutan. The main Agencies who agreed to
actively participate in the EFRC Support Project were: Department of Roads, Standards
and Quality Control Authority, Policy and Planning Department Ministry of
Communications (later MoWHS), National Environmental Commission Secretariat, RNR
Engineering Cell, Forestry Development Cooperation, National Technical Training
Authority (later BVQA), Royal Bhutan Institute of Technology, Construction Association
of Bhutan, Construction Development Board and the Dzongkhags of Zhemgang,
Lhuentse, Trashigang and Trashi Yangtse.
Achievements

The main achievement of the Technical Assistance is the holistic and balanced
strengthening of the entire road construction sector and the institutionalisation of EFRC
methods.

The capacity of all stakeholders in the road sector (including Department of Roads,
training institutes, contractors, Contractors Association of Bhutan and Standard and
Quality Assurance Authority) has been strengthened through guidance, strategy
development, advice, and on the job and class room training.

Partnerships between these different stakeholders were built up through the establishment
of a committee as well as combined workshops and study tours.

Improvements in road construction have been made at all stages, including:

    A. At planning stage District Rural Access Planning was introduced
    B. At survey and design stage social, environmental and geotechnical assessments
       were improved and further incorporated and environmental friendly technical
       standards were endorsed;



                                              62

    C. At contracting phase standard bidding documents have been introduced and
        evaluation methods improved;
    D. During the construction phase quality assurance and environmental management
        plans have become mandatory and environmental friendly techniques are being
        applied;
    E. In the maintenance stage community maintenance contracts have introduced.


The technical assistance team produced over 50 documents (including manuals,
guidelines, handbooks, teaching materials and strategies) which are widely used by the
different partners in the road sector.

More than 1,000 employees of Government and contractors and community members
received in country training on the job and through workshops. About 100 persons
participated in study tours and trainings abroad.

Environmentally Friendly Road Construction has been mainstreamed through the
incorporation in the Ninth Five Year Plan, Road Act and in the Technical Specifications
and Bidding Document.


Cooperation DoR-SNV-World Bank


The cooperation between Department of Roads, SNV and the World Bank has been very
fruitful.

There has been an intense cooperation between SNV and DoR. The DoR clearly
indicated their needs in capacity strengthening modalities throughout the programme.
DoR amended the mandate of the National Road Engineers (TA) in the field in order to
make them more directly accountable.

Due to lack of man power the Department could sometimes not provide sufficient
counterparts which resulted in gap filling by SNV's TA. The Department sometimes felt
that the EFRC-SP requirement to work with all the relevant stakeholders and on many
different aspects in the road construction diverted the TA focus. However the partnership
building and flexibility in support was appreciated.

The cooperation of SNV with the World Bank in the implementation of the Rural Access
Project has provided a unique opportunity to promote EFRC. It was not always easy as
the WB team leaders and team members in the various missions differed, as this
sometimes caused a diversion of earlier given advice. However different inputs also led
to the identification of many improvement possibilities in the road sector which were
often taken up by the Department and SNV. The missions and Aide Memoirs often gave
a push to new and existing initiatives to make road construction in Bhutan more effective
and efficient.




                                             63

Lessons learned

  1. The technical assistance has always focused on priorities of the Government, for
       example- the middle path philosophy and quality assurance which ensured
       commitment from the side of the government
  2. The holistic approach of the Technical Assistance focusing involving all
       stakeholders in the road sector, all stages of the project cycle and on
       institutionalizing environmental friendly road construction ensured a balanced
       improvement.
  3. The wide range of activities and shortage of counterparts made the internalisation
       and enforcement of some procedures and systems difficult.
  4. EFRC promotion materials have greatly increased the awareness and
       understanding of EFRC and have enhanced ownership of EFRC
  5. The role of the TA in creating an enabling environment for DoR and EFRC was
       essential to facilitate the change process of DoR.
  6. The introduction of a technical innovation like EFRC facilitates the capacity
       strengthening process, since it makes the steps more concrete and acceptable.
   7. The combination of long-term and short-term TA was highly effective. Short-
       term TA missions were well planned and contributed also to the capacity
       strengthening process.
   8. The advisory rather than implementation role of the TA has created ownership for
       EFRC within DoR and has enabled DoR to strengthen its capacity.
   9. Permanent placement of long term TA on the road project site can lead to role
       confusion and a too high dependence on the availability of the TA.
   10. RAP TA proved that EFRC is economically and technically feasible and EFRC-
       SP ensured further development and dissemination.

                                          Annex 1

Short term training in country

  · 1 Community Maintenance Training ­ Kikhar
  · 3 Control Blasting training ­ Bidung(2), Mukazor(1)
  · 2 Material Testing & Quality Control Training -Bidung & Zhemgang
  · 2 Survey & Design workshops­ Thimphu
  · 2 Bio-Engineering Training ­ Trashigang, Zhemgang
  · 1 EFRC Introduction ­ Thimphu

  · 2 Quality Assurance Strategy ­ Bumthang, Thimphu
  · 1 Study Tour to RAP site for Stakeholders, EFRC Introduction & EFRC in
       Project Cycle ­ All RAP sites
  · 1 Stakeholders Workshop ­ Thimphu
  · 1 Modern Office Administration & Management ­ CMI P/ling
  · 1 Construction Management Training - Thimphu
  · 2 Community Road Maintenance Training - Trashiyangtse, Lhuentse
  · 1 Control Blasting Training ­ Yadi ­ Shershong
  · 1 Study Tours to Stakeholders to RAP Sites



                                             64

  · 2 Bio ­ Engineering Training ­ RAP Sites
  · 3 Quality Assurance Plan Training ­ Eastern, Central & Western Region
  · 1 Briefing on EFRC Experiences & Methods ­ DoR Quarterly Meeting
  · 3 EFRC Awareness Workshop ­ Eastern, Central & Western Region
  · 1 Survey & Design Training - Thimphu
         o Training of Trainers
         o 2 Monitoring & Reporting Training - Thimphu
         o 1 Contract Management - DoR, RNR & RAP Engineers
         o 1 Contract Management & Quality Assurance ­ Thimphu
         o 1 Workshop on Private Sector Development
         o 1 Workshop on Design & TS for farm roads
         o 1 Environmental Monitoring System
         o 3 Site Supervision & Procedures Workshop (Eastern, Central & Western
            region)

    Short term training ex country

  · Road & Bridge Maintenance Management ­ AIT Thailand (12 DoR Engineers)
  · Quality Management in Construction Works ­ AIT, Thailand (11 DoR Engineers)
  · Sub-Soil Investigation & Pavement Design ­ AIT Thailand (6 DoR Engineers)
  · Bio-Engineering Study Tour ­ AIT Thailand ( 13 Stakeholders)
  · Mtc. Mgt. of Const. Machinery, Procurement, Inventory Management ­ Sri
      Lanka (two batches (5 + 7 )DoR Mechanical Engineers)
  · Training on Non-Destructive & Bldg. Instrument Test ­ Switzerland (2 SQCA
      Engineers)
  · Training on testing of bitumen/emulsion & pavement works ­ CRRI New Delhi
      (5 SQCA & DoR Engineers)
  · Workshop/Seminar ­ AIT Thailand (1 DoR Senior Engineer)
  · Environmental Risk Management: Participants ­ 3 DoR Staff for 3 weeks
  · Contract Management: Participants ­ 8 DoR Staff & 2 RNR Engineering for 3
      weeks
  · Study Tour to Thailand/India/Nepal: Participants ­ 13 from DoR and
      Stakeholders
  · Study Tour to Region: Participants ­ 6 DoR Engineers, 10 Stakeholders

Long term training ex country:

  · Master in Transport Engineering ­ AIT Thailand (1 DoR Engineer)
  · Master in Environmental Engineering ­ Queensland, Australia (1 DoR
      Engineer)
  · Master in Structural Engineer ­ Sydney, Australia (1 DoR Engineer)
  · Master in Engineering Geology ­ Australia (1 DoR Engineer)




                                      65

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1.Aide Memoires, preparation missions for Bhutan RAP, by World Bank 1998-1999.
2.Aide Memoires, supervision missions for Bhutan RAP, by World Bank 2000-2006.
3.Bhutan Transport Sector Note, by World Bank, August 16, 2004
4.Borrower's Project Implementation Completion Report, by DOR, August 2006
5.SNV Input for ICR RAP-I, July 2006.
6.Development Credit Agreement (Bhutan Rural Access Project) between Kingdom of Bhutan
and International Development Assoc iation, 1999
7.Country Assistance Strategy for Bhutan, by World Bank, November 29, 1999
8.Country Assistance Strategy for Bhutan, by World Bank, November 18, 2005
9.Royal Government of Bhutan. "Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. A Cover Note to the Ninth
Plan Main Document." Department of Planning, Ministry of Finance. 2004
10.ICR Mission Note, September 10-22, 2006
11.Project Status/Implementation Status Reports, 2000-2005
12.Project Appraisal Document for a Rural Access Project, November 19, 1999
13.Road Sector Development and Environmental Friendly Roads in Bhutan, by DOR and SNV,
June 2004
14.Quality at Entry Assessment Report (QEA 3), by World Bank, 2000
15.Mid-term Review Report, Bhutan Rural Access Project, June 2003
16.Kyingkhor Consultancy Services. "Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring. Baseline Survey
Report." Prepared for Royal Governme nt of Bhutan, Ministry of Works and Human Settlement,
Department of Roads. January 1999
17.Kyingkhor Consultancy Services. "Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring. First Annual Report
2003." Prepared for Royal Govern ment of Bhutan, Ministry of Works and Human Settlement,
Department of Roads. January 2004
18.Kyingkhor Consultancy Services. "Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring. Final Monitoring
Report 2006. Bhutan Rural Access Pr oject." Prepared for Royal Government of Bhutan,
Ministry of Works and Human Settlement, Department of Roads. August 13, 2006.
19.Scott Wilson. "Geotechnical Study for the Rural Access Programme." Volume 1: Report and
Volume 2: Appendices. Prepared for Royal Government of Bhutan, SNV and World Bank.
December 2004 and March 2005




                                             66

MAP




       67

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 30466R

                                                                                                                                                90°00'                                  90°30'                                      91°00'                                                  91°30'                                     92°00'
                                                                                   ELEVATION IN METERS:

         CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BHUTAN
                                                                                                  5000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              28°30'
                                  H   I M     A L A       Y   A                                            28°30'                                                                                                                                                 RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
                                                                                                  3000
                          H
                      G                                                                           1000
                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT ROADS AS CONSTRUCTED                      PROJECT ROADS PLANNED TO BE                               PAVED ROADS
                 H                                                                                                                                                                                                   AT COMPLETION                                     CONSTRUCTED AT APPRAISAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UNPAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1. Lhuentse-Dungkhar                         40 km    1. Lhuntse-Dungkhar                         37 km
                                                     H    I M     A L A Y A
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2. Dakpai-Buli                               37 km    2. Dakpai-Buli                              37 km             NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS

                            N  E   R                                                                                                                                                                         3. Bartsam-Ramjar                             8 km    3. Bartsam-Ramjar                            8 km             RIVERS
                     I  N                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Gomkora-Tomzhangtsen                      12 km    4. Tsengkharla-Kheni                         7 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AIRPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                             5. Bartsam-Bidung                             9 km    5. Gomkora-Tomzhangtsen                      5 km

                           H I M A L A Y A                         F O O T H I L L S                                                                                                                         6. Mukozor-Tshogonpa                          7 km    6. Bartsam-Bidung-Phongme School            10 km             NATIONAL CAPITAL

 INDIA                                                                                                                                                                                                       7. Praling-Gomphu                             9 km    7. Mukozor-Tshogonpa School                  3 km             DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             8. Yadi-Shershong                             7 km    8. Thimsing Dungkhag Office-Tshangpo School  5 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OTHER TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL  129 km        9. Feeder road to Yechhen                    2 km

                                                89°00'                                             89°30'                                                                                                                                                         10. Feeder road to Gomphu Village             8 km             DZONGKHAG BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL 122 km             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                                                                                              GASAGASA
                                                                                                                  JIGME
                                                                                                                  JIGME     DORJI
                                                                                                                            DORJI
28°00'                                                                                                       NATIONAL
                                                                                                             NATIONAL           PARK
                                                                                                                                 ARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28°00'
                                                                                                                                                          Chu

                                                                                                                   Gasa                                Pho                                      Chamka
                                                    BHUTAN                                                                                                                                            Chu                                                                                                        0      10     20       30          40      50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KULONGCHHU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KULONGCHHU

                                                                                                                          u                                                                                                                                                        WILDLIFEWILDLIFE                            KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                          Ch                                                                                                                  LHUENTSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LHUENTSE                           SANCTUASANCTUARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SANCTUARY
                                                                                                                        Mo                                                                            BUMTHANGBUMTHANG
                                                                                                                             Tashithang                                                                                                                                              TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TASHI
                                                                                                                                PUNAKHA
                                                                                                                                PUNAKHA                                                                                                       Lhuentse                           YANGTSEYA
                                                                                                         THIMPHUTHIMPHU                                                                                               Tang
                                                                                                                                       Shengana              WANGDUE
                                                                                                                                                                 NGDUE                                                                              1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Trashi
                                                                                    Paro                  Tango                      Punakha                PHODRANG
                                                                                                                                                            PHODRANG                             Kurjey
                                                                                                          Chari                                                                                                                         Tangmachhu                                                 'Yangtse
                                                                                        ChuPARO
                                                                                            ARO                                                        Samtengang                                                                                                                            Kulong
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jakar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Chu                                          Changkhala
27°30'                                                                        Drukgye              THIMPHU                                                                                                                                                     u                                   Chu                                                        27°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bumthang     THRUMSHINGLATHRUMSHINGLA
                                                                        Haa                                                             Wangdue                                            Trongsa                                                           Kur                 Yangnyer                  4   3 - 3
                                                                Damthang      Chu
                                                                                                 Paro                                                                                                                              NAT'L.T'L. PARPARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NAT'L. PARK                                            4 - 5                       Bartsam

                                                          TORSATORSA                                                                                           Phubjikha                                                                                                                                                 5 - 6
                                                          STRICTSTRICT          Haa                                                                                                 TRONGSA
                                                                                                                                                                                    TRONGSA                                                                                     Drametse                                 Phongme   SAKTENGSAKTENG
                                                        NATURENATURE                                                                     Sankosh                                                                                                                        8
                                                        RESERVERESERVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WILDLIFEWILDLIFE
                                                                                                                                                                       BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                       BLACK      MTNS.
                                                                                                                                                                                  MTNS.                                                                                                                Trashigang
                                                                       HAAHAA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANCTUASANCTUARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SANCTUARY
                                                                                                                                                                       NAT'L.T'L.
                                                                                                                                                                       NAT'L.     PARPARK
                                                                                                                                                                                  PARK                                                                                                    Manas
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Zhemgang                                                Mongar                                       TRASHIGANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRASHIGANG

                             Tendru                          Torsa                                                     DAGANA
                                                                                                                       DAGANA                                                                               2 - 2             ZHEMGANG              MONGARMONGAR                           6 - 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Thrimshing
                                                                                                          Chhukha               Daga
                                               SAMCHISAMCHI                                                Wang                                                                                                        Gomphu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pemagatshel                9            8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAMDRUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAMDRUP
                                       Sipsu                 Dorokha
                                                                                            DungnaCHHUKHA
                                                                                                  CHHUKHA      Chu                                           Damphu
27°00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tongsa7 - 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10                                 PEMA-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PEMA-                                            JONGKHARJONGKHAR                         27°00'

                                                                                                                                                                                  SARPANGSARP NG                                                                   GATSHELGATSHEL                                          Samrang                 Daifam
                                                                                                           Mirchim                                                                      Gelephu         ROYAL MANAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROYAL MANAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROYAL                 Chu   Panbang                                                                         Dalim
                                                                    Samtse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Manas
                                                                       Pagli     Phuentsholing                                          TSIRANG                          Sarpang                         NAT'L.T'L. PARPARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                         NAT'L. PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nganglam
                                                                                                    Singhi                                                                                     Lalai                                                                                                                 Bhangtar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Samdrup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jongkha                             KHALINGKHALING
   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WILDLIFE SANCTUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SANCTUARY
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                            Raidak                            Phibseo
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                            Kalikhola
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                              PHIPSOO
                                                                                                                                                              PHIPSOO
                                                                                                                                                       WILDLIFE SANCTUAR
                                                                                                                                                       WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
                                                89°00'                                             89°30'                                       90°00'                                  90°30'                                      91°00'                                                  91°30'                                          92°00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DECEMBER 2006

