RP-26
VOL. 1
Bliutan Rural Access Project
Policy Framework
for
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
of
Project Affected Persons



a



CONTENTS
1.  Introduction  And Objectives
1.1   Background and Project Content
1.2   Legal and Policy Framework regarding ResetUement
1.3   About this Document
2.    Impacts and Entitlements
2.1   Types of impact to be addressed
2.2   Summary Entitlement Matrix
2.3   Support principles for different categories of impact
2.3.1  Loss of economic assets
2.3.2  Loss of house and shelter
2.3.3  Loss of livelihood or Income opportunities
2.3.4  Group-based development opportunities
2.4   Targeted support to vulnerable groups
2.5 Options & Choices
3.    Resettlement planning and Implementation
3.1   Social assessment, consultationlparticipation. census and survey
3.1.1  Social assessment
3.1.2  Consultation and participation process
3.1.3  Documentation of voluntary nature of contributions
3.1.4  Census and baseline socio-economic surveys
3.1.5  Cut-off date
3.2   Co-ordination between civil works and resetUement
3.2.1  Screening and planning
3.2.2  Implementation
3.3  Institutional arrangements
3.3.1  Overall Co-ordination
3.3.2  Transparency and accountability
3.4   Costs and Budgets
3.5  Grievance Redress
3.6  Monitoring and Evaluation






SOCIAL IMPACTS AND RESETTLEMENT:
POLICY FRAMEWORK AND PRINCIPLES
1. INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES
1.1 BACKGROUND AND PROJECT CONTENT
The Royal Govemment of Bhutan (RGOB), through Public Works Division (PWD), has
proposed to implement a Rural Access Project with the assistance of the Intemational
-Development Association (IDA). The objective of the project is to improve rural access In
the proposed project districts and provide'a framework and guidelines rehabilitation and
resettlement of project affected households/persons.
The RGOB has tdentified feeder roads in four Districts (Dzonkhag), I.e. Zhemgang (a 37
km Dakpai-BuIl Feeder Road and a 8 Km Jeeder road to Gomphu ), Lhuntse ( 37 km
feeder road). Tashl Yangtse (20 Km feeder roads), and Tashigang ( 20 Km feeder
roads) to be constructed under the project. Of the identified roads, the Dakpai-Buli
feeder road in Zhemgang 1Dzonkhag has the most advanced preparedness with the road
alignment having been finalized and the construction based on environment friendly
designs commenced as part of Zhemgang's Integrated Sustainable Development
Program (ISDP) . The first stretch of 10 Km of Lhuntse-Dungkar road Is expected to be
taken up during 1999-2000.
1.2  LEGAL    AND POLICY FRAMEWORK REGARDING RESETTLEMENT
The primary legal instrument for land acquisition and resettlement in Bhutan is the Land
Act of 1979. The Act provides the compensation mechanism for land and other property
falling under eminent domain whenever required for a public purpose. The rates of
compensation are reviewed by the RGOB periodically, the latest of which is described in
the Land Compensation Rate 1996. The Bank's policy is described in Operational
Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. This policy document states that involuntary
resettlement Is an Integral part of project design, and should be dealt with from the
earliest stages of project preparation.



Both Bhutanese and World Bank guidelines related to resettlement aim at achieving the
following overall goals:
a  Involuntary resettlement shall be avoided to the extent possible or
minimized where feasible, exploring all viable alternative project
designs.
*  Where displacement Is unavoidable, people losing assets, livelihood or
other resources shall be assisted in improving or at a minimum
regaining their former status of living at no cost to themselves.
1.3 ABOuT THIs DOCUMENT
The extent of land acquisition for the project from rural households Is expected to be
minimal. Consequently, the adverse impacts on the affected households Is expected to
be marginal and very few households would need relocation. The project will pursue
voluntary contribution of land and other assets by the community to the extent possible
in exchange for the benefit accrued by the improved access by the road constructon
and maintenance.
This policy document describes the principles and approaches to be followed In
minimizing and mitigating negative social and economic impacts caused by the project.
This policy is applicable to the roads taken up for construction before project
effectiveness date, to qualify for retroactive financing from the IDA. It provides the basis
for a detailed and time-bound abbreviated resettlement action plan (ARAP), which will be
prepared for the project. The ARAP will contain the details of census and baseline
socio-economic surveys of the affected population undertaken in preparation of the
project. it will also contain the institutional and organizational mechanisms required to
undertake the resettlement program.
2. IMPACTS AND ENTITLEMENTS
2.1 TYPES OF IMPACT TO BE ADDRESSED
The resettlement policy for this project addresses development-induced Impacts caused
by the project, and is not limited to physical relocation. The project will address three
broad.categories of social and economic impacts which require mitigation. They are:
* loss of assets, including land and house
* los6 of livelihood or Income opportunities
* collective Impacts on groups, such as loss of common property resources
The first two categories represent direct project impacts on an identified population,
The people likely to be affected by the project will be surveyed and registered, and
project monitoring and evaluation will compare longer term impact against baseline
socio-economic data.
The third category represents an group Impact, where group members need not be
individually registered. Gains and lcsses of a group-oriented nature are not quantifiable
in terms of impact on the individual. Mitigation and support mechanisms will be
collectively oriented, and the monitoring will focus on impact on such groups.



2.2 SUMMARY ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
An entitlement matrix will be included in the Resettlement Action Plan, as shown in the
example below.
CATEGORY                                         ENTITLEMENT UNIT
1. Consultallon. counseling regading stiernatives,  Famslies/households
and assIstance In IdentifyIg new ates and
opportunities
2. CompensatIon for land at replacement cost, free of  Famlies/househokls
fees or other charges
3. Advance notice to harveus nonperennial crops. or  Fsmllieafhouseholds
compensatlon for lost atendiln crop    -__
4. Compensation for perennial cop  and bees.  Fmmliesthouseholds
calculated as annual net product value multiplied by
number of years required for new. crop to start
producing                -
5. Replacemert or compensation for structurez and  Famlieswhouseholds
other non-land assets                           __
6. Rights to  salvage  malerials  from  existng  Families/households
structures, trees, and other assets
7. Shifting assistance                           Familles/households
B. Rehabilitation and assistance for lost or diminished  Adut inJividuals
livelihood
9. Additional support mechanrsms for vutnerable  Adult individuals
_groups In reestablishing livelIhood
10. Employment opportunitIes in connection with  Adult Individuals
protet_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
11. Any other Impacts not yet Identified. whether loss  Adult individuals
of assets or Oivelihood
12. Group oriented suppori vAIll be given lo mitigate  Vaous%groups
negative Impacts on the community. and to enhance
development opportunitles. Particulr support wit be
targeted at more vulnetable groups, for example by
addressing trarfnc safety needs of pedestrians.          __
These categories and support mechanisms are desCribed in more detail in the following
sections.



2.3 Suprport Princinles for Different Cstegorirs oftImpacts
2.3.1 Loss of economic assets
The project may cause people to lose productive land or house plots, structures, wells,
trees, or other assets. The project will therefore compensate and replace lost assets at
their replacement cost, as defined by the most recent Land Compensation Rate
approved by the National Assembly'. The entitlement unit for such assistance is the
household or family.
Experience shows that cash compensation carries a high risk and is normally
inadequate In helping poor and vulnerable groups reestablish their lost assets,
particularly in the case of productive land. The Project will therefore pursue land-for-land
compensation as much as possible as stipulated in the Land Act of 1979 (KA-6[9B]) and,
where necessary or opted by those affected, provide other options in kind or cash as
well as other support mechanisms to those deemed as vulnerable or at risk.
Replacement land of equal or better-productive value will be offered as an option
to those losing substantial amounts of land (i.e. 25% of their holdings or more), or
where loss of land threatens thie economic viability of the household.
If the compensation and the replacement cost is not acceptable to the project affected
persons, they would have recourse to'grievance redress mechanism defined under
section 3.5 of this policy framework document.
2.3.2 Loss of house and shelter
People losing their home represent a particular challenge in the resefflement program.
Compensation for loss of structuires would be carried out on replacement cost basis
based on the Bhutan Govemment Schedule of Rates (BSR). Every effort wili be made
by the project to ensure that new housing is available before people are required to
reiocate. Affected households would be allowed to retain the salvaged materials and due
assistance would be provided for shifting of salvaged materials to the new site either in
kind (provision of transport) or in cash based on estimated shifting costs.
No large scale resettlement is envisaged under the project warranting development of
resettlement sites.
2.3.3 Loss of livelihood or Income ogiortunltles
In-cases where the displacement caused by the project leads to loss of livelihood or
Income opportunities, either temporarily or permanently, assistance will be given to the
effected population to reestablish their livelihood and Income, and to compensate for
temporary losses. The unit of entitlement eligible for support in such cases will be the
adult individual, both men and wo'men. All adult members of households affected in this
way would be eligible for support.
In the case of road projects, a common loss is the displacement of a business structure
such as a small roadside shop. The project will assist such businesses in relocating,
and in continuing their preferred occupation without loss of customer base. As In the
case of houselshelter, the project would provide assistance in shifting in kind or pay
estimated expenses in cash.
Dt Vo toie liuiited niatutre of rural land tmarket in Bliutan. comnpensalion rates canulot be determined
al lhe opcn market value.



If the project Impact leads to people being unable to continue with their previous
occupation, the project will provide support and arsistance through alternative
employment strategies. Where possible, project affected people will be given
employment in opportunities created by the project, such as work with construction or
maintenance. Longer-term eaming opportunities will be provided through strategies
such as vocational training, employment counseling, inclusion in income generating
schemes, and access to credit.
Particularly in the case of landless families who suffer partial or total loss of livelihood as
a result of the project, RGOB would, as part of its normal policy, allot land free of cost to
such affected families. Those who become landless as a result of the land acquisition
due to the project would be allotted land as per provisions of the Land Act 1979, KA-
6(9A).
2.3.4 Group-based development o0rlortunltles
In addition to the direct losses cf assets or livelihood, the project may have indirect
Impacts on the population living in the vicinity of the road corridor. While many of these
Impacts are positive, some are negative and should be mitigated. These may Include
impacts on traffic safety, access to water and sanitation, and access to common
property resources. Community-owned assets such as schools, temples and imigation
canals may also be affected by the project. Impacts related to a population's cultural
heritage should be addressed with particular care, in accordance with World Bank and
the Royal Government of Bhutan guidelines related to cultural heritage.
Through designs, provision of infrastructure, and other support mechanisms, the project
will replace lost assets and minimize any negative impact on groups, particularly groups
which are considered vulnerable. Even where there is no discernible negative impact,
the project will seek to benefit the local population.
2.3.5 DELAYS IN PAYMENT OF COMPENSATnON
In case of delay in payment of compensation for any of the assets acquired in the
project, the project would pay simpla Interest at prevailing rates for the period of delay.
2.4 TARGETED SUPPORT TO VULNERABLE GROUPS
Through census surveys and other studies, the project will determine who among the
affected population may be considered as vulnerable or at risk, or who are likely to be
excluded from the normal benefits of growth and development. Vulnerable groups may
include but not be limited to:
* poor or landless people
* women-headed households
.  children
Different impacts will affect these groups differently, depending on the reason for their
vulnerability under the project. The project would pay special attention to these
vulnerable- groups who will receive targeted support and be provided with more options
and support mechanisms as appropriate.



2.5 OPTIONS AND CHOICES
Through public consultations, the project will identify and provide the options and
choices among different entitlements to the affected population. Affected population will
be counseled so they are able to make informed choices among the options provided.
3. RESETTLEMENT PLANtiNG AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.1 SOCIAL ASSESSMENT. CONSULTATIONIPARTICIPATION, CENSUS AND SURVEY
3.1.1 Social Assessment
A social assessment will be undertaken for the project, in order to support participation
and make explicit the social factors affecting the development impacts and results. This
social assessment will identify stakeholders and key social issues, and formulate a
participation and consultation strategy. It will speciFically address the issue of how poor
and vulnerable groups may benefit from the project.
3.1.2 Consultation and Particliatlon Process
Experience indicates that involuntary resettlement generally gives rise to severe
problems for the affected population. These problems may be reduced if, as part of a
resettlement program, people are properly informed and consulted about the project,
their situation and preferences, and allowed to make meaningful choices. This serves to
reduce the insecurity and opposition to the project which otherwise are likely to occur.
The project will therefore ensure that the affected population and other stakeholders are
informed, consulted In a meaningful way, and allowed to participate actively In the
development process. This will be done throughout the project, both during preparation,
implementation, and monitoring of project results and impacts.
The consultation will be conducted in a way which is appropriate for cultural, gender-
based, and other differences among the stakeholders. Where different groups or
individuals have different views or opinions, particular emphasis will be put on the views
and needs of the more vulnerable groups.
The project will provide detailed documentation regarding the stakeholder consultation
process. It will take account of the fact that Information must be given at different
stages, repeated, and provided through different media. The consultation process
planned for the project will use different types of consultation such as in-depth
interviews, focus group discussions, seminars and meetings, and key informant
interviews at different level of stakeholcler involvement.
3.1.3 Documentation of 'voluntary' nature of contributions
As mentioned earlier, the project will seek voluntary contribution of land and assets as
much as possible.  However, voluntary nature must be supervised through the
community consultation process and documented, according to the following criteria:
a) the affected people have the option of saying no to contributing land or
other assets, or losing access to resources or livelihood; and



b) land required has been Identified and agreed upon through community
consultations, and Is free of squatters, encroachers, claims, or other
encumbrances; and
c) it can be verified that there is no undue coercion involved in making people
contribute land or other assets
3.1.4 Census and baseline soclo-economic surveys
Where involuntary nature of negative impact is found unavoidable, a full census will be
undertaken to register and document the status of the potentially affected population
within the project Impact area. This will provide a demographic overview of the
population, and will cover people's assets and main sources of livelihood. It is to cover
100% of the potentially affected population within ttie likely Impact area and a
reasonable distance beyond2. In this process, legal boundaries including the Right of
VWay are to be verified and certified.
Following final designs, only those within the actual impact area will be considered
eligible for support under the project. This is likely to be a lower number than those
initially covered In the census.
3.1.5 Cut-off date
The cut-off date for respective sub-projects under the project would be the date of socio-
economic baseline survey. If there is a substantial time gap of more than one year
between the date of survey and, project implementation, the baseline data would be
updated and the updated data would be used for resettlement & rehabilitation.
3.2 COORDINATION BETWEEN CIVIL WORKS ANO RESETTLEMENT
3.2.1 Screening and Planning
Efforts shall be made to reduce potential negative impacts of the project, both in terms of
environment and social issues. The project will coordinate the design process with the
findings from  screening and studies related to soclo-economic Impacts and the
environment, In order to minimize negative impacts and maximize benefits.
When choosing among different design options, such as whether to construct a
realignment or improve the road through a built-up area,
environmental and social indicators shall be factored into the decision along with
technical and economic considerations. This practice will continue throughout the
project implementation period.
2    A ccttsus ustually stans berore (lie final alignnctt and hence (lie impact arca are dccided. lThcrefore,
a liitlc fargcr liLin Ilhc fiLlli?.cd ipacil nrca necd to bc includcd lo inakc surc th.aI all ilic proicct arfcctcd
pcople are covcrcd. Tlhc ntinibers of the project affectcd pcople mus1 be finializcd aflcr Ihc finalization of
road centerliines.



3.2.2 implementatton
During project implementation, the resettlement program will be coordinated with the
completion of designs and the likely timing of civil works. The project will provide
adequate notification, counseling and assistance to affected people so that they are able
to move or give up their assets without undue hardship before civil works are to start.
In the case of Land Acquisition, the procedure will follow the Land Act of 1979.
The project will ensure that civil works are not started on any road segment before
compensation and assistance to the affected population have been provided in
accordance with this policy framework'.
Resettlement work and updating of studies will be a continuous process throughout the
project
3.3 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.3.1 Overall coordination
The PWD In coordination with the Dzonkhags would be responsible for Implementing the
resettlement & rehabilitation activities. The Project will document detailed information
about institutional and organizational mechanisms required to implement the plan.
People responsible for cooidinating and implementing the land acquisition/resettlement
issues will be appointed, b sed on their experience in resettlement and social
development.
The project implementation requires coordination among different agencies, working In
different districts and jurisdictions. It the institutional assessment undertaken as part of
social assessment for project preparation identifies the need for capacity building for
resettlement related issues, such capacity building will be coordinated with the overall
project implementation schedule, to ensure that skilled staff are available to implement
resettlement activities without causing delays to civil works.
3.3.2 Transparency and accountabIlrt,
Through the information campaign and other consultation mechanisms, the project will
ensure that there is full transparency regarding the resettlement program and people's
entitlements. Payments of compensation and delivery of other support mechanisms will
be done in public settings to avoid any accusations of impropriety.
3.4  COSTS AND EBUDGETS
The project will prepare a consolidated overview of estimated costs. This will consist of
an item-wise budget estimate for resettlement implementation, including administrative
expense, monitoring and evaluation, and contingencies. The cost of resettlement will be
included in the overall costs of the project.
III somc cascs ivihere land for land option is being pursucd by afTected lhousciolds, duc to lhe lcad litne
itvolvcd, it 171iglht not be possible to completc llte conipensation proccss in time. In sticit cascs, the loss of
iticomic siffecred by tihe lhouscihold would bc compcnsatcd by tlhe projcct for the period of opportunity lost
by tIlic lousclold.



a
Values for compensation amounts and other support mechanisms will be adjusted
regularly based on inflation factors. The budget will incorporate a provision for this.
Delays or inadequacies in Implementing the resettlement program may lead to costly
delays in overall project implementation, since progress in civil works depends on
satisfactory completion of the resetUement program.
The Royal Govemment of Bhutan will pay for costs related to Land Acquisition,
compensation and cash grants, if any, provided to project affected persons. Other
support mechanisms, such as training, capacity building, income generating schemes
etc.. where necessary, can be funded by the IDA loan.
3.5 GRIEVANCE REDRESS
It is expected that through a participatory process and good compensation and support
mechanisms, acceptance of the project will be enhanced and complaints reduced.
There may nevertheless be individuals or groups who feel that they are not given
adequate support, or that their needs are not property addressed. The project will
therefore establish a Grievance Redress process with local committees (GYT, DYT)
which will hear complaints and facilitate solutions. If the issue is not resolved. the
Individual/group may approach PWD through the office of the local executive engineer. If
the issue remains still unresolved, people would have the right to approach RGOB as
per traditional practices.
3.6 MONITORING AND EVALUATION
The project will systematically monitor land acquisition and resettlement program, based
on (i) process monitoring (e.g. project inputs, expenditures, staff deployment, etc.); (ii)
output monitoring (e.g. results in terms of number of affected people compensated and
resettled, training held, credit disbursed, etc.); and (ili) impact evaluation (i.e.. longer-
term effect of the project on people's lives).
The first two types of monitoring will be conducted by the project with assistance of
social assessment consultants who would be appointed for the purpose.  This
information will serve to Inform project management about progress and results, and to
adjust the work program where necessary if delays or problems arise. The results of this
monitoring will be summarized in reports which will be submitted to the project
authorities and the IDA on a regular basis.
The project may also contract with an extemal agency (such as an academic institute or
professional consultants), to undertake independent evaluations at least twice during the
lifetime of the project: (1) As an input to a mid-term review, and (2) as a longer term
Impact evaluation as an input to a project completion report.
Provision will be made for participatory monitoring involving the project affected
people and beneficiaries of the resettlement program in assessing results and
impacts.






