Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19795-BHU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION (US$11.6 MILLION EQlUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF BHIUTAN
FORA
RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
November 19, 1999
Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 1999)
C'urrency Unit = Nu
Nu 1= US$ 0.023
US$ 1 =Nu 43
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       -      Country Assistance Strategy
DOR       -      Division of Roads
DYT       -      District Development Committee
ECOP      -      Environmental Codes of Practice
EF Design -      Environmentally Friendly Design
EMP       -      Environment Management Plan
ERR       -      Economic Rate of Return
FYP       -      Five Year Plan
GYT       -      Block Development Committee
ICB       -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -      International Development Association
ISDP      -      Integrated Sustainable Development Program
LACI      -      Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOC       -      Ministry of Communications
MOF       -      Ministry of Finance
NCB       -      National Competitive Bidding
NEC       -      National Environment Commission
NEDA      -      Netherlands Development Association
PHRD      -      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMR       -      Project Management Reports
RAA       -      Royal Audit Authority
RAP       -      Resettlement Action Plan
RGOB      -      Royal Government of Bhutan
SFO       -      Senior Financial Officer
SOE       -      Statement of Expenditure
SNV       -      Netherlands Development Organization
TA        -      Technical Assistance
UNCDF   -        United Nations Capital Development Fund
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Frannie Leautier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Thampil Pankaj



BHUTAN
Rural Access Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       11
3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            14
2. Financial                                                                           15
3. Technical                                                                           15
4. Institutional                                                                       17
5. Social                                                                              18
6. Environmental assessment                                                            20
7. Participatory approach                                                              21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      22
2. Critical risks                                                                      22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      23



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   31
Annex 5: Financial Summary & Financial Management                                        37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     49
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            53
Annex 1 1: Environmental Assessment                                                      55
MAP(S)
IBRD 30466



BHUTAN
RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASIN
Date: October 20, 1999                            Team Leader: Thampil Pankaj
Country Manager/Director: John W. Wall            Sector Manager/Director: Frannie A. Leautier
Project ID: P059481                               Sector(s): TR - Rural Roads
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): TRANSPORT
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan        N Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 11.6
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  l Multicurrency [ Single currency
O Standard Variable 3 Fixed        -II LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):                                 Years to maturity:
Commitment fee: 0.0                                   Service charge: 0.75%
FiRnci#g P12A.:   Soui~                                 _____.-_
Government                                                     2.30           0.00          2.30
IBRD
IDA                                                            2.20           9.40          11.60
NETHERLANDS DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                            0.30           0.70           1.00
Total:                                                         4.80          10.10          14.90
Borrower: KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
Responsible agency:
DIVISION OF ROADS
Other Agency(ies):
Division of Roads, Ministry of Commuications
Address: Thitnphu, Bhutan
Contact Person: Kunzang Wangdi
Tel: 975-2-322237                Fax: 975-2-321124                Email: rap@druknet.net.bt
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual     1.0           2.2         3.4         3.6         1.3         0.1
Cumulative     1.0          3.2          6.6       10.2        11.5         11.6
Project implementation period: S years (January 2000 - December 2004)
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/2000  Expected closing date:  04/30/2005
OCSPAD F-n:Odd9. 19SWO



A: Project Development Objectivfe
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to improve the access of rural communities to markets, schools,
health centers and other economic and social infrastructure, in order to improve the quality of life and
productivity of rural communities. The pro ject will also help strengthen institutional capacity for
implementing environmentally friendly approaches to improve rural access, community involvement in
rural roads selection and management, and improved infrastructure maintenance. These objectives reflect
RGOB's policy of balanced regional development and decentralization, and its dedication to
environmentally sustainable development. The project will initially focus on three selected dzongkhags
(districts), where rural access problems are more acute. The project will promote a program approach;
accordingly, in addition to or in lieu of the initial list of roads selected and appraised, other investments will
be considered during the project according to RGOB's priorities as reflected in their Five Year plans,
subject to their conforming to social, environmental and economic criteria agreed between RGOB and IDA.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project objectives will be monitored by the following indicators: (i) average travel time and transport
costs in project areas (to be reduced by a minimum 50%); (ii) reduced distance to health and education
services; (iii) higher enrollment of boys andJ girls in primary and junior high schools in corridor of impact,
(iv) improved road maintenance system through involvement of local communities; (iv) Dzongkhag rural
access master plans prepared using participatory processes and endorsed by people's representatives; and
(v) wider acceptance of environmental safeguards in construction and maintenance practices.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: P6016-BHU                              Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/06/93
The last CAS was prepared in FY94. A newy CAS will be presented alongside this Credit, reflecting
developments in Bhutan and in its relationslhip with the World Bank. This project supports the Government
objective, reflected in the latest CAS, of expanding the very limited essential road network, improving its
maintenance, increasing private sector participation in these activities, and shortening road connections to
improve rural access. It also supports the objective of encouraging beneficiary and community
participation through the adoption of appropriate technology to maximize local benefits and minimize
environmental impacts.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background and General Issues. Bhutan' s development has been rapid and broadly shared. Up until the -
1 950s Bhutan was isolated from the rest of the world, and its dispersed rural population was entirely
dependent upon subsistence agriculture. Once it opened up to the outside world in the 1960s, Bhutan
embarked upon a far reaching development strategy that has been articulated in successive five year plans,
the latest being the Eighth Plan covering the period 1997-2002. On the basis of the development strategy
articulated in these five year plans, Bhutan has developed a physical infrastructure of roads, power supply,
telecommunications, and water supply that now serves a growing share of the population. At the same time
the Government has developed a social infrastructure of education and health services which have, despite
the difficult terrain and scattered population, greatly improved access to education and health services. The
Government's strategy in every sector is guided by its Vision Statement "Bhutan 2020: A Vision for
Peace, Prosperity and Happiness" which seeks a "cautious interpretation of modemization". The Vision
Statement puts human happiness, not economic growth, at the center of the nation's vision and values, and
calibrates the ambitions of development policy to Bhutan's ability to absorb change without creating
alienation and excessive inequality:
"Our guiding principles for the future development of our nation and for the safeguarding
of our sovereignty and security as a nation-state must be complemented by a single
unifying concept of development,...the distinctively Bhutanese concept of Gross National
Happiness. ... The concept places the individual at the center of all development efforts
and it recognizes that the individual has material, spiritual and emotional needs. It asserts
that development cannot and should not be defined exclusively in material terms. ... The
concept of Gross National Happiness must be translated into objectives that are able to
give direction to the Kingdom's long-term development. ... These objectives are: human
development; culture and heritage; balanced and equitable development; govemance; and
environmental conservation."
Hydropower development and export of power would be the main means for financing development of
basic social and economic infrastructure. Preserving the country's forest cover (at an irreducible minimum
of 60% of land), and its rich bio diversity will be central to the development strategy.
From the above national strategy follows the main sector strategy for the transport sector: to facilitate
balanced regional development, national and international trade and transport, and to improve the access of
poorer communities to the mainstream of economic and social development. RGOB gives importance to
improving rural access in a systematic way so as to provide means for enhancing rural productivity in
farms and cottage industries, and to make rural life attractive, productive and with reasonable access to
markets, schools and health centers. The vitalitv of the rural sector and its ability to become part of the
cash economy are very important given that 85% of the population is rural, and the urban areas have a
limited capacity to absorb rapid growth.
Past Road Sector Performance. In its Five Year Plans, RGOB has given priority to investments in
essential infrastructure, providing better access to basic services, improving quality of life in the rural
sector, supporting community participation in development activities, and promoting private sector
involvement in project implementation. In 1960 Bhutan had no roads. Until then, it was a country with
subsistence agriculture, which remained isolated from the rest of the world. However, since then substantial
resources have been allocated for road development, during the past six Five Year Plans, as part of its
economic development strategy. This has produced a more modern economy and greater prosperity. At
present, the country has a network of 3,375 km (National Highway 1586 kmn, District Roads 415 km,
- 3 -



Feeder Roads 1296 km and Urban Roads 73 km) which serves nearly all dzongkhags (district)
headquarters. During this period, Bhutan's per capita income increased substantially, from about US$290
equivalent in 1985 to US$480 equivalent in 1998. Most of the farming communities in the country are
even now about 2-3 days' walking distance from the nearest roads, and many communities lack adequate
access to markets, schools and health centers.
The country has a well developed community-based participatory planning system which is the basis to
select regional priorities for development, including high priority rural roads which are identified, but
currently lack funding.
The main constraints to road development and maintenance are the country's rugged and fragile terrain and
the lack of trained and skilled manpower to design and construct roads in an environmentally friendly way
and to manage the road network, and shortage of funding.
The 7th Five Year Plan FYP (1992-1997) objective for the sector was to construct and maintain the road
network and bridges to facilitate efficient movement of goods and services. Expansion of the road network
was limited to ensure sustenance of the capacity for essential maintenance. As far as possible, road
construction and maintenance works were done through private contractors. A total of 41 km of new roads
and 450 km of resurfacing were completed during the 7th FYP, and the number of bridges from 210 to 320
by 1998. In-country training for middle and lower level technicians was implemented.
Objectives of the Eighth Five-Year Plan. The main objectives of the current Plan (1997-2002) are to
develop a regionally balanced network that is safe, convenient and economical to use, and to preserve the
past capital investment in roads, reduce cost, of vehicle operation and travel time of road users and develop
road construction and maintenance (resurfacing) capabilities in the private sector. The main strategies
include: (i) developing guidelines and practices for road design, construction and maintenance which cause
minimum adverse impact to environment; (ii) promoting larger private sector role in road construction and
maintenance through contracting; (iii) development of a long term comprehensive road master plan; (iv)
developing a suitable pavement maintenance management system; (v) improving maintenance systems for
rural roads; (vi) improving geometric features of roads to reduce accidents; (vii) timely resurfacing of
existing roads to reduce vehicle operating costs; (viii) strengthening institutional capacity through further
training, and (ix) utilizing locally available rraterials and resources whenever possible.
Prioritization of Sector Resources through Participatory Processes: The current planning processes in
the road sector involves extensive local participation. The structured local participation processes used in
Bhutan for planning and prioritization of infrastructure investments provide the basis to select project
components. In preparing Five year plans, as in other matters involving nationwide consultation, Bhutan
follows a policy of elaborate bottom-up consultation and review from Gewog Committees (at village level)
through Dzongkhag or district councils, to the Planning Commission and National Assembly in a two-way
national dialogue. Initially, priorities, for roads for example, are listed by Gewogs, then recast based on
consensus reached at district level meetings of Gewogs and Dzongkhag councils, and then reviewed and
recast by RGOB sector agencies and the Plainning Commission, taking into account overall national
priorities, and sector and regional balance; they are then reviewed and changed/agreed at district level
meetings attended by the King and community representatives, and finally approved by the National
Assembly. The roads selected under the proposed Rural Access Project are all part of the list of priority
roads selected for implementation under the 8th FYP, following the above consultative process.
- 4 -



Sector Allocations. Expenditures for road sub-sector (3200 km) represent about 9% of the total outlays
planned for the Eight Five Year Plan; 28% of the total expenditure is for routine and periodic maintenance.
The table below compares physical and financial targets of the 7th and the current 8th Five Year Plan, and
outlines the main composition of expenditures within the road sector.
Road Transport Plan and Expenditures
Program                    Physical                     Financial
(h_____ _  n!       ~       L(Nu. ln m)
Achieved       Target        Achieved        Target
7th FYP       8th FYP        7th FYP        8t FYP
1. Road Maintenance
1.1 Routine                   1739          2070           152            300
1.2 Restoration                             1850           142            225
1.3 Resurfacing_              360           1040           173            360
Sub-Total                    4990           467            885
2. Road Construction
2.1 Formation Cutting         119            313                          953
2.2 Base Course               105                          257
2.3Bitumen Sealing             50
2.4 Permanent Works            89
Sub-Total      363           313            257            953
3. Road Immrovement
3.1 Widening                  167            204                          547
3.2 Base Course                46                           94
3.3 Bitumen Sealing            19
3.4 Permanent Works            78
3.5 Realipnment         I_                   27__                         134
Sub-Total      310           231            94             681
4. Bridge Construction
Sub-Total      15      I      10             o 109  ]      230
Summarv Plan Expenditures                             l             l
A. Capital Exp.                                       l    928            2549
B. Recurrent                                         i                    650
Total Expenditure                             r             r    3200
About 1300 km of forest and other utility roads, which are maintained by other Agencies i.e. Forest, Telecom and Power,
Agriculture, etc., are not included in these estimates.
The above table indicates that greater emphasis is being placed on maintenance activities; after adjusting
for inflation, the allocation for maintenance has increased by about 45% as against an increase of 12% in
the length of the road network being managed by the Division of Roads (see management of the road sector
below).
Lack of Adequate Access to Basic Rural Services. Bhutan's rural life is affected by the lack of access to
education, health and transport services in its rural communities, because of the long walking distances
involved (most distances being measured in days of walking or mule porterage to the nearest road). The
relatively small size of the population in an average rural community (about 30,000 in a whole district, out
of the country's total population of about 600,000, and maybe about 5000-10,000 people in a road service
area), and the mountainous terrain make road building expensive. This could be seen as uneconomic if one
- 5-



considers only savings from transport cost r eduction. Rural access improvements however provide more
substantial benefits in providing access to health, education and other essential services, and in bringing the
communities into the main stream of national life, and in reducing migration to urban centers. The
economic appraisal for this project reflects this approach of looking at overall benefits from improved rural
access by assessing quantifiable benefits from improved school enrollments, health access and indeed better
access to markets.
Given Bhutan's mountainous terrain, and RGOB's policy to preserve its forests (covering 72% of total
land), the cultivable land is limited to about 8% of total land area; these farm lands are dispersed over a
large number of small valleys and mountain slopes, where Nature placed them, and where the vast
majority of population lives. Farms nevertheless produce more than half of Bhutan's national income. It is
therefore critical for the survival of its economy and for the preservation of its rich rural culture, that these
scattered rural communities receive basic social amenities such as education and health services, and also
better transport access which is essential for providing other services. Otherwise, these farming
communities will gradually disintegrate, leading to decline in farm production and growth of urban sprawls.
Poor road access means poor market access, poor health access and poor school access:
(i) several areas are located 2-3 days' xvalking distance from nearest road; mule transport (60 kg,-15
km in one day) costs about US$3 per ton-km compared to US$0.1 per ton-km by motorized vehicle on a
road. This distance prevents crop-diversification and growing of marketable cash crops, causes damage to
perishable crops taken to market and poor availability of extension services etc., impeding farming output
and income;
(ii) poor road access reduces access to medical facilities, resulting in more deaths (maternity deaths and
others) and more sick days out of work;
(iii) most important, poor access reduces school facilities available to rural children, with many social
and economic consequences. While community and primary schools are in most villages, it is not feasible
to build and operate Junior High and other higher schools in inaccessible areas, since all building and other
materials have to be carried on expensive mule-hauls and some construction equipment cannot be so
carried. The results of poor road access (or long walking distance) to schools are: (a) lower enrollment
rates in Junior High School and above in less accessible areas due to distance and due to many young
people being fully occupied by porterage of g,oods to and from markets which involve long walks (the
villages have shortage of labor due to transport tasks); (b) much lower girls' enrollment rates as parents
are reluctant to send young girls away to boarding schools, and parents also wish to have them share in
household chores after school hours; and (c) high cost incurred by Govermnent for building and operating
free boarding facilities at distant Junior High Schools to accommodate children from inaccessible rural
areas. This also defeats the Government's strategy to encourage children to study and grow up in their own
rural surroundings. Even at the primary school level, where schools are located in remote areas, both the
enrollnent level and quality of education remain lower;
(iv) a recent study contrasting relatively accessible (0-0.5 day walk to nearest road) and inaccessible
(1-3 days walk) areas of the same district (Z'hemgang) showed these remarkable results (see table below),
highlighting the overall development impact of improved access. In the following, the data for 'accessible
area' relate to the Trong Gewog (group of villages), and 'inaccessible areas' cover the remaining 5 gewogs
in the same district, the main difference amon1g these areas being ease of road access. One of the project
roads (Dakpai-Buli Road) will be located in the 'inaccessible' part of this district.
- 6 -



Location:  Zhemgang District
.Accessiblet (0-.5 days walkto   'Not AMcessible (1-3 days walk to nearest
Scenario                 nearest road)          road) (average of 6 remaining Gewogs m-
(Trong, Gewog)                      same district)
Distance to nearest              0-0.5 day                           1-3 days
road (walking time)
Average annual                   8,080 Nu                           3,270 Nu
income/farm household
Enrollment of boys                 73%                                42%
(Age 6-16)
Enrollment of girls                64%                                22%
(Age 6-16)
Ref: "Grain, Money and Labour" by Marlen Arkesteijn, Zhemgang Dzongkhag AdministrationllSDP, Bhutan, April 1996
Management of the Road Sector. At present, road infrastructure in Bhutan is mainly the responsibility of
the Division of Roads (DOR) in the Ministry of Communication. The network under DOR management
includes some 2,069 km (i.e., 1,090 km of national highways, 353 km of district roads, 548 km of feeder
roads and 78 km of urban roads). DANTAK (India) still oversees 574 km of roads which will be gradually
be transferred to DOR, and there are some feeder roads (732 kin) which are still under the Divisions of
Forest, Agriculture and Power. In addition, local and farm roads (see section below), and mule tracks are
managed by local government agencies.
The DOR has four sections in Thimphu, i.e., (i) maintenance & construction, (ii) planiing, survey and
design, (iii) bridges and (iv) mechanical. The field organization consists of 3 circles headed by a
Superintending Engineer, and is further sub-divided into 8 divisions throughout the country. The DOR and
its field divisions implement new road construction through contractors, rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works predominantly through contractors (less than 20% through force account), and routine
maintenance through small contractors and partly through force account.
The DOR is a traditional public oriented department with increasing responsibilities as the network
gradually expands. The DOR works within the Government's regulatory environment where processes are
relatively efficient, but sometimes delayed given the demands from greater decentralization. The DOR is
not a very large department, and graduaily is expected to increase its reliance on contractors for civil
works. The DOR focuses on developing clear processes for the technical and functional areas, and is now
involved in developing a long term vision (i.e., master plan and maintenance program with external
assistance). DOR is an efficient organization, and maintains good standards in construction and
maintenance. RGOB allocates adequate funds for road maintenance with a fixed allocation per km for
feeder roads, so that feeder roads maintenance gets adequate priority. Repair works after landslides in the
rainy season (because of the country's mountainous terrain) constitute a difficult annual task because of the
unpredictable nature of landslides and the difficult logistics; but for this recurrent problem, which often
causes disruption of traffic, the road system, including the feeder roads, is maintained well. Local
communities are involved in road selection and prioritization of rural and district roads, and in all aspects
of farm roads and mule tracks (see section below). In the case of the rural roads under DOR, maintenance
- 7 -



is done through partly force account (througlh DOR's rNational Labour Force'), and partly contracts. A
pilot program under this proposed project will attempt to contract out road maintenance of some sections of
the project roads to local communities near the road alignments.
Local and Farm Roads and Mule Tracks. According to the Eighth Five Year Plan (8th FYP), the
implementation and development of local and farm roads and mule tracks, an important part of Bhutanese
rural transport system, in Bhutan is the responsibility of the Dzongkhag (district) Administrations. The
responsibilities of the Dzongkhag and the D:zongkhag Yargye Tshogchung (DYT - District Development
Committee) include the preparation of five year plans, annual plans and programs and execution of the
same, and the monitoring and review of progrrams in the Dzongkhag level. These local agencies also
participate in the prioritization and monitoring of district and feeder roads. The 8th FYP takes the
decentralization process a step further increasingly involving and developing the local capacities to start the
prioritization of development activities at the Gewog level (a block of villages). The functions of the
Gewog and the Gewog Yargye Tshogchung (GYT - Block Development Committee) include identifying,
reviewing and prioritizing development activities, identifying constraints in their implementation, and
ensuring local participation through Zhapto-L,emi (obligatory labour contribution by families for public
work) in timely and regular maintenance of local services and community institutions. In the 8th FYP the
emphasis is to continue building Dzongkhag level capacity in support of the Gewog level development
planning and management. As a further step in community involvement, the proposed project will promote
active involvement of the local communities in regular maintenance of the rural roads.
At present all of the resources spent by the DOR are Government resources and given the low volumes of
traffic in most roads there is little scope in the short term to foster private sector participation in the sector
in financing road investments. However, private sector contractors do all construction work and an
increasing share of maintenance works. RGOB recognizes the need for encouraging private sector
contracting industry and makes effort, including provision of training opportunities, to support them.
RGOB also maintains a transparent process of competitive bidding and has a system for classification,
registration of contractors. The large contrac,tors in the country went through a period of infant industry
problems in early 1990's. There are at present about 42 Class 'A' contractors (i.e. bid contracts above Nu.
3 million each), about 46 Class 'B' contractors (i.e. bid contracts above Nu. 2 million each), 162 Class 'C'
contractors (i.e. bid contracts above Nu. 0.5 million each) and more than 800 petty contractors who do
slope maintenance, post-monsoon restoration and other works. For major works funded by international
agencies, foreign contractors, primarily from India, participate. Recently, as part of the preparation of the
rural access project, training program on envi:ronmentally friendly construction/maintenance methods and
bio-engineering were provided, which includecl contractor's staff; more of such training will be done under
the project. There is scope for development of private consulting firms in design, socio-economic impact
and environmental impact assessment, related to roads. Some small firms have recently started in these
areas and are currently working on RGOB contracts. The proposed project will help expand the role of
such consultants. There are, however, opportunities for local consultants to complement the technical
capabilities of the DOR in the management of the road network. These challenges, and their implications
on the rural road network, have been considered in the design of the project.
- 8 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In addition to improving rural access in critical areas, the proposed project will provide a framework
and guidelines for balanced and sustainable development of rural infrastructure. Main features: (i) it will
provide the first major model in Bhutan for environmentally friendly rural road construction methods and
bio-engineering proposed to be applied for all project roads, thus assisting RGOB in finding a balanced
approach regarding investment and maintenance of selected rural access interventions with appropriate
standards; (ii) establishing geo-environmental capacities in DOR and dzongkhags; (iii) community
participation in road construction and maintenance activities; (iv) execution of road construction works
through private contractors, assisting in improving contract capacity, and efforts to develop small
contractors and comnmunity based contracting for maintenance; (v) developing appropriate design standards
for feeder roads, motorable tracks and mule tracks and their development as an integrated network; (vi)
development of maintenance systems and institutional arrangements for feeder roads to improve on present
arrangements, and (vii) development of an improved socio-economic impact evaluation system for guiding
investments in feeder roads and other rural access consistent with the 8th FYP strategy of improving
quality of life and enhancing economic efficiency in the rural areas. This evaluation system would provide
a framework for estimating rates of return based on economic and social benefits, and develop simplified
norms for evaluating and prioritizing future rural access improvements in Bhutan. The proposed project
will help realize the full potential of integrated agricultural development activities (ongoing) in some of the
project districts (such as Zhemgang) and would also complement other development programs supported by
donors in some other project districts.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In response to RGOB request, the project will follow a program-based approach and would assist in
implementing a program of construction and rehabilitation of about 120 km of feeder roads include as
priority roads under Bhutan's current Eighth Five-year Plan (1997-2002). In financial terms, this would
amount to about 22% of the capital expenditure for roads under the 8th FYP, and in physical terms about
38% of the length of roads to be constructed under the 8th FYP. Within the program approach, RGOB has
proposed that the project would initially cover three dzongkhags (Districts), i.e., Zhemgang, Lhuentse and
Trashi Yangtse, and other areas to be selected, all of which are areas with poor rural access and deficient
road infrastructure and also constitute some of the poorest areas in the country. Of the proposed project
roads, about 94 km have been tentatively identified and preparation work is in progress; a tentative list of
the remaining roads, has also been identified and will be subject to further studies within the first year of
the project, based on selection criteria agreed with IDA. Including this tentative list, the project will cover
4 dzongkhags, and 122 km of roads. Contract has already been awarded for 10 km of the project roads
under tentative retroactive financing arrangements with IDA; another 20 km will be awarded before
January 2000; thus the first year works will be about 25% of the total project roads. The project
components discussed below give more details of the roads selected by RGOB to be part of the project.
The proposed project components include:
A) Construction of New Priority Feeder Roads including:
(i) construction of a feeder road of about 37 km (Dakpai-Buli Road) in Zhemgang dzongkhag (linking
villages which are about 2 days walking distance from the nearest road) to be designed as a model for
environmentally friendly road construction in Bhutan. The road will help integrate rural road
development with the on-going Integrated Sustainable Development Program (ISDP funded by
9-



NEDAIRGOB), and with the proposed construction of a junior high school in the road area following
road construction. The road will also support integration of mule trails for the more remote villages to
the new road. It will also introduce cornmmunity maintenance commitments for road stretches near
beneficiary villages;
(ii) construction of about 37 km of feeder roads to link Lhuentse and Dungkhar villages, in the Lhuentse
district;
(iii) construction of about 20 km of feeder roads to link Gomkora-Tomzhantsen, Tsenkharla-Kheni and
Bartsham-Ramjar villages, in the Trashi Yangtse district;
(iv) rehabilitation or construction of about 28 km of additional feeder roads to be selected based on
economic, social and environmental criteria agreed between RGOB and IDA. The tentative list
provided (which is subject to change) include: Bartsham-Bidung Phongmey School (10 km); Thrimshing
Dungkhag Office-Tshangpo School (3 bin); Mukuzor-Tshogonpa School (5 km); Pangthang-Yechhen
BHU (2 km); feeder road to Gomphu village (8 km); of these, the last falls in Zhemgang district, and the
rest in Tashigang district. All these project roads are from the priority list included in the 8th Five Year
Plan, based on extensive community-level consultation and overall economic importance (see Section B
on consultation processes).
Consistent with the program approach, the roads curently described in (i) through (iii) above are
also subject to cahnge, and different roads may be selected based on the economic, social and
environmental criteria agreed between RGOB and IDA.
B) Office and Transport Equipment for DOR. This includes survey equipment, office equipment and
vehicles to provide logistic support for projet monitoring and supervision.
C) Project management assistance, training and technical assistance. These inputs would assist during the
introduction and dissemination of environmentally friendly design and implementation practices for rural
road construction and maintenance, for institutional capacity building both in the public and private sector,
and for project implementation support (see Annex 2 for detailed project components and costs, and
Annex-7 for details of TA).
Indicative              a*        %f
Sec000tor    # EX-  Costs  % o   f
(US$M   TotawJ$             i~~
1. Construction of feeder roads                       12.50       83.9     10.20       87.9
(about 122 km)
2. Office and Transport Equipment                       0.30       2.0       0.30       2.6
3. Project Management Assistance and                    1.50       10.1      0.50       4.3
Training
4. Institutional Strengthening and                     0.60        4.0       0.60       5.2
Studies
Total Project Costs                   14.90      100.0      11.60     100.0
Total Financing Required                    14.90      100.0     11.60      100.0
- 10 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Continued support for decentralization, community participation, improvements in rural road maintenance
management systems, and wider adoption and mainstreaming of environmentally friendly methods in rural
roads construction and maintenance.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will be undertaken in four dzongkhags, viz Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trasi Yangste and
Trashigang. Of these, inclusion of the last district is tentative (see para. C 1 (A) (iv) above). The total
population of these districts is estimated at about 110,000. The project will benefit particularly these
districts and generally the whole country. The likely benefits of the project are:
(i) improved access to markets, which will promote economic and income-generating activities, improve
crop diversification and profitability and help reduce poverty;
(ii) improved access to schools and health centers, which will raise enrollment levels of girls and boys,
enhance quality of schools within project area, provide opportunities for receiving education and hence
higher income in future, improve health and quality of life of the rural population;
(iii) more job opportunities created by the project, both temporary and permanent, which will especially
benefit the poor because of the use of labor-based technology of the environmentally friendly road works;
(iv) reducing the migration of rural population to urban centers, and preventing possible abandonment of
rural farms which are important for the country's development and welfare; and
(v) improved capacity to rehabilitate and maintain rural roads in the project districts from the availability
of trained local contractors and consultants, as well as improved planning and management capability,
resulting in better use of public funds, reduced transport costs, and higher trafficability.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Within the decentralization framework supported by RGOB's procedures, the proposed implementation
framework would be as follows. The implementing agency will be the Division of Roads (Head Office in
Thimphu, with regional offices in each district/dzongkhag). The linkage between the staff of Division of
Roads (DOR) and the dzongkhag Administration staff will be strengthened during project implementation.
Execution of road works will be through private contractors according to IDA procurement guidelines.
A Project Cell under a Project Manager (a senior DOR engineer) has been established in DOR Thimphu to
coordinate engineering design and contractor procurement activities, develop and implement training
programs, establish the monitoring and evaluation system for the project, supervise the studies and lead the
inter-dzongkhag coordination activities.
In each of the project dzongkhags, the DOR and respective dzongkhag administration will set up the
necessary capacities to carry out the feeder road development and improvement activities, and coordinate
the Gewog level activities for tracks and trails development. DOR will appoint additional two section
officers (engineers) in DOR head office to assist the Project Manager in project monitoring. DOR also
agreed to appoint a Site Engineer in each project district exclusively for project supervision and contract
management, reporting to the Project Manager for works supervision, each assisted by 2 Section Officers.
The road engineering and maintenance units in the dzongkhag administrations will be concurrently
strengthened, so as to assume greater responsibility for feeder road project implementation and
maintenance; the proposed project will support these efforts.
- 1 1 -



A Technical Assistance Team consisting of expatriate and local consultants (funded by NEDA for the first
half of the project, and by IDA for continuing such inputs at a reduced level during the second half of the
project), will assist the Project Manager in the design of remaining works and supervision/monitoring of the
project. (More detailed project management arrangements are given in Section E).
The project is expected to have an impact on strengthening the maintenance capabilities in the selected
project areas, and the capacity for project implementation at the district level.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The traditional methods of road design and construction (using bull-dozing and pushing down the materials
on the mountain slopes) was considered and abandoned. These methods, which would be cheaper by about
20-30%, would damage farm areas and the enviromnent, and would be more expensive in overall costs in
the long run; it was decided therefore to adopt more environmentally friendly methods involving cutting and
filling, and hauling the materials to suitable locations, combined with bio-engineering methods for
protecting the slopes from failure. Similarly, in selection of alignments, geological conditions were
carefully weighted in, to avoid alternatives which are geologically less stable, and would have caused more
landslides.
In determining which dzongkhags would be included under the project, consideration was given by RGOB
to the current Development Plan and to similar projects being pursued by other donor agencies. The
districts selected to participate in the project have the least developed rural road networks, and have good
development potential; these roads are part of the priority roads included in the 8th FYP. The program
approach agreed for sub-project selection allows RGOB to select other roads/districts subject to selection
criteria agreed with IDA; RGOB's intention, however, is to stick with these roads/districts.
2. Major related projects financed by thie Bank andlor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1  Latest Su pervision
SetrIssue                       ProRjRaint
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _C_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ;;_   _______________________  (B a k-fin e   '0   pr olije cts     o nly ) 0|
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
NOTE: IDA has not financed any road
projects in Bhutan.
Other development agencies
See Note below.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
NOTE:
United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) completed 3 projects for rural roads development in
some districts , including institutional support and technical assistance in road management and
maintenance, and plans to have a follow up project. These projects are not in the districts where the
- 12-



proposed IDA project is focusing, and IDA and UNCDF are coordinating their activities so as to mutually
complement efforts.
Asian Development Bank recently completed TA project for preparing "Bhutanese Environmental
Assessment Sectoral Guidelines" which included highways and roads, which have since been accepted by
RGOB; this project also provided technical assistance to the Ministry of Comminucations for improved
procurement procedures, and for improved engineering designs for roads based on the new environmental
guidelines. These inputs are being used for preparing the proposed rural access project. Also, ADB is
currently assisting RGOB in preparing, through consultants, a comprehensive maintenance strategy and
plan for Bhutan's highway network; this would be completed by June 2000.
In addition, there have been bilateral assistance notably from the Japanese Government for the construction
of bridges, and from the Swiss Government and Netherlands Government in integrated development of
some districts including support for improving rural access. Three of the four districts covered under the
RAP receive such foreign assistance in agriculture or integrated development.
The above projects have been generally successful in spite of early delays in some cases. The proposed
IDA-funded project incorporates lessons learned from these projects. They have also given considerable
experience to DOR officers and to local contractors in dealing with relatively large internationally funded
projects, which will assist in the proposed Rural Access Project. Some of the first donor projects faced
delays due to lack of experience of domestic contractors, but contractor capacity has improved recently.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In ongoing rural road projects funded by other donors, where labor-based technology and community
-participation were introduced for the rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads, project preparation
and implementation was centralized with DOR with a limited role for the dzongkhags in project
management. A clear lesson in Bhutan is that beneficiaries need to be involved in all stages of project
preparation to increase the effectiveness of the proposed investments, and to complement the participatory
system RGOB follows in the selection of priority roads. Other lessons are strengthening coordination
between DOR staff and dzongkhag administration, and improving road designs to be environmentally
friendly. Based on these lessons, the preparation and implementation of the proposed operation will
incorporate the following: (i) the preparation of a dzongkhag level rural access plan (including mule tracks
for better access to feeder roads) will be undertaken (in coordination with on-going planning activities) in
each project district, involving beneficiaries participation to maximize project benefits; (ii) Community
involvement in road maintenance will be initiated on a pilot basis in project districts; (iii) the dzongkhag
and DOR will have better coordination mechanism in managing the contractors and supervision consultants
working on the project roads in their respective districts; (iv) a suitable disbursement and fund flow system
will be developed to ensure timely flows of Bank funds to the sub-projects; and (v) appropriate
environmental friendly technology must be adopted to ensure sustainability, and road standards adopted
will have to be compatible with the volume of traffic expected on the roads.
Experience with rural road projects indicates that during preparation an effort should be made to keep the
project design simple, in particular considering the unique set of circumstances in Bhutan, e.g., small
country size, its good governance, fair social systems and well-known commitment to preserve the
environment. IDA Guidelines which are designed for larger countries should be applied with appropriate
flexibility following the spirit of these guidelines.
- 13 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower attaches high priority to the project, as it supports the goals and programs of the Five Year
Plan, and the country's "vision statement", and is in fact part of the 8th FYP. RGOB and dzongkhag
administrations have already demonstrated their commitment by taking quick actions in 1999, satisfactory
to both IDA and NEDA, in appointing international experts to be more environmentally friendly, and in
changing contract terms for the first road contract (Dakpai-Buli) to follow the new designs, and in
completing design of 25 km of additional roads (first year project roads) based on similar design; and in
fully compensating project affected persons (PAP) expeditiously, following IDA guidelines, in road
sections where work has started and more work will start soon (Dakpai-Buli Road). It has been
emphasized by RGOB at all levels that their intention as per the national vision statement to preserve
environment, to be fair in dealing with PAPs, and to improve access for rural communities to basic
economic and social infrastructure, thereby improving their productivity, welfare and happiness. DOR has
held workshops on Environmental Code of Practice (ECOP) and a draft of ECOP is under preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this piroject:
IDA can provide RGOB, as it has already done during project preparation, with valuable experience from
the preparation and implementation of similar projects in the subcontinent and in other developing
countries. This is focused on the adoption of environmentally friendly road construction and maintenance,
labor-based technology as applicable in such road works, and capacity building for improved maintenance,
decentralization and financial management/reporting. The Bank will apply its experience from other
countries to help promoting best practices in these areas. IDA support has also induced other cofinancing
support, from Japan for project preparation through a PHIRD grant, and from NEDA for project
implementation. The proposed project is likely to become a model for Bhutan for implementing its future
road projects with appropriate environmenta]l and bio-engineering standards, even though initially these
were thought to be expensive. IDA assistance will also add value in introducing for the first time a project
evaluation methodology for quantifying both economic and social benefits, which RGOB will adopt for
future project evaluation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 15 %
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
Estimnate of economic return from the project, including quantifiable social and economic benefits, indicates
an ERR exceeding 15%. The socio-economic evaluation of the 37 km Dakpai-Buli road was carried out in
detail with the help of data collected by local consultants (Kyingkhor Consultants), using a comprehensive
methodology for estimating benefits attributable to the road in transport cost savings, improved agricultural
production and net additional agricultural income, improved enrollment levels in schools and related net
incremental life-time income of the additional persons receiving education, since these children would have
remained uneducated without the improved road access; and health benefits (reduced number of sick days
and deaths) from improved access to health centers. Preliminary results indicate economic returns of above
15% for this road (37 km costing about US$3.,6 million, with about 8,000 direct beneficiaries whose access
to the nearest road currently involves about 2 days walking). This amounts to a per capita cost of about
US$450 in terms of project cost per beneficiary. Based on this, the per capita investment corresponding to
12% ERR will be about US$560. In other words, based on the Buli road impact analysis, a per capita
investment per beneficiary of US$560 (in 199'3 prices) is considered viable at 12% ERR. In view of the
- 14 -



difficulty of repeating such detailed studies for all the project roads, and since the Dakpai-Buli road can be
considered a typical case for Bhutan's rural areas, and since the access problems and economic conditions
are similar in the service areas of other project roads, it is appropriate to apply the norm of a maximum per -
capita (per beneficiary) cost of US$560 as the threshold for economic viability for the other project roads
as well. This criterion will need to be satisfied for all project roads. Our preliminary analysis for the
project roads shows that the per-capita investment in remaining project roads would be less than US$450.
This indicates that the overall Project ERR would exceed 15%, estimated for the Dakpai-Buli Road. More
details are given in Annex 4 and Project Files.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Fiscal Impact:
The proposed project, to be implemented during part of the current Eighth Five Year Plan and the future
Ninth Five Year Plan, is a high priority project for the Government. The additional development (capital)
resources for the proposed project would amount to 25% of the planned annual capital expenditures for
roads under the Eighth Five Year Plan. The recurrent expenditure requirements, in terms of additional
maintenance requirements, would be included in the maintenance allocation and planning (for each of the
project years) from Government resources. While IDAINEDA will assist in meeting part of the capital
costs, RGOB can absorb the additional recurrent expenditures through their annual budgets. The annual
routine maintenance costs will be about US$400 equivalent per km (about US$50,000 annually on
completion of total project covering 122 km); in addition, periodic maintenance would be needed once in
every 4-5 years.
Financial Management: The National Budget and Aid Coordination Division (NBAD) of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), which handles the foreign currency special account, is familiar with the World Bank
disbursement procedures since they have been satisfactorily managing several on-going projects in the
country. Therefore, there would be no problem in commencing the project using traditional mode of
disbursements. During appraisal, the financial system of the Division of Roads (DOR) in Ministry of
Communications (MOC) was reviewed to identify the type of external support required by the departmental
accounting staff for the phased introduction of disbursements based on Project Management Reports
(PMRs). On the basis of the review, a suitable time frame has been agreed with DOR and MOF to fill up
the gaps identified in the proposed review to graduate to PMR-based disbursements in a phased manner. It
has been agreed with MOC and MOF that PMR-based disbursements will be adopted not later than
July 1, 2001. Annex 5 details the proposed financial management arrangements and the plan of action.
The project will provide for a technical assistance component to meet the costs of consultant(s) salaries,
accounting software, computers, training etc., to build up DOR's financial management capacity.
3. Technical:
Current design of actual rural access infrastructure. The Road Design Manual of DOR lists four
categories of roads: national highways, district roads, feeder roads and village and access roads. The
formation widths for speeds up to 60 km/h are as follows:
- 15 -



Highways: Class AA (2 lanes)                      6.0 m             1.0 m              8.0 m
Highways: Class A (I lane)                       3.5 m              1.5 m              6.5 m
Districts roads: Class B                         3.5 m              1.0 m              5.5 m
Feeder roads: Class C                            3.0 m              0.75 m             4.5 m
Village and access roads: Class D                3.0 m              0.5 m              4.0 m
Where no roads exist, transport is done by mule or head-loading using mule trails and footpaths. The cost
of building roads varies according to the local geography and characteristics of the soil/rock from about
US$60,000/km upward. The mule tracks follow traditional routes and are improved or constructed where
needed by the rural communities, and their cost is low, estimated to be under US$1 0,000/km.
The proposed project aims to improve rural access; its interventions will include the construction and
rehabilitation of feeder roads but it will also include support to the development and improvement of tracks
and trails as these tracks and trails form an essential part of the rural access network and a good network of
tracks and trails allows to extend the influence of feeder roads. The project will assist in the preparation by
local communities/dzongkhags of rural access: plans to improve tracks/trails to new roads; it will also assist
in piloting maintenance of the project roads with involvement of local communities.
During preparation it appears evident that there is scope, in some areas, for an intermediate rural access
infrastructure between the lowest category of roads and the main mule trails, which could be defined as
motorable tracks. A motorable track would provide a low-cost option for the access to rural communities
as an upgrade of mule tracks. As is the case for mule tracks, community participation would be essential
for the construction and maintenance of motorable tracks. A motorable track would have geometric
standards comparable to farm roads, they wou]ld have a formation width of 2.5 to 3.0 meter and cost
around US$20,000. A motorable track could be used by motor tillers, tractors and trailers and four wheel
drive vehicles but not by trucks or buses. Suitable geometric standards could be defined that would allow a
motorable track to be expanded later into a class C or D road. The rural access plans to be prepared in
project districts will potentially include such motorable tracks.
Design and execution of roads by environmentally friendly methods. Respect for the environment is a
tradition in Bhutan. Recently the Government has taken a further step in this direction by preparing
Environmental Code of Practice (ECOP) and Environmental Assessment Sectoral Guidelines. The first
application of these guidelines for an Environmental Assessment of a feeder road was done for the Dakpai -
Buli road in Zhemgang dzongkhag. This road is one of the roads proposed to be included under the
proposed project. The Government of the Netherlands which finances an integrated rural development
program in Zhemgang, has agreed to provide one million US$1 million towards the funding of the road/or
total project on the condition that an environmental assessment study is done and approved by the NEC
(this condition has been complied with) and on the condition that environment friendly techniques will be
used. (This is being done). The proposed project would help DOR design and execute this road as a model
of an environmentally friendly road. The project would include (i) training of DOR engineers involved in
the project in environmentally friendly road design and execution, and in bio-engineering techniques; (ii) the
setting up of a training cell in DOR for training DOR personnel involved in other road projects, as well as
personnel of other interested ministries and of the districts; (iii) technical assistance during the design and
execution of the road. The lessons learned durinig the construction of the Dakpai - Buli road will be applied
to the construction of other roads and also to the construction of motorable tracks and mule trails; in fact,
- 16 -



all project roads for the first year of the project have been designed using the new design criteria and
RGOB has agreed to follow these criteria for all roads.
Recent experience in the construction of mountain roads will take into account such recommendations
included in the " TRL Overseas Road Note 16: Principles of Low Cost Road Engineering in Mountainous
Regions", in particular recommendations regarding design, geo-technical assessment, hydrology and
hydraulic design, earthworks, drainage, road retaining walls, and slope protection and stabilization.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The planning and development of rural infrastructure in Bhutan is the responsibility of RGOB, carried out
in close coordination with the Dzongkhag ( district) Administrations. The management of the feeder road
network and execution of feeder road programs is the responsibility of the Division of Roads under RGOB,
though district-level agencies are closely involved in this work. The responsibilities of the Dzongkhag
Administration include the preparation of five year plans, annual plans and programs, and assistance in the
execution of the same and in the monitoring and review of programs, at the dzongkhag level. The
Dzongkhag Yargye Tshogchung (DYT - District Development Committee) works closely with the
dzongkhag administrations in the planning and coordination of development activities, including feeder
roads development.
Within this framework, the proposed implementation arrangements for the project would be as follows:
The implementing agency will be the Division of Roads (DOR under Ministry of Communications - Head
Office in Thimphu, with regional offices in each district/dzongkhag).
b. Project management:
For the planning, coordination, monitoring and supervision of all project components, DOR has appointed
a Project Manager ( an experienced senior engineer from DOR) and an assistant project manager in
Thimphu, who will be assisted by a small team of full-time project staff consisting of a civil engineer with
training in design and environmental engineering, and a project accountant, with initial assistance from a
financial consultant for introducing financial reporting system consistent with IDA requirements, and a
engineer with training in procurement. The project accounts will be supervised by the Finance Officer of
DOR. DOR will appoint additional two section officers in DOR head office to assist in project monitoring.
DOR also agreed to appoint a Site Engineer in each project district exclusively for project contract
supervision, reporting to the Project Manager for works supervision, each assisted by 2 Section Officers (in
charge of quality control, quantity measurements, environment control and payment certificates). The
executive engineer in each district will provide additional supervision, and will carry out 10% of quantity
measurement checks on a sample basis. The work progress and quantities will be certified by the project
engineer and sent to DOR project manager for processing payment to the contractor. These arrangements
are consistent with procedures followed by RGOB for other road projects.
A Technical Assistance and Training team consisting of Team Leader (TA), a project management
assistance team consisting of Bhutanese engineers, and short-term Experts (financed by NEDA) will be
appointed to assist the Project Cell with remaining project designs, project supervision, monitoring and
on-the-job training,.with particular emphasis on EF design and construction practices. The Project
Management Assistance Team will include a Senior Roads Engineer, an Environmental Engineer (to
monitor bio-engineering), and a Roads Engineer. The short term experts are identified in Annex-7. These
team inputs will be funded by NEDA for the first half of the project. It is expected that DOR would
strengthen its capacity during first 2 1/2 years of TA focused on training. In second half (from July 2002)
IDA will fund the local Project Management Team to continue project support to DOR. IDA would also
- 17-



provide other TA in EA, social assessment, participatory activities, institutional support and follow-up
project preparation. The linkage between the Division of Roads (DOR) and the dzongkhag staff will be
strengthened to ensure effective project implementation, community involvement, labor based construction,
and maintenance activities through District level project Coordination Committees.
The Project Manager in DOR would coordirnate engineering design and contractor procurement activities,
oversee project disbursement and accounts, develop and implement training programs, establish the
monitoring and evaluation system for each Project Cell (per road), supervise the studies and lead the
inter-dzongkhag coordination activities. IDA procurement procedures are new to DOR. Training in
procurement for DOR staff in engineering and accounts and finance divisions will be provided at the
beginning of project implementation.
5. Social:
The proposed project will have limited negative social irnpact and appropriate mitigating measures would
be put in place. Community participation will be actively sought during the preparation and implementation
of the project. All relevant safeguards from IDA guidelines have been introduced in project design.
A Social Assessment (SA) was carried out as a part of project preparation using participatory as well as
survey methodologies in the project areas of .Zhemgang, Lhuentse and Trashi Yangtse Dzonkhags. SA is
about to be commissioned in Zhemgang and Tashigang, where additional 28 Km of roads have been
identified very recently.
The SA, which was already carried out, served also as a medium for public consultations with the
communities on the proposed project, adverse effects, if any, and policy framework needed for mitigation of
such adverse impacts. The project involves marginal land acquisition and limited resettlement of rural
households. A detailed socio-economic data base has been prepared as part of the SA. This data base for
alignments already known covers all households which are likely to be adversely affected by the project and
also provides baseline data on a sample of other households in the area for impact monitoring in future.
The SA indicated an enthusiastic and overwhelming response from the communities towards the proposed
project. The proposed project will help remote rural areas gain better access to social infrastructure and
services and economic opportunities. People also perceive that these roads would help improve social
interactions and more importantly, give better access to highly revered religious and spiritual centers in
Bhutan.
The SA indicates that the present scenario is characterized by:
* Large amount of time spent for transportation of materials and supplies (human transport is the most
common means of transport. For larger quantities and heavier loads, mules are used);
* Acute shortage of manpower for farm activities (data indicates that half the needed person days are met
either through labor hire or labor exchange) mainly because of the time spent on transport;
*   Substantial demands placed on villagers f6r performing woola - villagers assisting in transportation
services for public purposes on a paid basis;
*   High costs for transportation of farm produce to markets (sample data collected during SA indicates
that farmers had to spend as much as 27%X) of sale value on transportation);
* Poor access to health and education services (such facilities for some of the villages are as far as 2
days walk, reflected in enrollment and drop out rates in general and in particular for girl children); and
- 18 -



* Good potential for better utilization and productivity of land resources (most farms are performing at
50 - 75% of potential yields; families with large land holdings do not fully utilize all the land; much of
what is grown is intended for domestic consumption and excess production, if any, is wasted).
In this context, the proposed rural roads is seen by local communities as a welcome project intervention
that would have economic, social and spiritual benefits.
One issue of concern has been the adverse effect, if any, of the project on family incomes from porterage
(manual & mule) activities. SA indicates that only few families have portering as a sole source of income.
Most families would be unaffected as such activity contributes to only part of the family income and
additional time made available due to reduced portering would be utilized for on farm activities. Focus
group discussions on this topic during SA with families which are solely dependent on this activity reveals
that there may not be any adverse impact on these families due to two factors. These are: (a) presence of
the feeder road would attract additional traffic from surrounding areas, and (b) due to availability of feeder
road, development activities in surrounding areas would increase thus resulting traffic to these areas.
However, it would be useful to monitor this aspect carefully during project implementation so that remedial
steps could be taken up if the assessments are proved wrong.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation: A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared for the Dakpai
Buli road (37 km). RAP preparation for Lhuentse - Dungkhar road (37 km), where road alignment is
finalized recently, has already been conimissioned. Affected families for the remaining roads would be
identified as soon as the road alignments are finalized and a RAP prepared for each road for IDA's review
and approval.
The specific data available for Dakpai - Buli and the overall data available from Social Assessment for
other roads indicates that the number of persons affected by the project (those whose lands are acquired and
those who would be displaced due to the project) and the extent of adverse impact on livelihoods is
expected to be minimal. Sample data from Dakpai - Buli indicates that 37 families are affected by land
acquisition and only one family displaced. The impact on livelihood is expected to be minimal as over 80%
of affected households would lose less than 5% of land holding. Maximum loss by suffered by one of the
households would be about 15%. Data from social assessments in Lhuentse and Tashi Yangtse also point
towards minimal number of PAPs and displacements. In Lhuentse, the road aligns clear of most of the
cultivated lands and properties and 21 families are likely to be affected and no major resettlement is
expected. In Tashi Yangtse, the Gomcora - Thrimshung (8 km), and Bartsham - Ramjar (7 krm) roads run
well clear of habitations and hence no major relocation is expected. In the case of Tshenkarla - Keni (5
km) road, depending on final alignment, few structures may be affected. Since 28 km of remaining feeder
roads have been identified for development very recently, the social assessment of these roads is yet to be
carried out. The situation on these roads are not expected to be very different.
Despite the marginal nature of land acquisition and limited resettlement involved, it is essential that all
affected families are adequately assisted to improve their living standards. Since all affected families could
not be identified at the timne of appraisal because all road selections were not finalized, a policy framework
has been formulated for resettlement and rehabilitation by RGOB in tune with the requirements of OD 4.30
and 4.20. Resettlement action plans would be prepared, implemented and monitored during the project
under this policy. RGOB has assured that no construction activity would be undertaken on any piece of
land before providing compensation and rehabilitation assistance applicable under the policy to the affected
household. Independent social assessment consultants would assist the project in preparation and
monitoring of the resettlement action plans.
- 19 -



Indigenous people and application of OD 4.20 : Data from SA and other available documents show that
the project beneficiaries and the potentially affected are the local population of the areas. There are no
separate disadvantaged groups different from dominant local population who are likely to be adversely
affected by the project. The project will benefit all the local people. Therefore the requirements of O.D.
4.20 are addressed by the design of the prcj ect itself and there is no need for a separate Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan for any particular group. The project will have an M & E system which monitors
adverse impacts on potentially vulnerable sub-groups (female headed households, marginal land holders,
porters) and initiate measures to mitigate such adverse impacts through RAPs.
Child labor: Any negative impact on groups and individuals will be identified and assisted. This includes
protecting against the use of child labour in construction activities. This wvill be closely monitored during
supervision, paying attention to the specific contractual clauses incorporated in the sample bidding
documents.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B
No significant negative impact is expected. (see also Annex 11)
Bhutan is a country seriously committed to protecting and preserving its environment, and has an adequate
legal and institutional framework for sound environmental management. The National Environment
Commission (NEC) has adequate and increasing capacity to manage and monitor, and the environmental
assessment process - which meets IDA requirements - has been approved and made effective by NEC in
February 1999. The overall philosophy of RGOB towards sustainable development and the environment, is
detailed by NEC in the "National Environrnental Strategy, December 1998". In this strategy, the
government has stated in the strongest possible terms that protecting the natural environment, and ensuring
that development activities undertaken in the Kingdom must be done in a sustainable and environmentally
sensitive manner, are key tenets of the RGC13 policy. The RGOB places a high level of importance on
protecting Bhutan's rich natural heritage for future generations. 72% of the country is under forest cover,
with minimal commercial exploitation of the forests. 26% of the country's area is managed as protected
areas so that the country's unique bio-diversity can be preserved.
The proposed project roads are not located in any of the protected areas. The project will introduce,
promote and mainstream environment frienclly (EF) road design and construction methods, including
bio-engineering techniques, to minimize the impacts of rural road construction in environmentally sensitive
areas, such as on steep forested slopes. DOR, the implementing agency, is fully committed to use this
approach. Specialist TA with experience in the EF construction methods has already been mobilized during
project preparation, using the PHRD grant, to provide suitable advice and training to DOR, other
departments concerned, and to contractors and consultants involved in the project. This will be continued
during project implementation
The first 10 km of the Dakpai-Buli road is th.e first road section to be financed by the project; construction
started in November 1998. An adequate EA, cleared by NEC, was prepared in February 1998, but DOR,
lacking the necessary expertise, was not able to implement EF construction in the first 5 km of this section.
Therefore, the Bank will not finance retroactively this 5 km section, but the project will finance the
remedial measures which include (i) mitigatinig measures from the EA and (ii) specialist assistance already
deployed for the redesign and assistance with the implementation of the remedial measures. The specialist
TA provided through PHRD funding, has assisted to improve designs and construction methods, and the
DOR contractor has agreed to follow EF methods for remaining 5 km under his contract. This section
should be eligible for retroactive financing. All other project roads would incorporate EF design
- 20 -



specifications before bidding; DOR staff who have recently received training in EF designs, and specialist
consultants who will assist in future designs and supervision, will help ensure that EF methods are
followed.
A good, comprehensive EA has been prepared for the Lhuentse - Dungkhar road and IDA has received the
final version of EA. IDA had commented on the TOR and the draft EA. This EA will be the model EA for
environmental assessments to be carried out for the remainder of the project roads. RGOB has already
prepared the Environmental Codes of Practice (ECOP) for the road sector in consultation with NEC, which
is acceptable. EA would deal with the more site specific aspects while routine design, construction and
maintenance procedures would follow the ECOP; this has been agreed during credit negotiations. More
details on enviromnental assessment are given in Annex 11.
b. Environmental Category:    B
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating: No major negative impacts are expected. All road sections
financed by the project are/will be subject to a detailed EA in accordance with the requirements and
regulations of RGOB. Any significant negative impacts identified in the EA can be mitigated by the
application of EF design and construction methods. Further to the recommendations of NEC, detailed
ECOP for the road sector are in the process of preparation by DOR and their specialist consultants, and
contract documents will incorporate all necessary specifications and instructions to the contractors. During
contract execution, reporting and supervision procedures and responsibilities will be established - assisted
by the imnplementation support TA - to ensure full compliance with the contract documents. IDA
supervision will review compliance with these procedures by the implementing agency.
d. Status of Category B             EA start-up date:  N/A
assessment:
Date of first EA draft:  February 1998 for Dakpai - Buli road
Current status:  Final EA for second road sub-project
(Lhuentse - Dungkhar road), received
by IDA in September 1999.
e. Status of any other environmental studies: N/A
f. Local groups and NGOs consulted: The affected communities were consulted during village meetings as
part of the EA preparation. Consultations were also held with the executive director of the Royal Society
for the Protection of Nature of Bhutan; he is also responsible for the World Wildlife Fund Program in
Bhutan.
g. Borrower permission to release EA: Permission given by the Borrower.
h. Other remarks:
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
-21 -



a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The proposed project reflects RGOB's usual practice to closely involve communities in planning,
implementation and management of all development projects. The identification of roads has been preceded
by a decentralized planning exercise involving committees at gewog (block) and dzongkhag (district) levels.
The Social and Environmental assessments served usefully to inform the communities about the project and
its implications (favorable and adverse) and elicit their views on mitigation measures, suggestions and roles
they could play. In the Dakpai-Buli road, the local community has also been engaged in road construction
during agricultural off-season. In all future roads to be constructed, it is important to maximize the
participation of local community in construction and maintenance activities.
Findings from the social assessment indicate the scope for continued involvement of user communities in
the maintenance of these roads. Involvement of users in road maintenance is considered as a key to
sustainability. Hence the project visualizes a pilot arrangement at Dakpai - Buli area for involving road
users and local communities. Technical Assistance (TA) for the associated institutional development and
capacity building activities would be provided by the project for this pilot exercise. During mid-term
review, lessons learnt from the pilot effort would be analyzed, concept further fine tuned and a policy
developed for road users and local commun.ities. This policy would become applicable for other project
roads and future rural roads.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Transport Operators, farmers, traders and other road users.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability relates to the sustainability of improved rural access, environmentally friendly
technologies and institutional capacity developed under the project. By focusing on maintenance and
rehabilitation, the project will bring some district roads to a maintainable condition, so that the districts can
execute planned maintenance in accordance with the dzongkhag plans and to better use limited resources.
The environmentally friendly techniques and community participation to be promoted under the project will
help facilitate local participation by project beneficiaries in project implementation and subsequent
maintenance, and minimize environmental impact.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions iinl the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                      i  Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government to follow and mainstream      M         Environmental Code of Practice
environmentally friendly methods of                (ECOP) adopted, close monitoring and
road construction and maintenance:                 evaluation of contract clauses and
Risk level M (modest)                              Environment Managament Plan.
From Components to Outputs
Carrying out project components          M         Attention to improving procurement
expeditiously: Risk level M (modest).              capabilities in DOR.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 22 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Standard conditions;
(b) Execution of an agreement with the Government of the Netherlands regarding cofmancing of this
project and fulfillment of all conditions precedent to its effectiveness.
(c) Completion of actions set forth in the Financial Management Systems action plan with due dates that
precede the effectiveness date.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, in addition to standard covenants, agreement was reached with Borrower on the
following aspects:
(a) Maintaining a Project Cell headed by a Project Manager, assisted by an Assistant Project Manager, 2
Section Officers in the DOR head office, an Environmental Engineer, a Procurement Officer, a Finance
Officer, a Project Accountant, a Site Engineer in each Project District, and 2 Section Officers in each
Project District. Each Site Engineer will be assisted by 2 Section Officers. During implementation the
Project Cell staff will include, on a permanent basis, an Environmental Engineer, Finance Officer and a
designated Procurenet Officer;
(b) Appointment of a team of Technical Assistance and Training Experts (Consultants) for the Institutional
Strengthening and Training Assistance program and for assisting in project implementation by March 31,
2000;
(c) Complete appointment of staff for project and financial management by March 31, 2000;
(d) Initiate before December 31, 2000, a pilot program for maintenance of project roads with participation
of local users and communities, and prepare a report on its effectiveness and further expansion of coverage
by December 31, 2002;
(e) Borrower shall, during project implementation, study ways of improving the efficiency of present road
maintenance systems, complete such review by mid-term review, initiate actions for further enhancing
efficacy of the current maintenance systems; such review shall include, among other things, adequate
funding for maintenance, and the use of local community involvement in maintenance;
(f) Borrower will follow socio-economic criteria agreed with IDA in the selection of roads under the
project, in combination with the participatory processes currently followed;
(g) Appoint independent social assessment consultants by April 2000 for preparation and monitoring of
Resettlement Action Plans for each project road consistent with the Policy Framework for Resettlement and
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons of the Borrower dated September 1999;
(h) Appoint independent social assessment consultants by June 2003 for an evaluation of adverse impacts,
if any, due to resettlement;
- 23 -



(i) Borrower will complete final ECOP by April 2000;
(j) Borrower will ensure that environmental requirements are incorporated in the contract documents, and
implement environmentally friendly road mnethods of road construction and related bio-engineering for
roads included in the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(k) Borrower will produce quarterly reports on implementation and performance indicators, and state future
action plans for each component of the Project, which will be reviewed by the Association;
(I) By March 31, 2002, Borrower will conduct with IDA a mid-term review of project implementation. The
Borrower will prepare a comprehensive assessment of the project implementation and make it available 2
months in advance of the mid-term review.
H. Readiness for Implementatioir
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
.. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicalble Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Thampil Pankaj                   Frannie A. Leautier               John W. Wall
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Key Perforance
YH   why of ObJecves              Indicator          Monitoring & Eypluation    Crl#ca A",umptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To improve access to basic    Full government support to   5-yr Development Plan.  Infrastructure constraints
infrastructure where       the Development Plan                                 removed to support poverty
economically justified and                           Economic and sector reports.  alleviation in the Project
strengthen institutional   Accelerated economic growth,                         districts
capacity in the Dzonkhags    better access to health and
education services where road                        Complementary investments
infrastructure adequately                            take place to support
maintained.                                          infrastructure developments
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To achieve sustainable     1. Significant improvements  1. Road maintenance      Generalized Government
maintenance and            in maintenance of the feeder  expenditures; road condition  support for institutional
rehabilitation of feeder roads, roads in the Project districts.  surveys.        strengthening
and construct economically   2. New feeder road       2. Comparison of feasibility
justifiable feeder roads, subject construction focused on  and completion reports;  Planning and programming of
to the adoption of         economically and socially    3. Progress reports;    resources governed by the
environmentally sustainable  justified feeder roads in  4. Project and other internal  Development Plan
construction and maintenance selected Dzonkhags.     instructions.
practices.                 3. Adoption of
environmentally sustainable
construction and maintenance
practices
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Improved access in selected 1.1 Selection of road links    1.1 Plan framework  Improved strategic road sector
districts using appropriate    based on Development Plan;                       planning
design and technology (where 1.2 Detailed economic,   1.2 Feasibility reports for the
economically justified).   technical, social, and    road links
environmental feasibility
studies carried out and
followed.
2. Improved access, reduced  2.1 Average travel time  2.1 Comparison of feasibility Environmentally sustainable
transport costs and reduced   reductions, transport cost  and completion reports  road construction and
delays as a result of improved reductions and school                             maintenance practices utilized
maintenance systems.       enrolment levels achieved as                          for all road sector activities
per appraisal estimates by
project completion.
-25 -



3. Improved efficiency and   3.1 Improved contracting and 3.1-3.2 Periodic review of    Continued donor coordination
effectiveness in public sector  accountability procedures  progress reports and  and support in the road sector.
management of road         implemented in tha, selected   evaluation reports, and annual
investments.               Dzonkhags.                review of road sector
3.2 Standardization of    expenditures and allocations.
environmentally s-ound,
low-cost dry-weat:her designs
for hill roads.
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget 1For each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Feeder Road construction    U$ 12.5 m                 Quarterly, and other project  Govt. would strengthen
progress reports          project design,
implementation and road
maintenance capability in the
DOR ( at the centre and in the
District administrations.
Sufficient and timely
counterpart funding is
available
Office and Transport      U$ 0.3 m                    Quarterly, and other project  Procurement actions are
Equipment                                             progress reports          streamlined and timely
Project Management         U$1.5 m                    Quarterly, and other project  Adequate staff continuity
Assistance and Training                               progress reports           within DOR
Institutional Strengthening &  U$ 0.6 m               Quarterly, and other project  Adequate staff continuity
Studies                                              progress reports           within DOR
- 26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$12.60 million
A. Civil Works - Construction of New Priority Feeder Roads including site preparation, earthworks,
drainage construction and monitoring for the following roads (subject to change):
(i) A 37 km of rehabilitation and development of feeder road in Zhemgang dzongkhag, linking Dakpai -
Buli villages (US$3.70 million): to be designed as a model for environmentally friendly road
construction in Bhutan;
(ii) A 37 km of rehabilitation and development of feeder road in Lhuentse dzongkhag to link Lhuentse
and Dungkhar villages (US$4.24 million);
(iii) About 20 km of rehabilitation and development of feeder roads in the Trashi Yangtse dzongkhag to
link Gomkora-Tomzhantsen, Tsengkharla-Kheni and Bartsham-Ramjar villages (US$1.83 million);
(iv) About 28 km of additional feeder road rehabilitation or development (US$2.65 million) to be
selected based on economic, social and environmental criteria to be agreed. The tentative list provided
includes: Bartsham-Bidung Phongmey School (10 km), Thrimshing Dungkhag Office-Tshangpo School
(3 kmn), Mukuzor-Tshangpo School (5 km) and Pangthang-Yechhen BHU (2 kin), all in Trashigang
dzongkhag, and Feeder road to Gomphu village (8 km) in Zhemgang dzongkhag.
Project Component 2 - US$0.30 million
B. Office and Transport Equipment for DOR - This component will provide DOR with necessary
equipment, computers and accessories, survey equipment and vehicles for inmmediate project
implementation and supervision support and in the long run to strengthen the technical and institutional
capacity of DOR.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.00 million
C. Technical Assistance - This component will include:
Project Management Assistance and Training (US$1.47 million): This sub-component will consist of two
phases of each 30 months. The first phase will be funded by the Government of Netherlands and executed
by SNV. The second phase may also be funded by the Government of Netherlands, but since the decision
will only be taken during project execution, an estimated amount is budgeted to be funded under the
project.
Environmental and Social Assessment Studies (US$ 73,000): This sub-component will include EIA studies
and social assessment studies that are required to be undertaken for all new roads to be constructed under
the project.
Support for FMS and Monitoring in DOR (US$54, 000): This sub-component concerns the introduction of
LACI type format and includes the services of experts and related hardware and software.
- 27 -



Feeder Maintenance Planning (US$58, 000): This sub-component includes the services of international
and local experts to assist DOR with maintenance planning of feeder roads, including prioritization,
efficiency improvements and introduction of community participation.
Socio-Economic Evaluation of Completed Roads (US$23, 000): This sub-component will be executed
towards the end of the project implementation and will study the socio-economic impact of completed
roads, mainly Dakpai-Buli Road which will be completed first.
Pre-investment Studies for a Follow-up Project (US$336, 000): This sub-component will include studies
required for the preparation of a follow-up project.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Bhutan
Rural Access Project                                                         (USS '000)
Components Project Cost Summary                                                             %      % Total
Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total    Exchanae  Costs
1. Construction of Feeder Roads                        3,531.0    6,867.0    10,397.9       66       83
2. Project Management Assistance and Training           406.8      1,001.0     1,407.8      71       11
3. Institutional Strengthening & Studies                146.7       344.7       491.4        70        4
4. Office and Transport Equipment                           -       219.7       219.7       100       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     4,084.5     8,432.4    12,516.9       67      100
Physical Contingencies                                  550.4      1,102.3     1,652.8      67       13
Price Contingencies                                     151.8       538.6       690.5       78        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      4,786.7    10,073.4    14,860.1       68      119
- 29 -



RiS /cess  tiet                                                          Project
Eex     peJAccouris by Cor aonens BE-se Cost and Toal Costs            Mangmt                     OCffice
(Li$ 0)                                                    Constuction  Assistance  InsMtibouia    and                   Physical
of Feeder     and    Stinghening  Tarnspoet               Corinoenides
Roads     Trairina    &SWIes   Eqxiert   Tola            %      Arn'xt
1. lrwestInirt costs
A. Civil VV\rk
D*Dai-Edi Road (37 kn                                       3,136.7         -             -         -    3,136.7    15.0    470.5
LItse-Dlhkr Roa (37 krrj                                    3,532.1         -             -         -    3,532.1    15.0    529.8
Trashi Yagtse Pnads (201cTI                                 1,507.0         -             -         -    1,507.0    15.0    226.1
ier Feeder Rbas (28 krr                                     2,119.3         -             -         -    2,119.3    15.0     317.9
R&R Mxrtoring aid lIrerenr3fion                               1029         -             -         -      102.9    15.0      15.4
SLbt*al Civil WU                                             10,397.9         -             -         -    10,397.9    15.0   1,559.7
E Office and Tranport EqLipTrat
Mkhides                                                          -          -             -      81.8       81.8    15.0      12.3
Of leand Tranng EupTentand OperEting costs                       -                        -      304        30.4    15.0       4.6
Mktcrcyes 1-                                                                -             -      16.4       16.4    15.0       2.5
Sivey Sets and LfrAoy EquiprTnt                                  -          -             -      91.2       91.2    15.0      13.7
                Skitotal Office and Transport Eq'ipinet                             -         -             -     219.7      219.7    15.0       33.0
C TechniIcal Assistance
Prqect NKee      ssstaice and Traring Pta  1                     -    1,OCO.0             -         -    1,OCO.O       -         -
Prqe tViagentertAssistanceaidTraning Pse2                        -      407.8             -         -      407.8     5.0      20.4
ErMrita   ialAssesstSucies                                       -          -          67.0         -       67.0     5.0       3.3
auport for FIVE aid Mbontoning in DOR                            -          -          50.5         -       50.5     5.0       2.5
Feedcer Pad Niteare Famring                                      -          -          50.5                 50.5     5.0       2.5
S5io Eoorioc EBauation of Corrpieted Rads                        -          -          20.4         -       20.4     5.0       1.0
Pre-inesnitSudesfcrFdolLp Prqect                                 -          -         303.0         -      303.0    10.0      30.3
S&dtotal Technical Assistance                                      -    1,407.8         491.4         -    1,899.2     3.2      60.1
Total Inve*sbet Costs                                          10,397.9    1,407.8        491.4     219.7   12,516.9    13.2   1,652.8
II. Rcu    Costs
Tdtal BASELNE COSTS                                             10,397.9    1,407.8       491.4     219.7   12,516.9    13.2   1,652.8
Physical Gotigendies                                          1,559.7      20.4          39.7      33.0    1,652.8       -         -
Price Cortirgencies                                             597.3      40.8          43.2       9.2      690.5    12.2      84.5
Totdal PROJECTCOSTS                                             12,554.9    1,468.9       5744      261.9   14,860.1    11.7   1,737.3
Taes                                                            816.1      16.4          20.1         -      852.6    12.8     108.7
Foreign Ehrnge                                                8,367.1    1,035.2        409.3     261.9   10,073.4    11.6   1,168.9



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A.    GeneralApproach
1.    A cost benefit analysis of the project investments has been carried out l/; its main assumptions and
findings are summarized below. Since gathering socio-economic data for each project rural road for
purposes of estimating its economic rate of return (ERR) is difficult and expensive, and since these are
low-volume roads (vehicles per day below 30), the following methodology has been used: for one typical
project road (such as the 37 km. Dakpai-Buli road which has the advantage of considerable area-specific
socio-economic data collected and analyzed by the Netherlands funding agency NEDA under their
integrated development project for the district), its ERR was estimated in detail based on quantification of
social and economic benefits. (Please see discussion of Bhutan's rural access constraints and related data
under Section 2 of the main text in the PAD). Based on this sample exercise, socio-economic norms and
criteria were developed to test the viability of all other project roads.
B.    Cost Benefit Analysis of Dakpai-Buli Road
Project Benefits
2.     The project roads will provide many types of benefits: (a) It will improve access to social
infrastructure (schools and health centers) providing many benefits from increased education and health
facilities, and improved social interaction and mobility, which are important for social, and economic
development. (b) It will provide better access to markets, by reducing transport costs, and also by making
it physically feasible for the first time to transport certain types of goods (such as construction materials),
since the existing mode of mule transport or porterage cannot handle such items which are important for
many economic activities (house building, school building, small hydro-electric projects, etc.) and for
general economic development. (c) It will improve marketability of perishable goods through timely and
cheaper transport, and this will provide a direct incentive for more market-oriented agriculture, with more
profitable cash crops, and also raise rural income and employment. (d) Lastly, it will help sustain isolated
rural communities spread over the difficult mountain slopes of the country (where 85% of Bhutan's
population live and where 36% of the country's national income is produced) to remain accessible to the
country's mainstream economy, and prevent their migration to urban areas which do not have the capacity
to absorb them. Indeed, the project impact in all these benefit-categories will be limited primarily to the
project areas.
1/ For detailed data and analysis, please see "Rural Access Roads: Details of Socio-Economic Analysis" in
Project Files
- 31 -



3.     In what follows, an attempt is made to quantify some of the project benefits described above: from
(a) social benefits, (b) transport cost savings, and (c) agricultural benefits. Benefits from (d), and other
benefits such as industrial and regional development, will be difficult to quantify and therefore no attempt
is made to assess these impacts. Even where quantification has been made, the limitations of data make it a
partial assessment, thus resulting in a conservative estimates of project economic return. The analysis
focuses on one project road, the Dakpai-Buli road, as discussed in para. I above.
4.    Social benefits: A novel feature of the analysis is quantification of part of the social benefits (in
addition to transport cost savings); we have made rough estimates of the value of better access to education
which the road will provide, using Bhutanese data on enrollment levels with improved road access, and
income levels of educated and uneducated persons. Improved road access (removing the present constraint
of about 2 days' walking) will allow easy transport of children to schools, or schools may get located closer
to the communities, leading to higher school enrollment levels, and improvement in the quality of schools.
RGOB already plans on building new Elementary and Junior High Schools after some of these roads are
constructed; at present the physical constraints in transport make school construction extremely difficult.
Our preliminary estimates, based on higher enrollment rates in the more accessible areas in the same
district, indicate that about 75-100 children, (over years) would additionally go to schools every year if the
road is built (more girls because of proximity, and more boys who would be released from the task of
transporting goods); the life-time earnings of the educated vs. uneducated provides an estimate of the
income differentials; the net incremental income has been estimated after deducting estimated education and
continuing education costs: this is attributable as net value added by the road since the additional
enrollment would not have happened without the improved access provided by the road. Indeed education
(especially education of girls) brings many more social benefits than income benefits, but we limited our
estimate to incremental income from education. We have also estimated some health benefits (in reduced
sick days, and reduced maternity and other deaths) attributable to improved access to health facilities,
based on available local data. Overall, about 30% of the project benefits come from quantifiable social
benefits (estimated through a partial exercise).
5.     Transport cost savings: Basic traffic data has been estimated from traffic surveys in the project
area (particularly existing mule traffic, and house-hold consumption patterns) conducted by local
consultants, as well as data on actual traffic growth in another similar area of the district where a feeder
road was completed about 5 years ago. The current traffic level in goods (all traffic that is likely to shift to
the road, currently moved as mule traffic cr porterage) is about 10 tons per day, which is small. However,
with the road and the physical possibility of moving many items which are difficult to transport on mules
(such as several items for house -construction and school buildings, small equipment for household and
other use, and more consumption goods, and forest produce and handicraft items from the project area),
traffic will increase after the road is built. The estimnates assume a traffic growth from about 10 vehicles
per day (3 trucks, 2 buses and 5 light vehicles/pickups) in the opening year (2002) to about 22 vehicles per
day in the 5th year, which is supported by traffic demand growth in the area, and the growth pattern
observed after road development in a similar area in the district. These are indeed modest assumptions.
The unit cost savings will however be significant since the alternative cost of mule transport is very high,
about US $3.0 equivalent per ton-km (as per field surveys and mule tariff established by RGOB), as
against possible trucking cost of about $0.4 per ton-km (assumed high in this terrain).
6.     The transport benefits have been calculated for the following four major categories: (i) transport
savings on the normal growth of non-agricultural goods traffic assuming traffic levels without the road
project (agricultural traffic is excluded since the benefits from transporting agricultural goods will be
indirectly included in the estimate of incremental agricultural income); (ii) transport savings on the induced
non-agricultural goods traffic (additional non agricultural traffic induced by the availability of the road);
- 32 -



(iii) transport savings on the normal growth of passenger traffic (persons traveling in the without road
assumption); (iv) transport savings on the induced passenger traffic .
7.     For normal growth in existing traffic, the full reduction in costs is counted as project benefits; for
induced traffic, only 50% of net benefits is counted as project benefits. Road transport benefits are
assumed frozen at the level reached in 27th year since the road will reach saturation level of traffic at that
time; the 27th year level of benefits is continued for the full road life of 40 years.
8.     Agricultural benefits: As regards the agricultural benefits induced by the road, the estimate is
based on a detailed analysis of the present cropping patterns in the area and the likely switch in cropping
patterns to more profitable cash crops which will be induced by easier access and transportability to
markets. A farm model with local production and cost coefficients has been used for this estimate. It
estimates the net value added in agricultural production due to reduced transport costs of farm inputs and
output, and increased switch-over to cash crops (such as oranges, chilies, other vegetables), based on
similar experiences in Bhutan. It has been verified that apart from marginal increase in extension services
and the use of more fertilizers and improved seeds, no significant agricultural investments in land
improvements would be required to adapt to the expected switch towards marketable crops. The net
incremental benefits from agriculture (after meeting all additional costs of farming and transport) have been
taken as benefits brought about by the road, since the absence of a road is the main bottleneck in producing
more market-oriented crops in this area.
Project Costs
9.     The construction of a road and its maintenance requires major initial investments, followed by
subsequent smaller routine and periodic maintenance costs. The Dakpai-Buli road is being built from year
I (1999) to year 3 (2001); the first year of full road use is taken as year 4 (2002), ignoring interim benefits
from partial use of completed road sections. The stream of benefits and costs has been calculated for a 40
year period, (year 2002 to year 2041). This is justified since a well- designed mountain road with low
traffic will last much more than 40 years if routine maintenance is done every year, and if periodically
major repair works are undertaken. Adequate routine maintenance and a four-year cycle of periodic
maintenance has been assumed in the cost stream to ensure a long life for the road. Moreover, Bhutan has
a good past record on road maintenance, and community involvement in road maintenance is increasing, all
of which will help sustain the road over a long life. For converting financial costs into economic costs,
foreign components (mainly in construction costs) have been converted using c.i.f. ( import) prices without
adjustments; all other local costs and benefits have been converted into economic (border) prices using a
factor of 0.9.
- 33 -



C.    Overview of Results
10.    The following summarizes the ressults of ERR analysis:
Net present value (NPV) of economic cost benefit streams (at 12% discount rate), (in US$ 000):
Cost of road investment and maintenance          3817
Total Benefit attributable to the road                  6244
Transport benefits (non-agricultural traffic)           3476
Net agricultural benefits                                956
Net education benefits                                  1699
Net health benefits                                       113
ERR (base case)                                         15.1%
Main Assumptions:
11.    The main assumptions relate to higher school enrolment levels after road construction; traffic
growth and transport savings; agricultural benefits; project life, and maintenance costs. These are
described in paragraphs 2 through 9 above.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
12.    Varying the economic cost and benefit streams of the base case produces the following sensitivity
table:
Variations in Cost stream                 Variations in Benefit stream  -
8(%              100%             120%
80%                ERR 15.1%         ERR 16.9%          ERR 18.5%
100%                ERR 13.6%        ERR 15.1%           ERR 16.5%
120%                ERR 12.5%        ERR 13.9%            ERR 15.1%
Varying the economic cost and benefit streams produces the following switching values (at 10% and at
12%) for the ERR.
Variations in Cost stream                 Variations in Benefit stream
42%,/o           61% _      1_   100%
100%                ERR ] 0.0%       ERR 12.0%         ERR 15.1%
162%                                                   ERR 12.0%
237%                                                   ERR 10.0%
The above figures show that the ERR estimates are robust, under varying pessimistic assumptions.
- 34 -



13.   Assumption regarding Life of the Road. A separate sensitivity analysis was done with regard to
the life of the road. The Base case ERR is based on 40 years life of the road, which is a realistic
assumption, because this is a well designed mountainous road with low traffic, which should have even
longer life; moreover, adequate maintenance allocation has been made in the analysis. Bhutan has a good
past record of satisfactory road maintenance, and local user community involvement in road maintenance is
part of the project design and understanding with RGOB.
For life assumption of 30 years and 20 years, the base case ERR will decline to 12.9% and 19.1%
respectively. As noted above, these reduced life assumptions are not realistic. The results however
highlight the need for good maintenance policies and practices to ensure viability of such road investments.
Applying the Dakpai-Buli Road ERR analysis to the total Project:
14.    We consider Dakpai-Buli as typical of other project roads. We have seen from the above analysis
that this road (37 km costing about US$3.6 million with about 8000 direct beneficiaries) produces an ERR
of above 15%. This amounts to a per capita cost of about US$450 in terms of project cost per beneficiary.
Based on this, the per capita investment corresponding to 12% ERR will be about US$560 equivalent. In
other words, based on the Dakpai-Buli road impact analysis, a per capita investment per beneficiary of
US$560 (in 1999 prices) is considered viable at 12% ERR. In view of the difficulty of repeating such
detailed studies for all the project roads, and since the access problems and economic conditions are similar
in the service areas of other project roads, we apply the norm of a maximum per capita (per beneficiary)
cost of US$560 as an acceptable threshold for economic viability. These criteria will need to be satisfied
for all project roads. Our preliminary analysis for the other project roads shows that the per-capita
investment for the remaining project roads will be less than US$450, indicating a higher than 15% ERR,
based on the norm of Dakpai-Buli road findings. This indicates that the overall Project ERR would exceed
15%. estimated for the Dakpai-Buli Road. More details are given in the Project Files.
Road Selection Criteria for Project Roads:
15.   Based on the above analysis, the following criteria have been agreed with RGOB for the selection
of new roads under the project:
(i)    The project roads have to be part of the list of feeder roads included as priority roads in the
ongoing Eighth Five Year Plan. These road priorities have been decided on the basis of extensive
participatory discussions involving local communities, district administrations, the Planning Commission
and sector Ministries, and His Majesty the King, who visited all districts for discussion on plan priorities
with the local communities. They reflect a participatory, socio-economic prioritization process, based on
national economic and regional development objectives;
- 35 -



(ii)    Based on the economic return calculations made for the Dakpai-Buli Road, a per capita
investment per beneficiary of US$560 (in 99 prices) is considered viable at 12% ERR ( see para 13
above). All project roads should satisfy this criteria, in the sense that the investment per beneficiary should
not exceed US$560 (1999 prices) per direct beneficiary. The direct beneficiaries are to be estimated using
population of directly benefiting villages (defined as villages without one day's walking distance from/to
project road); it can be increased by about 10% to include other beneficiaries who would directly benefit
from trade with or visits to the newly accessible areas. (This was the procedure followed for the
Dakpai-Buli Road). The road construction costs are to be calculated in 1999 prices, including 15%
physical contingency;
(iii)   In exceptional cases, a norm of US $650 per beneficiary (corresponding to 10% ERR) could be
used since a minimum ERR of 10% should be acceptable for such project investments, in view of their
many social and economic benefits which hlave not been quantified (such as keeping the rural population
from migrating away from rural farms to towns);
(iv)   If the above general criteria are not met for a road, then it can be included in the project only after
making a detailed analysis of the economic and social benefits from the road investments, acceptable to
IDA. A minimum ERR of 10% would be acceptable;
(v)    If the above criteria are not met, such road investments are not viable; lesser-cost alternatives such
as improved mule-trails or paths should be considered in such cases (such investments are not funded under
the proposed project);
(vi)   For the identified project roads (94 km), and for the tentative list of 28 km of proposed roads,
preliminary analysis indicates that the above ERR criteria under (ii) has been met. For any other roads to
be included in the project, further analysis should be provided by DOR;
(vii)   Before awarding contracts for any project road, DOR should provide to IDA evidence of
acceptable ERR for the total road (if it is not in the presently agreed list), the EA for the road section to be
contracted, and the Resettlement Action Plan, as agreed for the project.
- 36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Bhutan
Rural Access Project
Components by Financiers                     Royal Government
(US$ '000)                                       of Bhutan               IDA              NEDAISNV               Total
Amount      %       Amount       %      Amount       %      Amount        %
1. Construction of Feeder Roads             2,320.1     18.5    10,234.8    81.5 (1)               -    12,554.9    84.5
2. Project Management Assistance and Training   0.0        -       468.9    31.9    1,000.0    68.1       1,468.9     9.9
3. Institutional Strengthening & Studies        0.0        -       574.4   100.0           -       -       574.4      3.9
4. Office and Transport Equipment                 -        -       261.9   100.0          -        -       261.9       1.8
Total Disbursement                             2,320.1    15.6    11,539.9    77.7    1,000.0       6.7    14,860.1    100.0
(1) This includes first 0.0 - 4.5 km of Dakpai - Buli road ongoing contract, which w ill not
Excluding this, IDA funding for civil w orks w ill be 85%.
- 37 -



Bhutan
Rural Access Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers                                                                            Local
(US$ '000)                                                         IDA                Total                   (Exci.   Duties &
Amount      %      Amount      %      For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Dakpai-Buli Road (37 kin)                                 2,718.5    73.4    3,705.1    24.9    2,233.4   1,230.9    240.8
Lhuntse-Dhungkar Road (37 krrj                            3,605.8    85.0    4,242.2    28.5    2,965.6   1,000.8    275.7
Trashi Yangtse Roads (20km)                               1,557.0    85.0     1,831.8    12.3    1,281.1    431.7    119.1
Other Feeder Roads (28 kn)                                2,256.2    85.0    2,654.4    17.9    1,862.9     619.0    1725
R&R Monitoring and Inrplementation                          97.1    80.0       121.4     0.8       24.1      89.4      7.9
Subtotal Civil Works                                       10,234.8    81.5    12,554.9    84.5    8,367.1   3,371.8    816.1
B. OfFice and Transport Equipment
khicles                                                     1700 40.,           97 57              97.5         -        -
OfFice and Training Equipmernt and Operating Costs          36.2   100.0        36.2     0.2       36.2         -
Mdtorcydes                                                  19.5   100.0        19.5     0.1       19.5         -        -
Survey Sets and Laboratoy Equipment                        108.6   100.0       108.6     0.7      108.6         -
Subtotal Office and Transport Equiprnent                     261.9   100.0       261.9     1.8      261.9         -
C. Technical Assistance
Project Managenrent Assistance and Training Phase 1            -       -     1,000.0     6.7      800.0     200.0
Project ManagementAssistance and Training Phase 2          468.9   100.0       468.9     3.2      235.2     217.3     16.4
Environmental and Social Assessment Studies                 72.7   100.0        72.7     0.5       14.5      55.7      2.5
Support for Fin. Mgt. and Nonitoring in DOR                 54.3   100.0        54.3     0.4       43.3       9.0      1.9
Feeder Road Maintenance Planning and Support                57.6   100.0        57.6     0.4       46.1       9.5      2.0
Socio Econonic Evaluation of Corrpleted Roads               23.7   100.0        23.7     0.2       11.9      11.0      0.8
Pre-investment Studies for Folkw-up Project                366.0   100.0       366.0     2.5      293.4      59.8     12.8
Subtotal Technical Assistance                               1.043.3    51.1    2,0433     13.8    1,444.4     562.4     36.5
Total Investment Costs                                       11,539.9    77.7    14,860.1   100.0   10,073.4   3,934.1    852.6
II. Recurrent Costs
Total Disbursement                                           11,539.9    77.7    14,860.1   100.0   10,073.4   3,934.1    852.6



Bhutan: Rural Access Proiect
Financial Management Arrangements
Flow of Funds
The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) would pass on the budgeted funds for capital
expenditure to each ministry through the Letter of Credit (LC) system in accordance with the normal
formula in which assistance is passed on to various ministries and districts. Similarly, funds will be passed
on to the Ministry of Communication (MOC) through a specially designated Bank LC account maintained
exclusively for routing the project expenditures. The implementing units (IUs) which are the regional
offices of the Division of Roads (DOR) in the Dzongkhags, will prepare their budgets for each fiscal year
based on the proposed project activities. The actual disbursement of funds from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) would take place, on a case by case basis, upon requisition submitted by the lUs supported by
relevant documentation. In order to ensure project coordination and accounts consolidation, all lUs would
route their requisitions for funds through the Project Cell in DOR's Head Office in Thimphu and the
Administration and Finance Division (AFD) at the MOC in Thimphu. MOC will be the main channel
through which funds will flow to the lUs at the dzongkhags. As and when the lUs submit their requisitions
for funds to AFD at MOC through the Project Cell, the same will be forwarded to MOF for approval and
release. The MOF will issue a release letter to the designated Bank which will facilitate the IU to withdraw
the funds from the LC account. The AFD at MOC will provide monthly consolidated figures of project
expenditure to MOF which would draw the eligible funds from the Special Account (to which World Bank
Credit proceeds are transferred in US dollars) to reimburse itself. As and when the project switches to
disbursements based on Project Management Reports (PMR), the funds will be disbursed on the basis of
quarterly PMRs submitted by the Project Cell to IDA. It has been agreed with MOC and MOF that
PMR-based disbursements will be adopted not later than July 1, 2001.
Accounting and Internal Controls
Books of accounts for the project would be maintained as per the RGOB rules prescribed in the
Financial Manual, 1988. A separate cash book and general ledger will be maintained at each IU for project
related transactions which will be routed through a unique Bank Account LC number. Accounting of
project expenditures will be capable of capturing data by RGOB budget heads, project components,
sub-components, expenditure categories (summnary and detailed), and disbursement categories (as per Legal
Agreements). This would match closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of funds
indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project Cost Tables in the Project
Appraisal Document). Simplified PMRs (Forms 1-A, 1-B, 2-A and 2-B as per format agreed with IDA
during project negotiations) would be generatedfrom the project accounts and submitted to IDA
within 45 days of the end of each quarter for IDA Is review. As and when the project graduates to
PMR-based disbursements, the Project Cell would arrange to submit all the PMRs (as per format agreed
during the negotiation) and the disbursements will be based on these quarterly PMRs. Consolidation of
accounts of each project would be done by the Project Cell and AFD at MOC. The Chart of Accounts
would ensure that data is captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting for the project to various
stakeholders.
Financial Reporting
All lUs would submit their consolidated monthly statement of accounts to the Project Cell, AFD at
MOC and National Budget and Aid Coordination (NBACD) in the format prescribed in the RGOB
- 39 -



Financial Manual. Apart from this, the AFD at MOC supported by the designated Senior Finance Officer
(SFO) and the project accounting staff would be responsible for consolidating the project accounts and
preparing quarterly PMRs as per format agreed with the World Bank.
Auditing Arrangements
The Accounts of the Project will be audited every year by the Royal Audit Authority (RAA) as per
RGOB rules. However, the RAA will have the option to contract out annual audit to external auditors
(who should be qualified chartered accountants acceptable to IDA). When the audit is contracted out to
external auditors, the audit fees for the same shall be eligible for reimbursement from the IDA Credit. The
Project Cell would ensure that the accounts are finalized and the project financial statements are
submitted to the auditors within 3 months of the close ofRGOB 's fiscal year. The annual project
financial statements audited by the RAA'external auditors would be submitted to IDA within 6 months
of the close of RGOB'sfiscalyear (as reqluired under World Bank's operationalpolicies). Any
accounting firm(s), or any of its associates providing accounting or other consultancy services for this
project would not be eligible to be the auditor for the project, to avoid conflict of interest.
Staffine for Financial Management
Key Professional Staff: The most important requirement for effective financial management of the project
is appointment of qualified and appropriate staff at key levels. The National Finance Services (NFS) in
the MOF would ensure that a Senior Finance Officer (SFO) is designated to oversee the two new
projects in the MOC before April 30, 2000. The SFO would be responsible for: (a) all aspects of project
financial management; (b) guiding and assisting the Chief Accountants in consolidation of project accounts
at the national level; (c) coordinating preparation of the PMRs to the World Bank and other stakeholders;
and (d) financial planning and management of the project including financial forecasting. If considered
necessary during implementation, appropriate external consultant(s) would be hired to provide professional
accounting support at various levels. The SFO would be located in AFD in MOC under the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) and would also work closely with the Project Directors of the Project Cells. Apart
from providing support on financial, accounting, and reporting aspects of the project, the SFO would also
interact with various field offices, RAA ancd1or the external auditors, as necessary.
Supporting Staff: NFS will ensure that the implementing units would have ssifficient number of
finance staff to carry out various routine activities. The designated accounting staff (Assistant Finance
Officer, Senior Accountant) at AFD in MOC would be given appropriate training in World Bank
disbursement procedures.
Computerized Accountina and Manaaement Information System
NBACD will review the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) being developed for
the Second Education Project (SEP) in Bhutan and other software products available in the market to find
out whether the system meets the reporting requirements of RGOB and the World Bank for PMR-based
disbursements. The World Bank has provided information on other vendors who have developed similar
software for other Bank projects. After reviewing the available products, NBA CD would
adopt/modify/develop a software most suited to Bhutan 's needs by June 30, 2000.
-40 -



FMS Development Action Plan
(i) Before April 30, 2000, NFS would designate a special SFO to oversee the proposed two new
projects with responsibilities as described above.
(ii) NBACD and Finance Division of MOC would review the FMIS developed for the SEP as well as
other products available/emerging in the market, and decide on the software to be used for this
project by June 30, 2000.
(iii) MOC and MOF would take appropriate steps to switch to PMR-based disbursements by July 1,
2001.
-41 -



Annex 6: Procureimnent and Disbursement Arrangements
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Procurement
Bank financed works, goods and services uinder the project will be procured in accordance with the
provisions of the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ", published in January
1995 and revised in August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. RGOB will seek IDA clearance to
the use of standard bidding documents (SBD) currently being prepared for all sectors. Procurement of
consultants will be according to the provisions of the "Guidelines - Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers ", published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works: Civil works for about 15 contract packages, amounting to some US$8 million, will be
procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures in view of the small value of
contracts scattered geographically over the four dzongkhags (districts) and spread over time. Contract
package sizes will range from US$0.2 million to $3.5 million. Foreign firms may not find the contracts
attractive in view of the very nature of works and the physical difficulties in accessing the country, but if
they wish to participate in NCB contracts, they shall be allowed to do so. Most of the contract packages
will be awarded between 1999 and 2002. Strict post-qualification criteria will be incorporated in the
bidding documents for each contract to ensure selection of qualified contractors for implementation of
works. Invitation for Bids will be advertised nationally and international community notified through
embassies at Thimphu. Contract awards will be determined by an Inter-Ministerial Tender Board as per
current RGOB procedures.
Minor works costing less than US$25,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US 1.2 million for slope
stability and bio-engineering works will be procured under lump sum fixed price contracts, awarded on the
basis of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified local contractors or user groups in response
to a written invitation, direct contracting or :force account.
Goods: The proposed project will finance less than US$260,000 for the purchase of vehicles, office
equipment and survey equipment. Contracts for procurement of equipment estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of shopping procedures or direct contracting with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three suppliers up to an aggregate limit of US$260,000.
Technical Assistance (TA): The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) will be used for all
contracts. Under this project, quality and cost-based selection (QCBS) method will be followed for the
selection of consultants for the preparation of a Follow-up project, estimated to cost US$300,000
equivalent. TA contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 will be procured using QCBS
procedures, but the short list may comprise entirely national firms as per para. 2.7 of the Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants. Recruitment of single source consultancy and individual
consultants for social studies and technical assistance would follow procedures stipulated in paragraphs 3.8
through 3.11 and 3.19 and/or 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultancy Guidelines respectively.
-42 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-xpenditure -a -   o-    i     1       . Procurement Method        .               .t .  . a
EPOdftur,CtOer  . .        :- ICSB                           2        N<B;Oe      Total Cost.
1. Works                           0.00          12.40          0.15          0.00          12.55
(0.00)        (10.08)        (0.12)        (0.00)        (10.20)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.16          0.10          0.00           0.26
(0.00)        (0.16)        (0.10)         (0.00)        (0.26)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          0.00          1.00           1.00
3.1. Project Management           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Assistance and Training -
Ph.1
0.00          0.00          0.50           0.00          0.50
3.2 Project Management            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.50)         (0.00)        (0.50)
Assistance and Training -
Ph.2 13
3.3 Pre-lnvestment Study 13        0.00           0.00          0.37          0.00           0.37
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.37)         (0.00)        (0.37)
3.4 Envir. & Social-Assess.        0.00           0.00          0.26          0.00           0.26
Studies and other support         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.26)         (0.00)        (0.26)
Total                           0.00          12.56          1.38           1.00         14.94
(0.00)        (10.24)        (1.35)        (0.00)        (11.59)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
3/ Procured through QCBS
-43 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(L-,S$ million equivalent)
iosltn                                       Seeto    M * f :hod            *_       :4'"!W
A. Firms           0.84      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.00      1.84
(0.84)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.84)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.21      0.00       0.21
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.21)    (0.00)    (0.21)
Total   0.84     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.21      1.00      2.05
(0.84)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.21)    (0.00)    (1.05)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Ctonsultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
-44 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil Works: All NCB contract packages exceeding US$300,000 equivalent by each component of the
project would be under prior review.
Goods: Procurement of goods with an individual value of more than US$50,000 will be subject to prior
review.
Technical Assistance: Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than
US$50,000 will be subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contrant  Value                               contraits $jeotto-
:.. - -Th old          Procurement              Pri -,;Re-
Expenditure (a(US$ thbusard              Method
1. Works                   $300,000 and over             NCB                      Yes
$25,000 to $300,000           NCB                 No (except first)
Under $25,000         Direct contracting/       No (except first)
solicitation of three bids/
force account
2. Goods                   $50,000 and over              NCB                      Yes
Under $50,000         National Shopping/    No (except first under each
Direct contracting         procedure)
3. Services                $50,000 and over             QCBS                      Yes
Under $50,000 (Firms)          QCBS                      No
Under $50,000       As per para 5.1 to 5.3 of         No
__________ __  (Individuals)        Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$11.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-45 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of Loan proceeds is given in Table C. Disbursements against civil works contracts will
cover about 85% of certified expenditures, with the balance to be financed from counterpart funds.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil Works                                 8.90                         85%
Goods                                       0.23            100% of foreign or ex-factory costs
and 90% for other items procured
domestically
Consultants' services, Training,            0.98                100% of total expenditures
Studies and Workshops                                                (net of taxes)
Unallocated                                 1.49
Total Project Costs                        11.60
Total                                      11.60
Use of statements of expenditures (SOIEs):
Applications for withdrawals will be sent by the Borrower to IDA based upon the anticipated payments
schedule (based upon corresponding procurelment plan). Full documentation for all contracts requiring
Bank's prior review will be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications. Expenditures for individual
contracts of goods and services, for which ]prior review by IDA is not required, will be disbursed against
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); all records evidencing such information must be retained by DOR until
at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit is made. All withdrawal applications in respect of civil works will be accompanied by
certificates from the Supervision Consultants attesting that the works and materials meet the design
standards and specifications agreed by IDA, and that the payments are in accordance with the completed
works. Royal Audit Authority will conduct financial audit; certified copies of the audited accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report and the auditor's opinion on the
statement of expenditure (SOE) would be niade available to IDA no later than 6 months after the end of the
fiscal year.
Special account:
A Special Account of US$ 1.0 million will be established at the Bank of Bhutan to meet anticipated
expenditures of about four months. Eligible payments greater than one third of the Special Account amount
may be paid by the Bank directly to suppliers at a specific request of RGOB. The Special Account will be
replenished on the basis of reimbursed clainms for eligible expenditures received by IDA.
Retroactive Financing:
Retroactive financing limited to a maximumrt total of US$ 1.0 million equivalent for eligible payments after
April 1, 1999 but before Credit signing, will be provided to cover expenses associated with: (i) Civil works
ongoing contract for the Dakpai-Buli Road (except the first 5 km); (ii) new contracts for Dakpai-Buli Road
-46 -



(10-20 km) and Lhuentse-Dungkhar Road (0-10 km), and (iii) equipment (for survey, etc.), provided that
the contracts are awarded following Bank procurement procedures and Guidelines.
Procurement Information
Information will be collected by the Project Manager, DOR and recorded as follows:
i)    Prompt recording of contract award information;
ii)    Comprehensive semi-annual reports indicating;
iii)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
iv)    revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contracts;
v)    compliance with aggregate limits on the specific methods of procurement, and
vi)    Completion report by the Borrower within three months of Credit closing date.
- 47 -



Bhutan Rural Access Project
Works Schedule for Civil Works
Proiect Years
Project Works Component    0OYear        1st Year    2nd Year    3rd Year    4th Year      5th Year
1998-99     1999-2000   2000-2001   2001-2002   2002-2003   2003-2004
1. Dakrai- Buli Rd                                            Lenatl -   (km)
Contract #1      5           5
#2                   8
#3                               1 0
#4  _                            10           9
2. Lhuentse-Dunakhar Rd
Contract #1                  10
#2                                9
#3                                            9
#4                       _                                 9
3. Trashi Yanatse
T-K Rd           Contract #1                               7
G-T Rd                   #2                                8
B-R Rd                   #31                               5
4. Trashiaana
B-B-P Rd         Contract #1                                           10
T-D-T Rd                 #2                                            3
M-T & P-Y-B Rd           #3        7_ 
5. Zhemgang
Gomphu Village   Contract #1                                                        8
Total perYear         km        5 -        23           39           38          17           0
Rural Access ComDonents:
Zhemgang Dzongkhag             Dakpai-Buli Road               37km
Road to ';omphu Village         8km
Lhuentse Dzongkhag             Lhuentse--Dungkhar Road        37km
Tashiyangste Dzongkhag         Tsengkharla-Kheni Road          7km
Gomkora-Tomzhantsten            8km
Bartshamr-Ramjar Road           5km
Tashigang Dzongkhag            Bartshamr-Bidung Road          10km
Thrimshing-Dungkhag Office Rd    3km
Mukuzor-Tshangpo School Rd      5km
Pangthanr3-Yechhen BHU Road    2km
Total Lenqth                                   122km
- 48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Proj~t~c~hdule                                 Planrned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  14                      14
First Bank mission (identification)     05/15/98                    05/15/98
Appraisal mission departure              05/15/99                   06/28/99
Negotiations                             10/15/99                   10/18/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness           01/01/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Thampil Pankaj                    Team Leader/Economics
Juan Gaviria                      Transport Economics
Heinrich K. Unger                 Environment
Jaswant S. Channe                 Road Engineering and Procurement
Eddy Bynens                       Rural Road Engineering
Bruce Mitchell                    Team Assistant
P. Selvam                         Environment
R.R. Mohan                        Social Development
Hiroko Imamura                    Legal Counsel
Pazhayannur K. Subramanian        Financial Management
Ivonna T. Kratynski               Disbursements
- 49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
I     Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, October 1999
2.     Bhutan Rural Access Project - Social Assessment, October 1999
3.     Environmental Assessment of Dhakpai-Buli Road
4.     Environmental Assessment of Lhuentse-Dungkhar Road
5.    Interim Manual on Bio-Engineering
6.     Geological Studies of Dakpai-Buli Road and Lhuentse-Dungkhar Road
7.    Final Report on Design Assistance and Training
8.    Enviromnental Codes of Practice - September 1999 (Draft)
9.     Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, September
1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Bhutan - Rural Access Roads: Socio-Economic Analysis - September 1999
C. Other
1.    Bhutan Eighth Five Year Plan (1997-2002), Ministry of Planning - September 1996
2.     Bhutanese Environmental Assessment Sectoral Guidelines, Highways and Roads, NEC, Bhutan,
1997
3.     Environmental Profile of Bhutan's Central District of Zhemgang, ISDP, 1997
4.     Revised 8th Five Year Plan Proposal for Zhemgang Dzongkhag, Vol. 1 & 2, January 1997
5.    Environmental Act of Bhutan (draft), National Enviromnent Commission, August 1997
6.     Grain, Money and Labour, Marlen Arkesteijn/Zhemgang Dzongkhag Administration/ISDP - April
1996
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions      disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                   Purpose                            IBRD        IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Frm Revd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
BT-PE-9582    1984 ROYAL GOVT OF BHUTAN      FORESTRY ]II                        0.00       5.40       0.00      3.41     3.03     0.89
BT-PE-9574    1998 ROYAL GOVT OF BHUTAN      EDUCATION II                        0.00      13.69       0.00     12.81     2.43     0.00
Total:     0.00      19.09       0.00     16.22     5.46     0.89
Active       Closed
Projects      Projects       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       2.64         21.00         23.64
of which has been repaid:      0.00          0.91          0.91
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:      19.09         16.37         35.46
Amount sold:        0.00          0.00          0.00
of which repaid:      0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Undisbursed:      16.22          0.00         16.22
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-51-



BHIUTAN
STI'ATEMENT OF IFC's
Held. and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
- 52 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South       Low       r
Bhutan       Asia  income       |Development diamond^
1998
Population, mid-veer (millions)                         0.76      1,305      3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (A/as3 mtthad, USSi                       480        430       520
GNP (Atlas method, iS$ bi/ions)                          0.36       555      1.844
Average annual growth. 1992-.9
Population (56)                                           2 9        1.8       1.7
Labor force (X)                                           2.3       2.3        1.9      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1992-98                                  capita                         enrollment
Poverty (I% of popueltion below national tpoverty line)
Urban population (I% of tota/ population)                 I 5        27         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          66         62         63
Infant mortality (per 1 000 live births)                  71         77        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                38         53          .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popu/at/oti                    64         81         74
liliteracy (% of population age 13+)                      46         49         32
Gross primary enrollment (%6 of school-age poDouatfon)    72        100        108                 Bhutan
Mate                                                     ..       109       113                    Low-income group
Female                                                             90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998      fEonomicratios
GDP (US$ bi/lions)                                .      0.28      0,40       0,43
Gross domestic investment/GOP                     ..    30.5       48.1       47.3                      Trade
Exports of goods and servicesIGOP                 ..    21.4       33.0       33,2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                        ..    17 2       38.8       37.9
Gross national savings/GOP                        ..     10 1      35.8       36.5
Current account balance/GDP                      ..   -34.0       -14.1      -10.8      Domestic       //s\\
tnterest payments/GOP                  ..                 0.2        0.6       0.5      Savings                       investment
Total debtlGDP                                   ..    14.4         30.3      27,8       avn
Total debt service/exports                        .       1.0        6.0       6.3
Present value of debt/GDP                         . 
Present value of debt/exports                     .        .
Indebtednesss
1977-B7  198S.98      1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    7.9      6.1       7,8       7.1        7.1             -.     Bhutan
GNP per capita                         7.2      2.0      2.6        2.4        3.1                -Low-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services           ..       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP at factor costl)8
Agriculture                                       ..    46.0        37.8      38.2     B0
Industry                                         ..    27.4        36.5       36.5     40
Manufacturing                                  ..       5.8       11.4      11.6      40
Services                                          ..    26.6       25.8       25.4     20
Private consumption                              ..    65.2        35.8       36.2    -20 1          94   95   96   97   Pe
General government consumption                    ..    17.6       25.5       25.8                      GDo     -0GDP
Imports of goods and services                     ..    34.6       42.3       42.6
(average annual growth)                    1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                     6.2       3.1        3.1       3.4     2
Industry                                       14.8       9.0        3.8       7.3      I
Manufacturing                                11.6      12.2        3.6      13.0
Services                                        6.7       7.0      16.1        7.2
Private consumption                               ..       ..
General government consumption                    ..       ..         ..
Gross domestic investment                       4.7       9.9       0.3        7.5            93   94   9S   96   07    98
Imports of goods and services                     ..        .          .         ..            -Exporis    - Imports
Gross national product                          9.4       5.0        5.7       5.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 53 -



Bhutan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      199S      Inflation (%)
Domestic prikes
(% change)                                                                             2-
Consumer prices                                   ..      4.8        7.4       9.0    15
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..      8.6       14.7       5.9    10
Govemment finance                                                                       s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o             l
Current revenue                                  ..        ..       18.5      19.9             93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                            ..       ..        0.6       3.3              -    GDP deflator    C  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        ..       -2.3       3.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       29         99       ill
Electricity                                     ..       ..         21        37
Agric. Prods.                                   ..       ..         12
Manufactures                                                        I` 
Total imports  i                                         101        13c        13i
Food
Fuel and energy
Capital goods 
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..92   93   94   9                                               3   97   98
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..         ..        ..               0 Exports     t imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UIS$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..      50        121       146       0 -
Importsofgoodsandservices                         ..     144        183       203      .s   2   93   94   s5   96   97   98
Resource balance                                 ..      -95        -62        -57    -10_
Net income                                         -       0           0        0      -15
Net current transfers                            ..        0          6        11    -20
Current account balance                           ..     -95        -56        -47     -25 -
Financing items (net)                            ..       79         78        92      -30
Changes in net reserves                           ..      16        -22        -45     .35 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..        ..       176       218
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                8.7      13.0       36.3      41.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0       40        121       120
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        9         23        24                                  B:24
Total debt service                                0         1          7         9            E: 3
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..        ..        74        85
Official creditors                              0       16         14         2
Private creditors                               0        0         -2        -2
Foreign direct investment                      ..        0          0         0
Portfolio equity                               ..        0          0         0                              D:58
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0          0        14      A - lIRD                       E - Biateral
Disbursements                                   0        5          I         1      8B-IDA     0-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       0        5          1         1
Interest payments                               0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                   0        5          1         0
Data on National Accounts and Debt is in calendar year, all other data is in fiscal year.                                 11/17/99
Development Economics
- 54 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
BHUTAN: RURAL ACCESS PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Environmental Strategy and Policy in Bhutan
Reflecting Bhutan's unique culture and environment, the National Environment Commission (NEC) of
RGOB in December 1998 issued a National Environment Strategy for Bhutan. In this well-articulated
document, titled " The Middle Path", the government has stated in the strongest possible terms, that
protecting the natural environment, and ensuring that development activities undertaken in the Kingdom
must be done in a sustainable and environmentally sensitive manner.
The document sets out a comprehensive and realistic strategy for sustainable development of Bhutan, with
its extensive forest cover, fragile mountain ecosystems, extremely high levels of bio-diversity and a largely
intact natural resource base. As illustration of Bhutan's commitment to environmental conservation as the
core of the national development strategy, RGOB has decided to maintain a minimum of 60% of the land
under forest cover - actual forest cover is now 72% - and to designate more than a quarter of the territory
as protected areas.
Legal Framework for EA in Bhutan
In 1993 draft EA guidelines for Bhutan were prepared by NEC. These guidelines were generic and
institutional arrangements, including roles and responsibilities were not clearly defined. In addition, lack of
suitably trained personnel restrained NEC and other government ministries from effectively implementing
the guidelines. NEC is the reviewing clearance agent of all EA documents prepared by project proponents.
As a result of the above-mentioned deficiencies, NEC, with technical assistance from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) undertook a major revision of the environmental assessment process,
culminating in the publishing of a series of technical documents. These documents include: (a) Sectoral
Guidelines for: Forestry, Mining and Mineral Processing, New and Existing Industries, Hydropower,
Transmission Lines, Highways and Roads, and Strategic Environmental Assessments (NEC 1999); (b)
Institutionalizing and Strengthening of the Environmental Assessment Process in Bhutan (NEC 1999).
Reference Document; (c) Ambient / Discharge Standards and Environmental Sampling Manual (NEC
1999); and (d) Environmental Assessment Process Manual (NEC 1999).
The above documents and guidelines govern the EA process, and until the Draft Environmental Assessment
Act (1997) is formally approved by RGoB, all development and construction activities have to comply with
the Environmental Compliance Notification No. NEC/EA/98-99/655 dated 24th February 1999 issued by
the Chairman of the NEC.
Summary of Environmental Assessment Process
The National Environment Commission has developed an Environmental Assessment Process Manual
(NEC 1999), which provides technical guidance for each component of the environmental assessment (EA)
process. NEC views the environmental assessment process as a dynamic one, and will initially review both
the EA for the implementation of the process, and key project documents on an annual basis. Suggested
improvements will be carefully considered by NEC and affected ministries, with a view to ensuring that the
process remains relevant and practical.
- 55 -



Project proposals are classified into one of four categories (project assessment paths) based on results of
irnpact scoping and screening activities:
Category A. Proposals which require a full environmental assessment to establish the extent and
magnitude of potential impacts. These projects are usually categorized as complex.
Category B. Proposals which have potentially significant impacts, however management and treatment
options are well developed and understood. These projects can be adequately managed through application
of detailed impact management and monitoring plans.
Category C. Proposals that have moderate impacts which tend to be repetitive. These itnpacts can be
managed by attaching environmental codes-of-best-practice to licenses and permits; and
Category D. Proposals that have moderate and easily managed impacts. Simple environmental terms are
attached to the business permits or licenses.
Category A, B and C projects will require environmental clearance by NEC before the competent authority
provides development consent. Category D projects can be issued development consent by the competent
authority without obtaining an environmental clearance by NEC. However, the competent Authority will
submit a list of projects approved under category D to NEC for annual review.
Based on IDA's review, Bhutan's EA process is consistent with IDA requirements as set out in OP 4.01 -
Environmental Assessment and would be adecquate for mitigating and managing any significant negative
environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of the project. IDA supervision will review
compliance with these procedures by the implementing agency.
Status of EA Preparation Work
EA work started with the EA for the first road section, the Dakpai - Buli road whose first 10 km are
already under construction. A reasonably good quality EA was completed in February 1998 and was
cleared by NEC. Unfortunately, the EA recommendations for mitigation were not translated into the
contract documents and the first 5 km were built the traditional way. The EA, however, is adequate and
would be a good basis for EF construction of the remainder of the Dakpai-Buli road.
A good, comprehensive EA has been prepared for the Lhuentse-Dungkhar road (the second road section on
which construction is to start on the first 10 kin later in 1999). It is expected to be cleared by NEC by
August 1999. IDA had commented on the TCR and the draft EA. The affected communities were
consulted during village meetings as part of the EA preparation, and the consultations were well
documented; they produced useful insights into the concerns of the people. Consultations were also held
with the executive director of the Royal Society for the Protection of Nature of Bhutan; he is also
responsible for the World Wildlife Fund Program in Bhutan.
This EA will be the model EA for environmental assessments to be carried out for the remainder of the
project roads. As soon as the environmental codes of practice (ECOP) for the road sector have been
completed (now under preparation), EA could deal with the more site specific aspects while routine design,
construction and maintenance procedures should follow the ECOP. All future road sections financed by the
project are/will be subject to a detailed EA in accordance with the requirements and regulations of RGOB.
Any significant negative impacts identified in the EA can be mitigated by the application of EF design and
construction methods. For any roads yet to be selected by DOR, a check on the location of protected areas
and any wildliife corridors or protected species should be carried out as part of the screening process.
- 56 -



Issues and Actions
The first 10 kmn of Dakpai - Buli road is the first road section to be financed by the project; construction
had started in November 1998. An adequate EA, cleared by NEC, had been prepared by February 1998,
but DOR, without expert assistance found it difficult to implement EF construction over the first 5 km.
The specialist TA provided through PHRD funding has assisted to improve designs and construction
methods, and the next 5 km will be built fully with EF methods. This section should be eligible for
retroactive financing.
During project preparation, (i) IDA will review fnalized EA for Lhuentse-Dungkhar road which will be the
model for subsequent EA work; (ii) DOR will complete ECOP by April 2000 and incorporate
environmental requirements into the contract documents; (iii) IDA will receive and review the first set of
contract documents for inclusion of EF construction methods; and, during project implementation, (iv)
specialist TA will be provided to assist DOR to implement EF construction and maintenance consistently,
and also mainstream it throughout the road sector.
Additional Resources
During pre-appraisal it was decided that in addition to EA and environmental management plan (EMP),
environmental codes of practice (ECOP) for the road sector - as recommended by the NEC sectoral
guidelines - should be prepared before the start of full project implementation. The specialist consultant,
together with the local environmental consultant, have prepared a first draft outline of the ECOP. When
completed they will greatly help to incorporate sound environmental management (mitigation and
monitoring) into the planning and design process, the contract documents for construction, and the
guidelines and procedures for operation and maintenance of roads.
Further to the need identified and agreed during pre-appraisal, grant funds were also used to engage a
specialist consultant for the preparation of a bio-engineering manual specifically for Bhutan. DOR and
other agencies had made some more or less successful attempts to introduce this approach for erosion
control and the stabilization of slopes, but it was felt that a more comprehensive initiative, supported by a
manual and staff training was needed, not only for the project roads, but sector-wide, both for construction
and for maintenance and repairs.
In June an 1999 an interim manual was delivered which was adapted from a similar manual for Nepal. The
manual was complemented by a trainer's manual and by training materials (handouts). The specialist
consultant also conducted a one-week training course in the use and application of bio-engineering
techniques in Bhutan, but it became clear from feedback from the course participants (which included staff
from agencies other than DOR), that more intensive training is needed. The manual will also require wide
dissemination and updating, revision and refinement based on the experience made with its use. Ideally, a
local consultant should be retained to get involved in this specialized area (which is still in its infancy in
Bhutan) and, assisted by the international specialist, take charge of the manual revisions and the training.
- 57 -



I



IBRD 30466
90T00                                 90.30                                 91 -'                                   91030'                                92000
ELEVATION N METERS:
CHINA      ,                                                                                                                                                                                                        BHUTAN
\,,    jW'faf''A      Z        .Ts,'. 4109        0T0   -28'30'                                                                                                                                  RURAL ACCESS  PROJECT
;3AA       3-A                       000
1005
:iZ ,                                                                                                                                                      -       PROPOSED FPEDER ROAD CONSTRUCTIOHI                PAVED ROADS
' *   ' >    . '  '' H 'l MALA Yt A 7. ;                                                                                                                   A j,  or,,7.> .; _. \  s  M M Lbuntso-TungkIm- 571m- - --   NPAVED ROADS
OIL  a                                - .e   .        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 0O94O WI,                   op km                          NATIONAL PROTECTET AREAS~~~~~~~~~~ki  7 k  NTINA PRTETE AEA
.J 9 <  ~                                                                                     1                                                                                       f4 n  C  -  >g f ~i T' g - R mL Skmm> -R   Dakp   i  3u9 37 km  RIVERS
-'  -t                                       I                               -                                                          & 0e,,9Lim,ioiA.m               7km~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tgh-.Kh  1
ND-m~T2. A                                                                                                                               N                                             G,k;'  om-To'., )  r,  o v  Shool  3k m            4      AIRPORT
~     9 j9A   I499)<    oO~ 1-                                                                                                                                           kdlmRdo0Pog.Tk               0km                           NAT ONAL CAPITAL
Vol  ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~      ~     ~     -                                                                                                         hMkso9 Tm9kop.0 OP-IoTonp  3oo  6k                         DISTRICT CAPITALS
__________________________________________________________________F__                                              -* P,m -o.d d ymmo              2 km                   0     OTHER TOWNS
89T00S                               89'30'   j                                    '       ,0 Fed ..dmoId Gmp-pV.Villg                                                                       9km k*5099_4.W  DZONGKHAG BOUNDARIES
TOTAL I22km 1                     -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AIGME   DORJI GA-)'.                                                                                            *4 N
2900'P r .                                              S      \   { NATIONAL       PARK       ,                                                                                                              t
J                                                            S                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
to              0       IT     5,0    30    40O    50
r(                             I       IHH
0,1,5953'W'f   ';                         */  /t                                                                                                            Is 6agvu (i     J  L> ,(+5L           t        t>
-'             k.^'.          ,           .- (RI<" f t KLOMETERS
27.0 ~.                                        i.              .   3 -  /                                                                ,- *c$~TsIhT  3AT AN                                                            + -
>gJ  Tomt5 Sgm t/w:7J Ok                                                                  ,#.3ATL. 19  g rchIY haUthNG
h~~~~~TRSI                               't                              ,,T                               PSlb u~t          Tear07s~dDn XsD2hlDROI >_RJC_<  _ }[tF                                                                                SAKTNLTUR
G~~~~~SRC                           Hap *                                                                      -tlK   M S.                   V         .9 r       #\g                             fTrashign                              o    l     WIV Ln7 rn   r~~s~~DLIFIEc
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i -T.d9                                                                                                         ANG  (MONGAR
kiT,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
PA APO ~ ~ ~ ~
27-3'      B  -0'                                    IMPHU                                                                                  Ja                                                                                                                      27931
TBRGA                                                       A                            9oo
0  Sarp        -~~~~ SOA                     NS3 Aba
Stki QPmgI  PHoat                                                                                                                                                           Dr-              *'s.                             AKNALNG
'I, NATukE ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ *                N4K  o
TmA'.~ mS'.A.om.mommAmyoRESERVE                                                                                     BLAPhjTNseTea                                                                                                  n                WLDLIFESACUR
HAA                                                                                                                                                                                                    CTUARY~~~~~~~~IDlF  SNTUR
9900'        9930'                                 9000'                                  9030'                                 91 00                                  9130                                      9700~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA'  K  Hk'GA p-
4EMIGAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVEBR19



