Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3309 BHU
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Access Project)
between
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 16, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3309 BHU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 2000, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Netherlands 
(the Netherlands) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of one million nine 
hundred fifty-five thousand Netherlands Guilders (NLG 1,955,000) (the Netherlands 
Contribution) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the Netherlands Contribution Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Netherlands; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through \0bDecember 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"DOR" means the Division of Roads of the Borrower within MOC (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(b)
"DYT" means the District Development Committee (Dzongkhag Yargye 
Tshogchung) of each Project District (as hereinafter defined) involved in, inter alia, 
the planning and coordination of activities to be carried out under the Project at the 
district level; 
(c)
"Dzongkhag Administration" means the administrative authority of each 
District (Dzongkhag) of the Borrower responsible for, inter alia, the planning, 
implementation, coordination, management,  supervision and monitoring and evaluation 
of development activities carried out at the district level; 
(d)
"EA" means each environmental assessment report prepared or to be 
prepared by the Borrower for each of the roads included in the Project, each such EA 
to be satisfactory to the Association and to set forth, inter alia, the assessment of 
environmental impacts of the construction, rehabilitation and other civil works for 
the relevant roads and recommendations based on such assessment;
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g)
"EMP" means each environmental management plan contained in an EA, each 
such EMP to be satisfactory to the Association and to set forth, inter alia, the 
measures to mitigate adverse environmental impacts of the construction, rehabilitation 
and other civil works for the roads included in the Project and to monitor the 
implementation of such mitigation measures; 
(h)
"Environmental Codes of Practice" means the Environmental Codes of 
Practice of the Borrower prepared by DOR setting forth environmental guidelines to be 
followed for all road planning, design, construction and maintenance activities; 
(i)
"MOC" means the Ministry of Communications of the Borrower; 
(j)
"Participatory Activities" means activities involving stakeholders, local 
communities and non-governmental organizations for assisting in the implementation of 
the Project and for enhancing the effectiveness of the Project, including without 
limitation a project launch workshop and other workshops and training;
(k)
"Project Cell" means the Project Cell established in DOR and responsible 
for, inter alia, the planning, implementation, coordination, management, supervision 
and monitoring and evaluation of activities to be carried out under the Project; 
(l)
"Project District" means each District (Dzongkhag) of the Borrower in 
which a part of the Project will be carried out; 
(m)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementation Plan of 
the Borrower for the carrying out of the Project, dated October 1999 and approved by 
the Association, as the same may be updated from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association; 
(n)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
"RAP" means each resettlement action plan prepared or to be prepared by 
the Borrower for each of the roads included in the Project, each such RAP to be 
satisfactory to the Association and to be consistent with the objectives, policies, 
procedures and other provisions set forth in the Policy Framework for Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons of the Borrower dated September 1999 and 
approved by the Association and to set forth, inter alia, the entitlement framework, 
institutional arrangements, implementation schedules, monitoring mechanisms and cost 
Page  3
estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the 
implementation of the Project; and
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
8,500,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each \0bJune 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2010 and ending December 15, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
Page  4
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through DOR, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial 
management and accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such fiscal year as so audited, 
Page  5
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
July 1, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that: 
Page  6
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Netherlands Contribution 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the Netherlands Contribution 
Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the Netherlands Contribution Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Netherlands Contribution Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have 
been fulfilled; and 
(b)
all actions set forth in the action plan referred to in Section 4.02(a) 
of this Agreement for which the completion dates specified therein precede the 
Effective Date have been completed. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Tashichhodzong
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
890-201
THIMPHU, BHUTAN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  7
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By /s/ Lyonpo Om Pradhan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Marilou Uy 
Country Director, 
Bhutan
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   6,520,000
85%
(2)
Goods
     170,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expend-
itures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services    720,000
100%
(including services of
local non-governmental
organizations and local
communities), training,
studies and workshops
(4)
Unallocated
     1,090,000
TOTAL
     8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  8
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of \0bSDR 
750,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after April 1, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each for employment of consulting firms (including local non-governmental 
organizations and local communities) and $25,000 equivalent each for employment of 
individual consultants; and (d) training; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Bank of Bhutan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records, accounts and financial statements reflecting expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Page  9
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,200,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  10
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
access of rural communities to markets, schools, health centers and other economic and 
social infrastructure in order to improve the quality of life and productivity of 
rural communities; and (ii) strengthening institutional capacity for implementing 
environmentally friendly approaches to improve rural access, community involvement in 
rural roads selection and management and improved infrastructure maintenance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Construction and Rehabilitation 
1.
Implementing a program of construction and rehabilitation of about 120 km of 
feeder roads. 2.
Carrying out a program of resettlement and rehabilitation of 
people affected by the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Strengthening
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOC/DOR, the DYTs and Dzongkhag 
Administrations through the provision of technical assistance and training for: (i) 
project management, project designs with environmentally friendly methods, monitoring 
and evaluation, and the strengthening of the financial management system established 
in DOR; (ii) environmental and social assessment studies and related action plans; 
(iii) maintenance planning of feeder roads, including prioritization, efficiency 
improvements and introduction of community participation; (iv) Participatory 
Activities; (v) socio-economic evaluation of completed roads; and (vi) pre-investment 
studies for a follow-up project. 
*          *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
National Competitive Bidding 
Page  11
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
(a)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of 
bids; 
(b)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee; 
(c)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified period agreed with the 
Association; 
(d)
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
(e)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
(f)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, a 
foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(g)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
(h)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
bidders or any other bidders; 
(i)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association; 
(j)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates; 
(k)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(l)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
(m)
a bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific contract under 
which it was furnished; 
(n)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out.  
When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which (i) if collusion is 
determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be 
made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and (ii) if no evidence of 
collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the 
concurrence of the Association;
(o)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (i) for the first request for extension if it is longer 
than eight weeks and (ii) for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of 
the period; 
(p)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost; and 
(q)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International or National Shopping/Direct Contracting
Page  12
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract: 
(i) 
may, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent, 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines; or 
(ii)
may, with the Association’s prior agreement and up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, be procured by direct 
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works/Direct Contracting /Force Account
Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent: 
(i)
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully; 
(ii)
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured by direct 
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent; or 
(iii)
may, if they meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried 
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $300,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, (ii) the first contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $300,000 and (iii) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to (i) the first contract for goods to be procured under 
shopping procedures under paragraph 1 of Part C above, (ii) the first contract for 
goods to be procured by direct contracting under paragraph 1 of Part C above and (iii) 
the first contract for works to be procured by direct contracting or three-quotation 
procedures under paragraph 2 of Part C above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping or 
three-quotation procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping, 
three-quotation or direct contracting procedures, the Borrower 
Page  13
shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for training, Participatory Activities and resettlement and 
rehabilitation activities which are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
Page  14
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation Plan 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
Project Cell  
2.
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2000 complete the appointment of, and 
thereafter maintain, an adequate number of professional staff in the Project Cell with 
skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, including without limitation (i) a Project Manager, (ii) an Assistant 
Project Manager, (iii) two Section Officers in the DOR head office, (iv) an 
Environmental Engineer, (v) a Procurement Officer, (vi) a Finance Officer, (vii) a 
Project Accountant, (viii) a Site Engineer in each Project District and (ix) two 
Section Officers in each Project District. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that, to the extent possible, the key staff in the 
Project Cell listed in the preceding paragraph will not be transferred to other 
positions during the period of Project implementation (and in the case of the Finance 
Officer, for the additional six months following the Closing Date).
Technical Assistance and Training 
4.
By March 31, 2000, the Borrower shall appoint, with skills, qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a Technical 
Assistance and Training Team consisting of (i) a Team Leader, (ii) a Project 
Management Assistant Team (including a Senior Roads Engineer, an Environmental 
Engineer and a Roads Engineer) and (iii) short-term experts for purposes of assisting 
DOR with remaining Project designs, Project supervision, monitoring and on-the-job 
training, with particular emphasis on environmentally friendly design and construction 
practices. 
5.
During the period of Project implementation, the Borrower shall appoint, with 
skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, technical assistance consultants for purposes of assisting DOR with 
environmental assessments, social assessments, institutional support and follow-up 
project preparation. 
Environmentally Friendly Road Construction Methods 
6.
The Borrower shall implement environmentally friendly methods of road 
construction and related bio-engineering for roads included in the Project in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
7.
By December 31, 2000, the Borrower shall complete the training, with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, of an adequate number of planning, design 
and supervisory staff of DOR on environmentally friendly methods of road construction 
and related bio-engineering; such training shall also be extended to road works 
contractors. 
Road Maintenance Planning and Management
8.
The Borrower shall: (i) conduct a review of ways to improve the efficiency of 
Page  15
its road maintenance systems, including without limitation ways to mobilize adequate 
maintenance funding and to increase the utilization of local community involvement in 
maintenance planning and management; (ii) by October 31, 2001, submit to the 
Association an action plan, based on such review and satisfactory to the Association, 
for improving the efficiency of its road maintenance systems; and (iii) thereafter 
implement such action plan in a manner and with a timetable satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Pilot Program for Road Maintenance with Local Road Users and Community Participation
9.
Without limitation on the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall: (i) by 
December 31, 2000, initiate a pilot program for the maintenance of roads included in 
the Project with the scope and content satisfactory to the Association and with the 
participation of local road users and communities; (ii) by December 31, 2002, prepare 
a report, satisfactory to the Association, on the effectiveness of such pilot program 
and the further expansion of coverage of such pilot program to other roads; (iii) by 
June 30, 2003, appoint consultants to conduct an independent review of the lessons 
learned from such pilot program; (iv) by October 31, 2003, formulate a program, 
satisfactory to the Association, for involving local road users and communities in the 
maintenance of feeder roads of the Borrower; and (v) thereafter implement such program 
in a manner and with a timetable satisfactory to the Association. 
Selection of Roads for Part A.1 of the Project
10.
The Borrower shall: (i) select the roads to be included in Part A.1 of the 
Project with the prior approval of the Association and in accordance with the 
socio-economic criteria and the local community participatory process satisfactory to 
the Association; and (ii) prior to undertaking civil works for any such roads, submit 
to the Association documentation satisfactory to the Association for undertaking civil 
works for such roads, including without limitation an EA, an EMP, a RAP and a report 
demonstrating that the proposed civil works on such roads satisfy the socio-economic 
criteria and the local community participatory process referred to in this paragraph. 
Environmental Codes of Practice 
11.
By April 30, 2000, the Borrower shall submit to the Association a final version 
of the Environmental Codes of Practice satisfactory to the Association. 
Environmental Assessments and Environmental Management Plans
12.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
submit to the Association an EA and EMP, satisfactory to the Association, 
for each of the roads included in the Project for which such EA and EMP had not been 
completed as of July 1999, before bids relating to works for such roads are invited 
or, if no bidding process is involved, before a contractor for works for such roads is 
selected in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
implement the environmental mitigation, monitoring and evaluation and all 
other activities set forth in each EA and EMP, including without limitation each EA 
and EMP referred to in the preceding subparagraph, in accordance with the objectives, 
policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein and shall 
not take any action which would prevent or interfere with such implementation. 
13.
The Borrower shall ensure that all civil works contracts, bid documents and 
bills of quantities for the roads included in the Project will include the 
environmental mitigation measures set forth in the relevant EA, EMP and the 
Environmental Codes of Practice.
Resettlement Action Plans 
14.
By April 30, 2000, the Borrower shall appoint independent social assessment 
consultants, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, for the preparation and monitoring of RAPs for roads included in the 
Project.
15.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
submit to the Association a RAP, satisfactory to the Association, for 
each of the roads included in the Project for which such RAP had not been completed as 
of September 1999, before bids relating to works for such roads are invited or, if no 
bidding process is involved, before a contractor for works for such roads is selected 
Page  16
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
implement the resettlement and rehabilitation, monitoring and evaluation 
and all other activities set forth in each RAP, including without limitation each RAP 
referred to in the preceding subparagraph, in accordance with the objectives, 
policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein and shall 
not take any action which would prevent or interfere with such implementation.
16.
The Borrower shall: (i) by June 30, 2003, appoint independent social assessment 
consultants, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, to conduct a socio-economic assessment of impacts on Project 
beneficiaries of the road works and resettlement and rehabilitation activities carried 
out under the Project, with the beneficiary participation in data collection and 
impact monitoring; and (ii) by March 31, 2004, submit to the Association a report, 
satisfactory to the Association, of such assessment. 
Quarterly Reports 
17.
The Borrower shall, within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, provide to the Association a quarterly report setting forth (i) the progress 
of the Project implementation and the achievement of the indicators referred to in 
paragraph 18 below and (ii) proposed action plans for each Part of the Project for the 
following calendar quarter. Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-Term Review
18.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by January 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
