Page  1
May 14, 1999
Lyonpo Yeshey Zimba
Minister of Finance
Thimpu, Bhutan
Re:
BHUTAN: Japanese Grant for the Rural Access Project 
Grant No. TF025788
Dear Lyonpo:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding one hundred and ninety six thousand United States 
Dollars (US$ 196,000) (the Grant) to the Kingdom of Bhutan (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John Wall
Director, Bhutan
South Asia
AGREED:
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By /s/ Lam Dorji
Joint Director, National Budget & Aid
Coordination Division, Ministry of Finance
Date: May 26, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purpose and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Rural Access 
Project (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(a) Carrying out of: (i) studies to explore and ascertain community 
participation, local ownership and prioritization of roads; (ii) economic feasibility 
and social and environmental impact studies; and (iii) a financial study.
(b) Preparation of: (i) preliminary and detailed engineering designs to 
appropriate environmental and technical standards, including conducting of training 
seminars and work-shops related thereto; (ii) recommendations for a labor-intensive 
Page  2
construction methodology and bio-engineering technology; and (iii) a study on 
institutional and community mechanisms for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of 
rural access roads.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA’s 
representatives to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the 
Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in US dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
186,000
100%
(2)
Goods
 10,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
TOTAL
196,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, and the 
term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
US$40,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after April 1, 1999; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
Page  3
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after  December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the 
corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by a designated person of the Ministry of Finance or such other person as he 
or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than US$25,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such terms and 
conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Ngultrums a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central 
Bank of Bhutan on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
Page  4
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the 
Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by IDA in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for detailed engineering and other studies 
under paragraph 1.1 (b) of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for feasibility and other studies, and assistance in preparation of 
preliminary and detailed designs under paragraphs 1.1 (a) (i) and (ii) and (b) of the 
Annex estimated to cost less than US$140,000 equivalent per contract, may, with IDA’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  5
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the financial study under paragraph 1.1 (a) (iii) of the Annex 
shall be procured under a contract awarded to an individual consultant in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract [for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by IDA in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The 
review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such paragraph 4, shall be read 
as "quotations".
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$70,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  6
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
Page  7
