                 Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                         International Development Association
                                                                                                    86733
                            International Finance Corporation
                       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                     CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                            EDS99-378
                                                                                      December 20, 1999
                                                                                           05:23:28 PM
    Statement by Ruth Bachmayer
    Date of Meeting: December 21, 1999

                     Bhutan Country Assistance Strategy and Urban Development
                                 Project and Rural Access Project


    I. The country assistance strategy for Bhutan reflects
                                                            both the high degree of ownership and
       responsibility of the government, and the sensitive and
                                                                 demand driven approach of the
       WB/IDA team cooperating with the country and the small
                                                                    donor community. Bhutan can
       serve as a model of an "emancipated" developing country
                                                                    with a strong and consistent vision
       of its development path and sufficient self-reliance in its
                                                                   way to implement it, with the
       support of selected partners. The World Bank/IDA team,
                                                                   on the other side, recognizes that it
       can serve Bhutan best by responding to the demands of
                                                                 the Government in a very selective
       and appropriate manner which complements the activities
                                                                    of other donors.
   2. The country's development characteutstics have been
                                                          outlined in the Bhutan 2020 document.
      This unique strategy places human happiness, not economic
                                                                 growth, in the center of nation's
      vision and values for development.

       Although the economy has been growing fast in the recent
                                                                   years, the living standards need to
       be improved. The major problem that the country faces is
                                                                  the high population growth rate and
       lack of jobs for this fast growing population. As the government
                                                                          correctly chooses not to
       become the first and final resort for employment, the private
                                                                      sector needs to be enhanced. I
       understand that Bhutan has been taking necessary measures
                                                                     to improve the business
       environment and the private sector participation in the economy.

   3. I endorse IDA's assistance strategy which focuses
                                                             its support on analytical and advisory
      assistance while limiting its financial assistance to two relatively
                                                                            small, but important
      projects in the rural and urban area:
      In a country like Bhutan where a vast majority of the population
                                                                           lives in remote rural areas
llis document has a restricted distribution
                                            and may be used by recipients only in the
    and depends on subsistence farming, special attention needs to be paid to a balanced
    development of rural and urban areas with the aim of keeping migration to urban
                                                                                         areas low.
    Both projects have a high leverage potential with respect to social impact and institutional
    effectiveness. At the same time, their design allows for a sufficiently long implementation
    period, thus giving the authorities involved the possibility to build up the required
                                                                                          capacity
    for long-term project sustainability.
    I, therefore, approve both projects.

4. IDA's focus on the transfer of knowledge meets the demand of the government
                                                                                    and
   complements the available support provided by other donors. All areas envisaged
                                                                                      (in
   paragraph 46) seem to be sensible as they would systemically improve public sector
   performance and effectiveness (esp. better targeting of budget expenditures on
                                                                                  the poor) as
   well as the framework conditions for private sector development.
   The WB should also use its experience in helping the government to develop
                                                                                 a better
   understanding of and response to the refugee and ethnic minority issues to prevent
                                                                                       potential
   damaging tensions in an early stage. Conceming the high population growth rate,
                                                                                     IDA could
   support awareness programs, though such support is not envisaged in the CAS.

5. Economic development and the provision of employment opportunities is of
                                                                                     great
   importance, as the document rightly emphasizes.
   The financial sector is an area where IDA's technical contribution is vital. The
                                                                                       absence of a
   sound financial sector results in the excess liquidity to sit in non-interest bearing
                                                                                          accounts.
   Therefore, technical support on financial sector issues is an important element
                                                                                       of the CAS.
   The improvement of the private sector with a better financial sector can place the
                                                                                           country on
   a faster development path which is needed intensely to avoid possible social
                                                                                     conflicts.
   As the country grows and the private sector becomes more prominent in the
                                                                                country, it can be
   expected that export diversification in terns of both markets and goods will
                                                                                be increased.
   Although the lack of such diversification is not considered as a major problem
                                                                                  for the time
   being, it should not be delayed for a long period.

6. The description in paragraph 12 of the hydropower sector development is
                                                                             very interesting
   and promising. It shows that there are constructive ways of exploiting hydropower
                                                                                       resources
   in environmentally and socially benign ways. In this sense, Bhutan may serve
                                                                                 as a model for
   sustainable energy sector development. However, from a macroeconomic point
                                                                                   of view, the
   high GDP and export share of energy raises some concerns. Possible fluctuation
                                                                                    in prices
   and the high dependency on demand from India seem to make Bhutan rather
                                                                                vulnerable.
7. The observation in Box 4 of the CAS document that Bhutan's development
                                                                               practices have
   anticipated the Comprehensive Development Framework deserves attention with
                                                                                      regard to
   the question what we can learn from Bhutan's development model and what
                                                                                distinguishes
   this country from others which struggle with the implementation of many structural
                                                                                         elements
   of the CDF concept, including coordination issues. One distinct feature may
                                                                                be the very
   small group of donors which reduces complexity and organizational costs for
                                                                                 all actors
   involved and avoids pressure on the absorption capacity of the government.
8. Finally, I would like to congratulate the WB/IDA tem for its excellent work and
                                                                                      its high
   degree of sensitivity and responsiveness to the needs and demands of the government of
   Bhutan. The fact that there are countries with a functioning comprehensive structure
                                                                                          for
   sustainable development, benefiting and including Al parts of the society, shows that
                                                                                           a
   comprehensive development concept brings about positive results. Bhutan is obviously
                                                                                              in the
   favorable situation to have realized early enough the importance of a balanced approach
                                                                                               to
   development, taking all elements of the society and the institutional system into account.

We wish the country every success in the continuation on their development path.
