Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR oMcAL USE ONLY
j/y.    0' oo 
Rwort No. P-4096-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 67 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOPEA
FOR A
SEOUL-BUSAN CORRIDOR PROJECT
May 16, 1985
This document hs a resilted dls&btom and may be wed by reipient only in tho perfonmace of
their offia   . Is cgmemot     ma   othwse be dislosed witout World Bonk authrinuo



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US1           =    W 860 (as of April 1985)
USa1.16        =    W 1,000
US$1 million   =    W 860 million
US$1,162       =    W 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BPR       -     Bureau of Public Roads
CTC       -     Centralized Traffic Control
EPB       -     Economic Planning Board
COK       -     Government of Korea
KEC       -     Korea Highway Corporation
KHPA      -     Korea Maritime and Ports Authority
KNR       -     Korean lational Railroad
MOC       -     Ministry of Construction
MOER      -     Ministry of Energy and Resources
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MOHA      -     Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT       -     Ministry of Transportation
SMESRS    -     Seoul Metropolitan Electric Suburban Railway System
TCC       -     Transport Coordination Committee
.



FOR OMFICIL USE ONLY
KOREA
SEOUL - BUSAN CORRIDOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Sunmary
Borrower:        Republic of Korea
Amount:          $67 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 15 years with 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate
Project
Description:   The basic objective of the project is to assist the Korean
National Railways (KNR) to increase transport efficiency and
capacity of rail services in the Seoul-Busan Corridor. The
loan funds would help finance part of a Hanagement Improve-
ment Program to be implemented over the 1985-88 period.
KNR's program includes: (a) institutional and policy
measures aimed mainly at ensuring long-term economic and
financial viability of the railways by further improving
services that are most profitable; (b) measures to improve
intermodal complementarity and railway competitiveness and to
prepare the ground for a high speed train, a major capacity
increase to be introduced in the 90s; and (c) capacity expan-
sion through resignalling and central traffic control between
Suweon and Daegu on the Seoul Busan Corridor, and related
rolling stock and equipment, providing over one-third more
trains more safely and at faster speed. The proposed project
comprises the resignalling and central traffic components of
item (c), as well as associated technical assistance and
training. The project has a high economic return and the
signalling overhaul is overdue.
Risks:           Risk for this type of project is in traffic forecasting; but
in Korea's rapidly growing economy actual passenger traffic
has typically exceeded forecasts in the past. Sensitivity
analysis shows that a satisfactory return would be achieved
even with substantially lower traffic growth.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performanrc  I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
- (USM million) --
Signalling                              17.0      43.6      60.6
Power suppLy                             3.1       3.3       6.4
Communications                           8.9       9.5      18.4
Equipment rooms                          4.4        -        4.4
Supervision                              3.8        -        3.8
Coaches                                 51.1        -       51.1
Materials, etc.                         10.0        -       10.0
Base Cost                               98.3      56.4    154.7
Physical contingencies                   4.9       0.6       5.5
Price contingencies                      8.1      10.0      18.1
Total Project Cost                     111.3      67.0    178.3
Identifiable duties and taxes are about $23.4 million. Total project cost net
of duties and caxes is about $154.9 million.
Financing Plan:                            Local    Foreign    Total         Z
(US$ million) -
World Bank loan               -        67.0       67.0      38
The Government             111.3         -       111.3      62
Total Financing          111.3       67.0      178.3    100
Estimated                 Bank FY             1986    1987    1988    1989
Disbursements:
Annual                      2.8    20.3    14.9    29.0
Cumulative                  2.8    23.1    38.0    67.0
Rate of Return: 41%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5570-KG dated April 29, 1985
Map : No. IBRD 18758



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A SEOUL-BUSAN CORRIDOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $67 million to help finance the
Seoul-Busan Corridor project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, and would bear interest at the standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec 184-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following summary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed almost entireLy through foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices),
with more than 80% of the population above the poverty line, and enabled her
to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the
share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 142 to 29% while the share
of agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports, principally
manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41Z of GNP as against a mere 4% two
decades earlier and the balance of payments position had been considerably
strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early 1960s well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22Z of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
1970s.
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 1O% p.a.
until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an
average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in
proauctivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at
1.



over 18% p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large
volume of subsidized credit which was made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by the financial system under the Government's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand
while the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
6Z of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-1960s, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agriculturaL output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 20% decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighs the
10% growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980,
unemployment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel,
raw materials ancd foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Covernment attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved compet-tiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 10% in 1980 and a further 17Z in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 bilLion in 1980 (9.4X of CNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4Z
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which Qaw inflation declining to 7.3Z and
the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely because of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.
8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered hearten-
ing evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.3%) was appreci-
ably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased only
moderately, and the 6% rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales of
ships. Hence, in the first half of 1983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulate construction activities in the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Government's counter cyclical action together with the pros-
pects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the



- 3 -
private housing and real estate markets, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction activities. The recovery in export demand for
electronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that CNP grew by over 9%.
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s Korea' s
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other.  The revised version of
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5% which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 10% and a national savings rate of 29%. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.       Export performance over the last eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12% during 1983 and present indica-
tions are that this rate has been surpassed in the first half of 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1Z in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.9: and to
Japan only 0.5%. Therefore, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sentiment increases, it is very likely that Korea's exports will grow more
slowly and the pace of GNP growth slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the
impact of such eventualities by investing in domestic R&D and in upgrading the
skills of its labor force so as to be able to diversify its export base.
11.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization which raised real rates of interest for depositors of
up to 5% in 1983, partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure and partly through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities. The savings rate stood at 24.4X in 1983, up from a
recent low of 21.9% in 1980. However, a savings rate of 29% and a level of
fixed investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is to be maintained at
7.5Z without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis of past
aggregate savings performance, it is likely that the Koreans will attain their
savings target. However, the process may be more difficult in the future than
it has been in the past. There has been a marked shift up in the demand for
consumer durables in recent years.   While the burden of increasing savings
will largely be met by private savings as a result of rising income and profit
levels, Government is also taking action to raise further the contribution of
the public sector to savings.
12.       Korea has adopted price stability as a major objective in recent
years and has sought it through restrictive fiscal and monetary policies.
Money supply growth has been restricted to around 12% over 1983 and all
indications are that the restraint will continue over the next few years. So
far, the measures adopted seem to have been successful. Consumer prices rose
by only 3.4% in 1983 as compared to 7.2% in 1982 and 18% in 1979. Preliminary
results suggest that 1984 will be a year of low inElation as well. Korea's
ability to maintain a low rate of inflation in future years will depend upon



its ability to sustain sound fiscal and monetary policies and to keep wages
from outpacing the growth of productivity.
13.       External Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($40.4 billion
in 1983, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-term
debt, remains a manageable 20%. The share of short-term maturities in total
debt is, however, high (at 35%), and is a cause for concern. This aspect of
its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international financial markets,
which has led to high and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans
to hold their new foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986
and to seek balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. Our
assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that while a
significant proportion of official assistance should be continued, Korea is
likely to move increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet external
capital requirements.  This assessment was endorsed recently by the Consulta-
tive Group for Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in Seoul. At that meeting,
the Consultative Group, recognizing the rapidly evolving character of Korea's
economy and the trends in external assistanc2, concluded that its role as a
forum for aid coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital is
now being fulfilLed by Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the Group
should be formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly
indicated its need and its intention to continue with a substantial program of
borrowing from the Bank and its wish to continue with an active economic
dialogue that would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of
economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       As of March 31, 1985, Kor2a had received 75 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,311.54 million in loans
and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,087.17 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of March 31, 1985. Progress
on project implementation is generalLy satisfactory. Although implementation
delays - mainly in irrigation, highways and population projects - had occurred
due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions resulting
from cost overruns during a period of high domestic inflation, they have been
addressed and resolved. The Government has taken measures to increase local
funding of Bank-financed projects.  However, as the Government's budgetary
situation continues to be tight, the status and plans for counterpart contri-
butions will remain an integral part of country implementation reviews held
jointly with the Government. Nevertheless, despite the recent delays, Korea's
disbursement rate remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
15.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making
loans which are aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institu-
tional issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made



possible by relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is proceeding well.
Sector loans have already been made for Highways, Education and Industrial
Finance. The Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which
complement this approach by concentrating on issues that have macro and multi-
sectoral impact.
16.       In 1984 the Bank undertook an Agricultural Sector Survey in Korea
which generally recommended that Government should stimulate nonfarm employ-
ment in rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the sector, and adopt
a broader and longer-term view of agricultural problems. The credit project
which was approved on May 21 would focus on agricultural credit and hence
would promote agricultural development through financing private sector
investments covering a wide range of agricultural production and rural income
diversification activities. It would also address the institutional develop-
ment issues of NACF, the main credit institution serving agriculture.
17.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far, trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
and a second proposed project support the Government's ongoing program of
financial sector reform. The technology enhancement objectives of the
Government are being pursued with Bank support through two projects approved
in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) which
finances research, development and engineering and the other for the machinery
industries which is designed to provide financial and technical assistance to
raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms. Future lending
planned for industry in Korea would include continued support for financial
sector reform, for KTDC (second loan approved on October 25, 1984) and for the
small and medium-industry subsector, through the SmaLl and Medium Industry
Project approved on April 16, 1985, which is expected to play an important
role in the growth of the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the
next stage of development of Korean industry.
18.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues suc-I as improving the integration of invest-
ment pLanning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related .o
regulation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve
macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as
relative fuel prices, are being handled within the context ot the second SAL.
19.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, would support measures



- 6 -
designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science
and technology education. The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector
involves support for three regional development projects, two low-income
housing projects and two water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea
to increase the availability of basic services such as housing, water supply
and transportation in the cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency
of urban areas. The Seoul Urban Transportation Project was approved on April
16, 1985, and new projects in local government finance and water supply are
under preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-
building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving
gradually to a sector approach.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR1 AND THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
20.       Throughout much of the past 20 years, Korea's transport system has
been strained by the demands of rapid growth and it has required massive
public sector investments in transport infrastructure. The Government has
been allocating up to 23% of its total capital expenditure to expand and
modernize transport infrastructure from 1967 to 1977 decreasing to about 15%
in the Fourth (1977-81) and Fifth Plans (1982-86). Investments have been
concentrated on the Seoul-Busan axis where most industrial development is
taking place and on other corridors serving the northeastern and southeastern
parts of Korea.
21.       Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic are illus-
trated by traffic statistics for the 1961 to 1982 period. Freight traffic
moving by rail, although showing growth in absolute terms, fell from 88X of
total ton-km to 37%, while the road and coastal shipping shares increased from
8% to 36% and from 4Z to 27%, respectively. For passenger traffic, the rail
share of total passenger-km fell from 53% to 22% over the same period, while
the road share increased from 45% to 75%. These changes reflect both the
economic advantages of the various modes and the different growth rates
experienced between industries served, as rail and coastal shipping
increasingly were concentrated on long distances and bulk commodities while
road transport handled the shcrt distances and more general cargo. In
addition, rapidly expanding personal consumption generated large incrtases in
personal travel. This travel is made mainly by public transport such as
express trains and buses, since high taxation of private cars and gasoline has
limited motorization to a level significantly below that of other countries
with income levels comparable to those of Korea.
22.       The Government of Korea's (GOK) basic objective in the past has been
to increase the capacity of the system in line with projected traffic growth
and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has been largely achieved.
The present system is reasonably balanced and there is little uneconomic allo-
cation of traffic among the various modes. Investments in transportation have
been linked to broader concerns regarding Korea's spatial and economic
planning. For example, considerable efforts have been made to develop new
industrial complexes in coastal areas, to take advantage of Korea' s natural
potential in harbors and to exploit low-cost coastal shipping while avoiding
excessive congestion on road and rail. Similarly, in its efforts to ensure



that appropriate development priorities were reflected in the allocation of
scarce transportation means among the competing claims, the Government has
maintained fairly tight regulations in the sector, with a restrictive
licensing system and administered pricing for all transport activities. These
tight regulations which have not always enhanced efficiency in transport, are
under review.
23.       Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been com-
plemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the transpor-
tation system, through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to
plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilicies and services. In the
public sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (HOC), the Korea
Highway Corporation (KHC), and the Korea Maritime and Port Administration
(KMPA) have been established or strengthened in many instances with increasing
financial and managerial responsibility as semi-autonomous public corpora-
tions. In the private sector, a highLy efficient contractor system has
evolved for civil works which reflects both the insistence on competitive
bidding in the award of contracts as a matter of policy, and the large volume
of construction that has been carried out in Korea during the past 20 years.
The-e are now some 500 firms capable of handling a broad range of public
works. Furthermore, with Government encouragement, the major construction
firms have successfully expanded their construction activities overseas; in
1981, Korean contractors won overseas contracts valued at over US$13 billion.
Transport Sector Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
24.       The Government's main goals for the transport sector as stated
in the Fifth Five-Year Rconomic and Social Development Plan (FFYP) (1982-86)
are to: (a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing equipment
and optimizing investments in the sector; (b) enhance transport efficiency by
improving intermodal traffic allocation and conserving energy; and (c) streng-
then maintenance activities. These goals are appropriate and timely. The
economic slowdown of 1979/81 has provided a two-fold lesson for the transpor-
tation sector. On the one hand, the timing of investments needed to sustain
further improvements in transport capacity and quality of service will have to
be closely linked to the growth of traffic for each mode. On Lhe other hand,
the capacity of the public sector to finance the necessary upgrading and
expansion of infrastructure and facilities in transportation will be
constrained by foreign borrowing as well as budgetary limitations.
25.       For the medium term, the Fifth Five-Year Plan projects a GNP growth
rate of 7.5% p.a. over the period 1982-86, with a corresponding increase in
transport demand estimated at about 47 billion passenger-km and 10 billion
ton-km, respectively 50% and 30X above fourth plan period outcomes.  Invest-
ments in transportation (public and private) are expected to increase by about
45% and remain at close to 14% of the total planned outlay as in the fourth
plan. They will amount to some US$16.3 billion, calculated at 1980 prices and
exchange rates. However, investments in subways and aviation will absorb a
larger fraction of the total as will road vehicles and ships. Hence, real
investment in the railway system, road and port infrastructure would increase
bv less than 20% above fourth plan outlays.



- 8 -
26.       A Bank transport sector mission reviewed the transport investments
proposed in the FFYP and identified the policy and institutional issues
impeding efficiency in the sector. The mission concluded (in the Transport
Sector Issues Survey dated December 27, L983) that, although most of the
transport investments proposed under the FFYP pursue development priorities
which are appropriate, considerably more could be done to increase the
productivity of existing facilities and equipment. With the increasingly
complex traffic patterns and higher traffic densities, the growing require-
ments for maintenance of the expanded system, and the need to conserve energy,
the mission foresaw an even greater need to maximize efficiency and make
optimal use of limited investment outlays in this capital intensive sector.
The mission recommended focussing on planning, regulation and pricing, and
energy conservation as the three main areas requiring specific attention in
the current more demanding economic environment. Noteworthy are measures
introduced under the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-KO of US$230 million in
1984) to improve (a) road investment planning; (b) energy efficiency in
transport; and (c) regulation and pricing in road transport. Progress so far
is satisfactory. The proposed project will help in increasing utilization of
existing rail capacity, improve efficiency and stimulate inter-modal
complementarity.
Bank's Role
27.       The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Korean authorities in pursuing their transport objectives. Since 1962, the
Bank Group has assisted the KNR through eight railway projects amounting to
US$556 million. The first seven projects have been satisfactorily completed
and the eighth was substantially modified to account for slower imports of
coal. This last project for Coal and Cement Distribution is to strengthen the
capacity of the railways, ports and inland terminals to cope with the expected
increase in transport of these commodities, resulting partly from large coal
imports substituting for oil. Bank-supported investments have concentrated on
improved capacity and service for long distance passenger and bulk cargo
transport. The Bank has also maintained an active dialogue on the railway's
financial situation, investment plans, level and structure of tariffs. After
some deterioration in the 1970s, the Government agreed to implement a finan-
cial recovery plan for KNR as part of the Seventh Railway Project. A revised
plan, following the severe downturn of the economy in the early 1980s, was
agreed upon.
28.       Through six highway projects since 1969, significant policy changes
have been effected relating to the sector which include the adoption of more
appropriate road standards, revision of road regulations and a modified
government plicy, on toll roads.  Substantial Bank assistance has also been
extended for port development, mainly related to the introduction of container
facilities at Busan. Pricing policy and the regulatory framework in the
transportation sectjr have been a consistent feature of the dialogue with the
Government for many years. Emphasis was also given by the Bank in the 1970s
to support the Government's efforts to establish agencies such as KNR and KKPA
on a sound financial basis, with investment programs tied to appropriate
tariffs and charges for railways and ports.



- 9 -
29.       It is expected that the Bank's policy dialogue would be strengthened
in future years through the increasing emphasis being given to a sector and
subsector approach to transport lending in Korea. The recently approved
Highway Sector Project will deepen and broaden our involvement in the road
subsector by extending assistance for the Ministries of Construction (MOC), of
Home Affairs (MOHA), of Transport (MOT) and of Energy and Resources (HOER).
This involvement provides the Bank with aa opportunity to improve coordination
between those agencies and to strengthen the basis for another possible
highway subsector loan. Similarly, a recently completed ports container site
location study examined several alternatives where container facilities could
be developed to handle the nation's traffic through the next decade and may
lead to a third ports loan. For railways, the Bank has traditionally made
sector type loans, financing time slices of KNR's investment plans with the
sixth and seventh railway projects covering respectively 1978/79 and 1980/81
investments.
30.       Besides these subsector operations, the Bank is assisting the
Government in developing multimodal projects. The first was the earlier-
mentioned Coal and Cement Distribution Project involving railways, ports and
inland terminals. It will be followed by projects directed towards increasing
the capacity of the system in certain high priority areas and corridors rather
than expanding the system as a whole. The Bank is assisting in developing an
integrated multimodal study to design investments to help meet the very high
transport demand in the suburban areas of Seoul (Kyeonggi Region multimodal
transport study) where a dense network of facilities is needed. The comple-
mentarity of the various modes will be promoted by developing interconnecting
terminals to optimize the use of this suburban transport network. Another
multi-modal transport study carried out from 1983 to 1985 concerns the Seoul-
Busan transport corridor and the feasibility of a high speed rail line between
Seoul and Busan; the proposed project was identified in the study as a first
step to increase line capacity; subsequent steps might include a high speed
train, which would run on a separate, dedicated track, and further road trans-
port improvements. A third study to follow later is being discussed with the
Government covering the southeast coastal region from Suncheon to Pohang,
where most heavy industries are concentrated and new developments are being
considered at Kwangyang Bay.
The Railway Subsector: Korean NationaL Railroad
31.       The Korean National Railroad (KNR) was established on December 31,
1961 as a quasi-business, government-owned enterprise and is controlled by the
Ministry of Transportation. The initial capital comprised railroad assets,
net of certain liabilities, transferred at estimated fair value at January
1,1962. Actual title to real property vests in the Government of the Republic
of Korea. By statute, KNR has the right of use or disposition of property
either originally transferred to it or later acquired, and the right to
receive rental or sale proceeds. Land may be appropriated by the Government
and dedicated to certain public uses without compensation to KNR.
32.       The Administrator of KNR is appointed by the Government to assume
the function of General Manager. The Administrator is assisted bv a Deputy
Administrator who comes from within KNR and is in charge of the day-to-day



- 10 -
operations. KKR's management enjoys reasonable operational and managerial
freedom.
33.       It is planned that in 1987 KKR will be converted to a public
corporation. It would be empowered to incur debt, fix the emoluments of its
staff and control its own budget. Management consultants funded by the Bank
under the Fifth Railway Project (IlDl-KO) have advised on the steps necessary
to effect the transition and on the organizational changes to be adopted, and
an implementation program has been designed and is now in progress.
Staffing and Training
34.       KNR presently employs about 40,000 staff of whom about 34,500 are
permanent employees with Government civil service status. The rest comprise
semi-permanent and temporary personnel employed in workshops and on track
works on a seasonal basis. Staff productivity in terms of traffic units per
employee has been rising in recent years and is now one of the highest in the
world; it reached 823,000 units per employee in 1983 as against some 500,000
typical in European railways. This is due partly to the dense urban and
intercity passenger travel and heavy bulk mineral traffic and partly to KNR's
staff training, discipline and professionalism.
35.       Training facilities comprise a Railroad School, where courses are
offered to recruits at both high school and college levels, and a training
center with regional branches at which various types of training (including
management development) are provided to current staff. Previous Bank projects
have financed equipment and materials for practical training, and overseas
training in specialized subjects for selected staff.
Accounting and Audit
36.       KNR operates a double-entry accrual based accounting system.  Its
financial statements are prepared according to generally accepted accounting
principles applicable in the United States.
37.       KNR's audit arrangements consist of a review (according to standards
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) per-
formed by an independent Korean public accounting firm acceptable to the
Bank. The reports, which under previous loan agreements are to be received by
the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year, have been tardy
in the past but are now timely.
Railway Facilities
38.       The system consists of 3,100 route-km of standard gauge (1.435 m)
and 47 km of narrow gauge (0.76 m) lines; 760 km are double track and the
remainder single track. The major sections of double track line are Gyeongbu
(Seoul-Pusan, 491 km) and Chungbug (Jochiweon - Bongyang, 110 km). 428 rouLe-
km are electrified.
39.       Centralized traffic control (CTC) has been installed in the Seoul
urban area and on the heavily trafficked electrified single line Seoul-



- 11 -
Jecheon. Under the Seventh Project (Loan 1836-KO), CTC is being installed on
the section Yeongju-Cyeongju of the Jung Ang line (about 163 km deferred from
the sixth railway project) and the Tae Baeg line (about 107 km). Another 127
km of CTC is being installed on another part of the Taebaeg line under the
Coal and Cement Distribution Project (Loan 2267-KO). The Gyeongbu line, which
is the subject of the proposed project, has an automatic block system (ABS),
while on other lines electric interlocking or token block systems are used.
For safety, an automatic train stopping system is being installed.
40.       KKR's motive power fleet at the end of 1983 comprised 449 diesel and
90 electric locomotives and 113 diesel rail cars.  320 electric railcars
provide commuter services. The fleet is modern and in good condition. Roll-
ing stock comprises about 2,100 passenger cars, and about 16,000 freight cars.
41.      K[R maintains a number of workshops, of which the main ones are at
Seoul (electric Locomotives, diesel and electric railcars, passenger cars and
freight cars), Yeongdeungpo (passenger cars and freight cars), Incheon
(passenger cars and freight cars), and Busan (diesel locomotives, passenger
cars and freight cars). Steam locomotives have been completely phased out. A
new rolling stock workshop has been constructed at Daejeon; the freight car
shop is just completed and the passenger car shop is in use.
Traffic
42.       In 1984 KNR's intercity passenger services carried 165 million
passengers an average distance of 108 km. In recent years, intercity traffic
has declined from a peak reached in 1980. The total however conceals a shift
of traffic from ordinary trains to expresses, whose ridership increased from
40 million in 1979 to over 55 million in 1984, an annual rate of 7%. The
average journey distance also increased. Suburban traffic on the Seoul area
SMESRS has also been growing at about 7% p.a. For the future, growth of
express passenger and SMESRS is projected to continue at 6Z and 72 respec-
tively (passenger-km terms), while ordinary traffic will continue to decline.
Freight traffic has grown at average annual rates of 6.7% in tons and 6% in
tons-km since 1966. Major commodities which contributed to these increases
were coal and cement. Bulk commodities such as these and ore, oil, ferti-
lizer, and grain accounted for over 80% of KNR's total freight ton-km in 1984,
up from 69% in 1966. Apart from some military and KNR's own transport, the
remainder consists mainly of general cargo. In 1984, freight traffic totalled
53.7 million tons and the average freight haul was 230 km.
Investment Plan
43.      K[R plans its investments on a five-year cycle coterminous with the
national five-year plan. The current plan covers the period 1982-86.
According to this plan, $634 million will be spent during the period on
projects with a total value of $1.3 billion, which will be initiated during
the period or were already in progress at the beginning of it. Of this total,
approximately $465 million (36%) relates to renewal or major maintenance of
track, equipment and structures. The principal new works are double tracking
of the Honam line at a cost of $256 million and standardization of the Su-In
line at a cost of $128 million. Project selection procedures are well



- 12 -
developed and EPB approval is required before new projects can be included in
the plan. KNR's investment plan, and potential new projects, are reviewed by
the Bank in the course of supervision of ongoing projects. The Government has
agreed that substantial changes to the investment plan, involving either an
increase or a decrease of more than $58 million equivalent, would only be made
with the Bank's concurrence (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
Tariffs
44.       KNR's tariffs are uniform throughout the system and are regulated by
the Government. Following major upward adjustments of both freight rates
(45%) and passenger fares (40%) in 1980, regular annual adjustments have been
effected to ensure that rates fully reflect the effect of inflation. Accord-
ing to data produced from KNR's traffic costing system, all major services are
operating at or above breakeven on a fully-distributed cost basis, with the
notable exception of ordinary passenger train services, which are operated at
a substantial loss in furtherance of government's social policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
45.       The proposed project was included by the Government about three
years ago in the investment program of KNR for implementation in 1983.
Following a review by the Bank, the Government decided to postpone the
investment pending a complete review of investment needs in the Seoul-Busan
corridor over the long term. Subsequently, the "Review of Long-term Transport
Investment Needs in the Seoul-Busan Corridor", a study financed under the
Seventh Railway Project (1836-KO) and prepared by the Government and Bank
staff assisted by consultants, assigned the highest priority to the proposed
project and recommended it as a first phase rail investment in the corridor.
In September 1984, the Government requested a Bank loan to finance the
project. The project was appraised in February 1985. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. from April 22 through April 26, 1985, with a Korean
delegation led by Mr. Uhm Rak-Yong, Director, Economic Cooperation Division,
Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5570-KO) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The project would make a direct contribution to the Government's
overall plan for increasing transport capacity in the vital Seoul-Busan
coridor, and also gives the Bank the opportunity to pursue the Bank's
dialogue with the Government and KNR on the institutional strengthening of
KNR; multi-modal transport planning; and the longer term investment program
which is being planned for this major transport corridor. The project would
also make a significant contribution to the safety of operations, provide
increased capacity to the existing line, and postpone other, more costly,
investments.



- 13 -
Project Scope and Description
47.       The project forms part of a program (KNR's Management Improvement
Program) for the development of rail traffic in the Seoul-Busan corridor over
the next few years. This improvement program is designed to reduce losses
incurred for ordinary train services as well as to improve other already
profitable services by decreasing the unit cost of services oftered. The
program comprises: (a) institutional and policy measures aimed mainly at
ensuring KNR's long-term viability; (b) measures to improve intermodal com-
plementarity and rail-way competitiveness; and (c) investments in track
signalling to increase capacity and in related rolling stock and equipment in
line with transport demand. The proposed loan will include funds to finance
investments only for parts of (c) together with associated technical assis-
tance and training. KNR and the Government will fund the other investments.
48.       Parts (a) and (b) of the management improvement program will be
implemented during the 1985-88 period. The main ingredients of the program
include:
(a) In the short term (one to two years)
Ci) The further discontinuation of ordinary trains in 1985, (4 were
discontinued in 1984, and 22 in 1983). EPB has to approve the
proposed plan;
(ii) the closure of one uneconomic line and the conversion to
private sidings of two others;
(iii) the downgrading of fifteen full service railway stations into
"simple stations" which will result in significant reductions
in operating costs. Also, the privatization of ticket selling
at such stations will further lower staffing costs;
(iv) an increase in the Seoul-Busan Corridor speed from 120 kph to
130 kph, and also in the number of air-conditioned coaches to
improve capacity and service to passengers;
(v) an increase in passenger train frequency by decreasing train
interval from 30 minutes to 20 minutes;
(vi)  tariff increases this year on freight service and passenger
services by 5Z, subject to obtaining EPB approval, and the
introduction of flexible (volume dependent) freight tariffs.
(For the SMESRS service, tariffs were increased by 23.7% on
August 18, 1984);
(b)  In the longer term (two to five years)
(vii) the formation of joint ventures with publicly held real estate
development companies to rebuild 4 major stations (Seoul,
Daejon, Daegu and Yongsan) as commercial centers;



- 14 -
(viii)  the introduction of bus feeder and car rental services, to
enable KNR to provide a more complete service and improve KNR's
competitiveness in relation to bus transport;
(ix)  marketing container services, pickup and delivery of freight
parcels;
(z) further reductions in staff through an automatic fare collec-
tion system and a central traffic control system.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
take all steps necessary to facilitate the implementation of KNR's Management
Improvement Program for the Seoul-Busan corridor, and will consult with the
Bank, from time to time to review and evaluate progress under the program
(Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement).
49.       The project represents part (c) of the above-mentioned program, and
would consist of resignalling of the Seoul-Busan double-track line between
Suweon and Daegu (approximately 290 km) and installation of a CTC system that
would increase capacity to 170 trains per day. Power supply and communication
systems would also be supplied as well as train indicators, buildings, super-
vision and training. CTC already exists between Seoul and Suweon where it was
installed some years back in connection with the opening of suburban services
on that part of the line.  Between Daegu and Busan the signalling system (ABS)
has been recently upgraded and therefore CTC installation can be postponed for
a few years. In installing the new system, the block length will be reduced
significantly from 2 km to 0.6 km, thus providing substantial capacity
increase by enabling a shorter distance between trains. While the existing
system is old and substandard, the new system will also be more reliable and
safer. Related rolling stock, equipment and materials to increase the number
of trains in the corridor, are also included in the project and will be
financed by the Government.
Cost Estimates and Financing
50.       The cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at $178.3 million of which $67 million (or about 38Z) is the
direct and indirect foreign exchange component. The base cost is expressed in
January 1985 prices. The project cost estimates are based on completed
detailed designs. Quantities were derived from final engineering, and unit
prices are based on current world market prices for equipment to be
imported. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 5Z on locally
procured goods and civil works, and 1X on imported equipment. Expected price
increases over the project period amount to 11.3% of total base costs plus
physical contingencies. Price increases for foreign costs were estimated at
5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1987 and 1988. Government efforts to
curtail inflation are likely to hold domestic inflation somewhat below these
levels and, therefore, price increases for local costs were estimated at 2.5%
in 1985, 5Z in 1986 and 5.5% in 1987 and 1988.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $67 million would finance 43Z of total
project costs excluding taxes, or 38% of the gross costs of $178.3 million.



- 15 -
It would cover the foreign exchange cost of the signalling component of the
project and associated technical assistance and training. The Government will
finance materials, including related rolling stock and equipment and construc-
tion costs amounting to $111.3 million equivalent from its own resources. The
financing plan was reviewed during negotiations and the Government contribu-
tion confirmed. The Bank loan would be made to the Government and the
proceeds will be onlent by the Government to KNR through a subsidiary loan
agreement at the same interest and terms as the Bank loan. The signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
52.       The project will be implemented by KNR, which has experience of this
type of work. About 246 km of the network have already been equipped with a
similar CTC signalling system, and these works have been carried out
competently by KNR, on time, and without cost overruns. Detailed designs have
already been completed for all project works. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1989, and the Closing Date of the proposed loan would be
December 31, 1989.
53.       Civil works will not be financed by the Bank.  All civil works con-
tracts will be awarded in accordance with the Government's procurement proced-
ures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of equipment financed
by the Bank loan will be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement, except for a number of small
items worth less than $200,000 per order and totalling less than $3 million,
which would be purchased on the basis of quotations received from three
suppliers eligible under the Bank's guidelines. All packages for equipment
above $100,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. In bid evaluation for equipment contracts to be let through
ICB, Korean manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15X of the
CIF cost of competing imports, or the relevant prevailing level of customs
duties, whichever is lower. For items of equipment and materials not financed
by the Bank loan, Government procurement procedures will apply.
54.       Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100%
of the foreign expenditures of imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of
the ex-factory expenditures of locally manufactured equipment and materials;
and (c) 100% of the cost of technical assistance and overseas training.
55.       Domestic transport from port or factory would not be eligible for
Bank financing. Any savings under the loan would be cancelled unless other-
wise agreed with the Bank. Disbursements against training and contracts for
goods and services valued at less than $50,000 each would be made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). To facilitate disbursements for project
expenditures, a revolving fund will be established with an initial deposit of
$6 million, equivalent to about four months of expected expenditures. Docu-
mentation supporting the SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank but would be
kept in the project office in Seoul and be made available for review by the
Bank's supervision missions.



- 16 -
Financial Performance of KNR
56.       Over the last five years, KNR has reported steadily improving
financial resuLts, in terms of growth of operating revenue and net income and
improvement in its key financial performance ratios. Factors particularly
important in these results have been (a) timely and adequate action on
tariffs, which have fully kept pace with inflation since 1980, when a major
increase was effected to bring rates more into line with costs; (b) tight
control over operating costs, which in real terms per-traffic-unit remained
constant over the period; and (c) marketing and other measures designed to
shift traffic (especially passenger traffic) towards the most profitable
services.
57.       KNR's efforts would have been even more successful had it been able
to make more progress in reducing the operating losses on ordinary trains.
These services - which operate on main corridors as well as on branch lines -
are run at considerably less than cost as a result of government policy
requiring the provision of a basic rail transportation service at prices
affordable to low income groups.  The Government partiaLly compensates KNR for
these losses, but intends that KNR should cover the balance of the loss from
efficiency improvements and profits on other services. Thus, for example, in
1982 the ordinary trains lost $59 million, of which $41 million was reimbursed
by the Government in 1983 and the balance of $18 million remained as a charge
on KNR's other services. KNR's management has already moved to contain the
losses to the extent possible, for exampLe by diverting such traffic, reducing
the frequency of ordinary trains, and eliminating certain stops. The scope
for further such measures is now limited. Carrying the residual loss on
ordinary trains has strained KNR's cash flow in recent years. Since 1980,
operational cash flow has been barely sufficient to cover debt service
although the trend, like that of profitability, is improving and debt service
coverage in 1984 reached 1.2. Most of the capital expenditure of the past
four years has been funded by debt.
58.       Assuming a continuation of present government policies on ordinary
trains and with tariff adjustments on other services broadly in line with
inflation (subject to some detailed adjustments to encourage traffic growth o:.
the most profitable operations), KNR's financial results will maintain the
improvement shown in the recent past. Operating revenue should show continued
growth throughout the period. However, net income, although positive, would
decline gradually from 1986 because ot increasing interest charges on loan
debt. The liquidity position will remain tight, although debt service can be
expected to be adequately covered throughout the period. KNR's investments
will continue to be funded mainly by debt, although a limited self-financing
capability will develop during the period. Government capital contributions
are expected to be phased out. Under previous loans, KNR has agreed not to
incur new long-term debt unless debt service would be covered at least 1.1
times; this agreement has been carried forward under the proposed Loan
(Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
59.       The Bank recently agreed with KNR to adopt as the prixcipal indi-
cator of financial performance a rate of return calculated on the basis of the
performance of its commercial services without taking into account the losses



- 17 -
arising on ordinary passenger trains, which are largely beyond its control.
On this revised basis, the Government has agreed that KNR should earn an
annual rate of return of not less than 4% (in 1985), 5% (in 1986), 5.5% (in
1987) and 6Z (in 1988 and thereafter) as under the previous loans (Section
4.02 of the Loan Agreement). In calculating the rate of return, KKR would
exclude those identifiable assets which are specific or exclusive to the
operation of ordinary trains; in practice these would be the rolling stock
which is deployed in that service. The above targets for the current year and
1986 are likely to be met. Later in the decade more substantial tariff action
or efficiency gains may be required. This is also suggested by the declining
current ratio after 1987. KNR has agreed under previous loans to attain a
current ratio of 1.5 by the end of 1988 and this agreement will be carried
forward under the proposed loan (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). KNR's
progress will continue to be monitored through project supervisidn.
60.       In the meanwhile, a study will be undertaken, with consultant
inputs, which will examine: (a) the effectiveness of ordinary trains in
providing the service to low-income travellers as required by the Government;
(b) the possibility of providing this, or alternative services at lower cost;
(c) the scope and mechanism of compensation to KNR for any consequential
operating losses it incurs; and (d) the impact of these losses on KNR's
progress to eventual public corporation status. When the results of this
study (to be completed by the end of 1986) are available, the Bank will review
with Government and KNR the implications for KNR's financial results and the
appropriateness of its performance measurements. The Government and KNR have
recognized that the cost of the ordinary train service should at least be held
to a minimum level and, preferably, should be progressively reduced.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The present signalling system is in such a state of deterioration
that a major overhaul is needed to stop the rapidly increasing failure rate.
Without such an overhaul, the further increase of failures would gradually
reduce the line capacity by disrupting the schedules of trains and would also
have repercussions on other parts of the line. Safety standards, already low
by international criteria, would deteriorate seriously. The cost of the
needed overhaul is about 80% of the cost of the new system. The balance of
20Z is attributable to the centralized traffic control system and block
shortening that would permit upgrading the line's capacity by about one-
third. The investment required for overhaul and the additional investment for
upgrading have been evaluated separately.
62.       The project benefits are estimated to generate an overall return of
41% on the resignalling investment. The return on the overhaul part of the
project is 39% and the return on the capacity increase part of the project is
47%. The estimation is based on the assumption that without the project,
express train passengers only would be diverted to road, but it is likely that
KNR would in fact reduce the less profitable services first. This likely
overestimatien is, however, more than balanced by the fact that no account was
taken of the increase in productivity of equipment operating at a higher
average speed and which will require proportionately less rolling stock to
accommodate higher traffic. Hence the operating costs would be reduced,



- 18 -
generating additional savings that have not been quantified. Of the increase
of productivity, only the staff reduction of about 150 has been accounted for.
63.       The main area of risk for this type of project is traffic fore-
casting. However, the sensitivity analysis shows that under significantly
lower rates the EUR remains satisfactory. This conclusion is true even where
a high speed train running on an alternative track is assumed to be introduced
at the theoretically earliest possible date and operates in competition for
passengers.
Environment
64.       No negative impact on the environment is expected from the project.
The project will contribute to the Government's efforts to make rail transport
an attractive alternative to the use of private cars, thereby minimizing
pollution.
PART V - LECAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section rII of
Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 16, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                          ANNEX I
TAILS   L                                       m mA_ I
WIZA. lEZISLIC or     - SOCIAL TEECAoCs MTA lST
M. EEPUBLIC oir 0ou1c                           cNiCEE  AVERAGED) /a
196A              ix-t           ASIA A ncCMC          LAT. AtAA cAR
AM C      s  B. NO
TOTA                               98.5       9.5      9 B.5
ASIICLT'13AL                       20.4       23.2     22.4
cw  aER arm   043                    1.0        430.0   1910.0            101.2                   2108.6
(EILaCM AS  OF OIL EMWAU)         143.0      493.0   1104.0             567.3                   ns.s
IOFULAITOU.HZD-RAA (TSCAM)    25003.0    322U.0  39336.0
DIME POEULATIO CZ OF TOTAL)        27.7       U.l      61.3              34.7                    66.
-             V~~~~OFDLATIM  IIWECTXISS
POPMATION IN EM 2000 (HIKL)                           50.5
STATIOAA   MWLATIO  (MILL)                            70.2
VOOIUATION MOCNIlTUl                                   1.7
POPDLATICE  EIRT
Fm  sQ. ML                      233.9      327.4    393.2             261.9                    35.7
III SQ. E1L a;S. LAND           1223.2    1387.3   1730.3            1735.1                    92.4
VPOVLAT01 SE STRICTIRC (C)
0-14 us-   42.9                            42.1      33.1             39.0                    39.9
15-64 R15                        53.7       54.6     62.8              57.6                    56.0
65 ANID AV                        3.3        3.3      4.1               3.3                     4.1
PODLATICH C0I1  RaTE (C)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.5       1.7              2.3                     2.4
031*5                             4.7        6.7      5.1               4.3                     3.6
CUDE DEEM  AT (PEt TIM)            42.8       30.4     22.8              30.1                    31.3
.OmS     RATE (CEZ TEOWS)          13.7        9.6      6.4              9.5                     8.1
=05  1MIU0UCTTOU AE                 2.8        2.1      1.5               2.0                    2.0
FAILYX. FLADNIII
ACCEPIS. AMNAL (Suos)              --      671.0    686.0 IC_
mm5 (2 OF RAE  VomEm)                       25.0     54.0              52.7                    40.3
N Or P1OW IROn. PUI CAPITA
(50-71-100)                       as.o       n.o     us-a              123.0                  114.3
PER cap srmrt or
CALORIES aZ OF EEQUIREUCTS)      98.0      109.0    U26.0             114.4                   110.6
MoTts (CAM  PER am)              57.0       640      74.0              57.0                    67.3
Or MICK ANDIAL AND PULSE        7.0        8.0      14.0 Id          14.1                    34.1
CLD (AzS 1-4) EAlS RATE             8.6        4.0      1.9              7.2                     5.7
LIt SEXECT. AT UAiM (CTEAS)        53_9       S9.1     67.3             60.4                    64.7
IlNNS MORT. RATE (PER TES)         78.3       50.1     32.0             66.3                    60.6
,C   TO SAFZ IAM  (V0)
TOTAL                            12.1       58.O      71.0 1.          37.0                    65.4
Am"                              18.6       84.0     *5.07;            Ste                     7-1
IDEAL                             9.5       38.0      S4.9             26.4                    46.2
ACCSS TO EXCEZ  DXSPOSAL
(Z OF PO70)ATION)
TOTAL M.                                    25.0      64.0 IC          41.3                    S2.9
QUIIA                              ..       59.0     80.0 IC           47.4                    67.0
JAL                                            - ..   SO.O7           33_3                    24S
VOIOLATIOE0 PR FSICIA            3540.0     2240.0   1440.0            7749.4                 1917.7
Pe. P   UWSSIC  ERSO             3240.0 1   1790.0 /a 350-0            2460.                  815.8
POP. FM HODSPIAL BED
TOTAL                          2510.0     1950.0    640.0 lb         1064.2                   367.2
0315                           1230.0 /f  1100.0    750.0             631.2                   411.5
RIUAL                               .         ..       ..            2594.6                  2636.3
AHIXSSIU  MR  PA      E              . W-     14.9       ..              270                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE Or tOSEaoLD
TOTAL                             5.6        5.2       4.5               --
JRBUI                             5.4        4.9      4.4                .
IDAAL                             5.6        5.5      4.7                ..                       .
AVERAGE HO. OF PENS0IS/lOO
TOTAL                             2.5        2.3       2.0 Ic            .        
UtBAN                             2.8        2.7      2.1 7              ..                     ..
IDEL                              2.4        2.2      2.0z7              .. T.
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF DOWULIC)
TOTAL                            28.4       49.9        .-              .-                       . .
BaAll                            67.3       92.4        ..              ..                      ..
ROEL                             12.4       29.9      64.9 Id            ,.



-20-                                            ANNEX I
T A I L *  3A                                     lAO! 2
0A   oIU rlC O   -   3M. iDicATO  DATA 
OF                   RISUNC   OODS  0IGNRfD AVWU )  a
MOS3                     (303? BE=   ISTllAZ) 
1iO.t     IBM    INC riU           IUDOLZ.  WONS           Him=3231*
RSUISA!1&       ASXA A PACIFXC          LAT. AXCA & CIi
ADJUITR   U         uAo0
pluN!    TOTAL.                     94.0       103.0    107.0              102.0                     105.4
ALZ                      99.0       104.0    10.0                105.9                    106.3
1311S                    61.0       103.0    1005.0              91.2                     104.5
SCONDAU  TOMSL                      27.0       42.0      U5.0               46.0                     43.2
HALZ                     36.0        50.0      39.0               41.7                     42.3
lQLU3                   14.0        32.0      60.0              43.1                      44.5
VOCATIOUL CZ Or SICOIIDAR)            14.2        14.3      18.6              17.5                      33.6
1011r.TIACll RATIO
PUIKARY                            M3.0         57.0     46.0               31.3                      30.1
810C03343                           34.0        37.0     39.0               23.5                     16.-
ADULT LIUtC  AE CZ)                   70.6        17.6     96.0               72.9                     79.5
PASIhIC CARI/TNOUIAND PM               0.5        1.9       6.5               10.1                     46.0
RADXO RICEZVUS/TBOOIAND P01           31.2       124.4    393.5              113.6                    225.6
TV REcIIvl=/INOULD POP                 0.3        13.0    L64.7               50.1                     107.2
IIPAPS   (DAMLY C1UAL
ITS')  CXR00AUW
St DIOIISAD PWEATM                  68.1       136.3    173.1               53.9                      63.5
Cnai ANNAL  _c       Y4.1                          5.2      1.7 7;3.4                                   2.8
TOTAL LA0 VOIC  (mWuS)              8304.0    11285.0  15414.0
JErALR CFIRECIM)                    26.1        32.7     32.5               33.5                     23.2
ACLURE (1C2CEN1)                    66.0        50.0     34.0               52.2                     31.5
13D0011  (PERCER                     9.0        17.0     29.0               17.9                     23.9
AKIpOiTOU RATE (PEPCEUT)
TOTAL                               33.2        35.0     39.2               36.7                      32.2
HALE                                49.5        46.8     52.4               50.9                     49.3
7ZKALZ                              17.2        23.0     25.7               26.6                      15.2
ECSOUOKC DINDICID   RATIO              1.4         1.3      0.9                1.1                      1.4
3K  D ISRMZ
P1LT OF PRIVATE  NE
2-1VD   I
RISHSI OF 0HU0SEOLD                 ..        17.1      16.1 /I           22.2
3IH3T 2x  OF P                        ..  44.5           45.3 71u           48.0
L.003T 2 0  O      OLDS               ..        7.1       5.7 7              6.4
LWEST 403  OOF OMOtlS                 ..        17.7     16.9 7:            15.5
ESTIMTED ABSOLUTE POWElt INCOM
LEL (CfMS PER CAPMA)
U                                     ..          ..    320.0 /h           186.6                    288.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..    Z70.0 Th           152.0                    184.0
EShADRELATIVE POVERTY INCUS
LEVL (CUS$      CAPITA)
03343                                 ..          ..    370.0 lb           177.9                    522.8
IRURL                                 ..          ..    310.0              164.6                    372.4
POPLUZ    . IO  LOU
lOU?! Unm IaVn CZ)
n                                     ..          ..     18.0 ^             23.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..     11.0 7w            37.7
M3r AV-UAM-
NO  O T Z g
/a  Tbe group averaec for hmcb indisator are population-ueg~d eritbetSc ees.  Coverage of eountries smoag the
indicatoer depd en awaiblicy of dat and i   ot Mtor.
lb  U5... otberula. noted, 'Dam for 1960 refer to any yer bt_men 1959 end 1961;   ta for 1970 boteen 1969 and
1971; and data for Moat Recent Zotluat  betwe 1m  0 I nd   82.
Ic  1975;  d 1977; A 1979; /f 1962;  LL Retatred, not al pacticins in the country;  b 1978; /1 1976.
UE. 1984



3-q.w13 To 1333    3-  -  AdAda"  331-ddVd A3                 Id3p,
0-t2 33       33 MAAMMA -  3333 1l3l03'3 3- 3333-[T- 3-
3153  . 31110333333W        F.MAbA 3-113 741314-33333. ~-.
- p1143-333- Li 113 113-3311 '1.ATl33 1.2wi T& -a
5q j  Ad4 31 , "-101      Mr  33-' Ad-.. .3.3I  AdA              A, 3
-  .N.       -ii  ~   33 -          -   h3q.3.3 ITAdI    31311 33  '33
vml -w                                                     p~~~~~~-1 .3-~--          P 1      -33V - 1111   31134'' 
3--ft-t        -AIAN                                                                   3- *3-3d. '-33---a      3.153334-a-3 VIId- 3   -PI-1 Ayddid33
-a.33433133*f1                                                                                                                                 LI".33  333   13311*.~ 1    3133~ 3    3333
33 - 33-51 5  3-11 13Wd  - IV---a 1)  -13 333 -331333
'3"1 2333 3- 0531 *16*fi 243I13.3
-  3    ~~( 1~   3431) 3313333  31334  11133   ~3I                               I1 3--!13  333 34              - (333333  AVI) "d1 %3313  (1-3 AM') Pilo
3333*3331113"   11       3313*   l.    311.%-33                                         A.) 53 3d- 11313  - 313  3- 11133-   31w**   33 3.3
a &Lnftd  ~    ~      1-.  '1331  I1.3-3331333  3-331 el3 3.3  53 '31133 1
3-  - 1    S.3  -a 33  p-- Ap.3W   311 -3d13314111  J. 3-303 53 S.  -  13
A.33 3AA 4dI0  2AddA.3d1 0 33.    3LAIAI CZ313 ......1 Id    33 3-31 " 3                   -M 1   - *33  , P.M 3 1,1111113   53 &'1MMA 1.3  *311 -d.3  I43-
3  331   q 3-1131  - (-133  3- 33    3313 3I-R13  11M OA.=R. 3431   3  13   13. -(,~ 3.3)33                                                      33     k1
3-31316 3-31                              '3133~~~~~~.-     MI 3  0361 '(3-3331 IT-.33 M33331 V
*3-a 111   I  el-35   1W.1.T13  3- '-.3"3.d43  33 13133331131  II  11133
-(TI-S3 13MI-313 )  3131d43-3113-a3                            S.133l. AP-% 'l331            311313 33.1133p33 *431113 P- 1334.
33 11333- 3  3- (1 1113.31.31.31   =331 ,3  - -       _,A.A3_ -                         31133 _33  Iqw3A,3- 33333113=     1 P-      33  -3 .31 '3113.112AA
3  *Waft  -33  3-t -   *.313n 1.3  3  33 313=3  33a1J. d3.1313                             133   33  311113  .31345d33 311 Qd  .       333   -         -IAI33A03
3MI-MlI5   f 33.3313-  A.           -      p..-AAV   -      -JUT 13.3l                    113P331 m-  (l 1               33.13   1.3135   333333.
33  31341131J    31353   311*13       - WIl13  *3P-  1313331313534                                                                                 '33131 -ab
3-3.411j                 'a"13133   *311   333   33-(331)1131                           *5'3  13-13113131- 11 .331  3   Mwi3(33-533-.3   -
3-  .1    '41313-                          [.P--".)133  131   - (1311   I11133            -p3  33313331    1113   33(3-11331   3
*3313  3333  3113333313-11.33.35 1331 33-i. 7)14j43..              3143   131 119    - 6"   35-311353 AZ-.M 1131113NW             3 3
3-13 3.34333113 '33 ,  -331.  -A13131111333          s AW - (334)  3.d 331.1!5..3 - 333!  '33433F -                       3..W    - M           IIII.II -  .13.3.14 -]
11    13 3313p31-1311.u..           11.  '4. III .3 1   3.3 1.3.333I.351                                                                                 *3.333.34  I_B-   .  -  mdI 
133111ft l 31   31.3                    -a -P 1113 1                                   -PVI J. P-Id". 3.34- 33111 1-11-33-J3I                            .Z3113I
'313333            Id 1131. A353331 313.  3    ~ l-31 -3-d 11133- 31go33   13  -1331331331-3-15-33   133031131
A3A3333 I   P3-133311  P133         AI.I*  ITVI        ft3 333413                                                        31113              N S3  *53   R11331
.J  -1-   A. II&A3.333  3-31333 134.- 3                                                                  '31   3.   -*51 "`I131131.
313.1 5 .3131131133113. 1333 313- 3=1WII  3 1A.-1  1-413333                AI                      aIA   -Idw    3   '11 333  '1.03  -l 31.11114
3-333   1331(3   53IIII 3-3-333   333-3113313-11613315  313-13 13W _        ~                                      - 3=     ml (315  3(1161 -    311113
3-'11.3  133341113.  111.334 3333 1.1  33 3.33I--P                                                                    .v1 33.3 3'- '1(3  '1333   T....3
33-1333-3133J~313    41331133  311-1  1) 113  0333   333411 1. -3.31111      3   1531 33    333  WV* (.333 3
811133                       33313.3.3  313   353  -33     1311   33.33    911333
'31  53   - 31  '33   3(t.
'-133   1  333(   331114313131  33343Il -13343.134313  .13)-43   333.1    3'3
33 (111331 333 31  (333  3333  T*331fl  A333333  334  33_33I 331                                                   '33  3333 3-.I'T.J   '533"3 334-1 333
'333333  .511333433       1  3J.33I= 31.1 43311333, 31113 ... 1133331  31-.3.43 I   'I  '3 
.3-  3   3333313433'.3'11333   33333  1133333  1413333 INI1331 3-33d A-  1113- 43  Sa.1311    3.1311
113 -331-3 A.II,bAd r IA113   '3 - a1 111'333311333--I                              3-     3 3333-1     ".33311434 315  I5333.3333  - 1133.313  3334
111..d33S. 31331.  331-3111p3 3d'3 -f '133   11. 33 J.334 333211IIP                                      33  33334333  33J Z134333   33.1333
'3I333333353  313-    a1333331303A-I313                                      333  333.31.3311.1453WI"3313 I                       11.3  33 3,3
3333314111  3 .33.131334 .3I3...   3.333l3 31 I31 133  i ..K.    I."] A              413333AA33)1345.             , Iod,343 '3,31 ,, _t .3- .3-di33  %1 3---A13
153-53- 31 '1133  3.3.3 - 31133  1313.  '3133 - 33333  3113.3      33v1311 _,115P- 41.- V3 '.1. 3%'.333 333  3     133333113
..".6 3ft,.Il -1  m3l                                      1,'Ag~~~333-  3333  3333111n  A-=-I . 33   T_ P113.313 , -13 .3131  -,313.3
P..               II,  J131 .33134113;   '333'133S                              331131 134U 3 3333 1331 33  1533331-   115iOk 3.93l13  333  '11I
3- 331313133  . .333433.. 33    3-333=  '53.33334d pZ =131                       333333  3-    "-3.11 A3n333-  -A  3-  3. 3-339-m             3
531333113133333 33    3fil- '11   1  111   3  1133334wbtid 33                      3. .  131        Pd, 313333,3  111q303  333.3P1,53       d'IV - F W3IdId3
43-   -1313333   331'13. 313331P31113 331 d J.133                                                %    IIIs331314 3333133-.5
,A-q_ Aft'-343131133.311  333-33                                                                                '31   3.   - 133  (33  133113  .333
133333313333-133353111 13333 13  1p1313   '3..J np3 333  3-33   3  3341031331 --"11333 v-,1 5 01613333d3311  13-
1-i- PIA,                 J. _,b It---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~331333. 31334 03V
'333153 1313- 313  3 3-3.33 l133141331113                 _  D6   .0T-1MCa
3- Ad5AI".3V 33  IIII-Al-I -3333  31331 ('.33  '.J31P3. '3111  '3-3331..                 33333  --3Pk3  3- =3   111  '1131113  '33.35  313 I-,1 333311AU-l51
3333     133q3 1333334A3 I 33355311 .33333 d31-3331311  33333-                         A331W          II  133-3-1 33114   3113  - 15(3"3 M.l 333.t3133(  133c3
3-633311311 '3-3q *13334333f 3-333  '33                 d11  3-3511
t31333-  13334313114 3.3311334 331114333313  '31333344 3-31MIT  334                                                                         ..,.P 33.  331 VIA js '1333
IP"'3133343-  11   3   333.33'13*'.,          1    P3113 I'll I=     333                                                                      31333341  3.
p- 131- 33134d '11131          . 3*331   13.133-3335  A3153   J53313343  333333_3, 3-...1                                   A31533. 51133      3l3
-I-33 333113.5... 31 311613         A 3133)133 1333 1351311333 3-33...533   33333  331333 3- 3113 3-3 ft.3333.3 1313 3333  3l                          . 1
p3A.- 333. 331 TI3553,5333 I   3333133   -3I  -133  333 ftl.d433   33 333531 Al11   3113   3             '3333 A113d1.,-.             13.333  333333J3  3-33333
3313333 -33       - 'l35   -1 P-3 A,3 31 J. 133333.3,3313. 33.3  31,33433md jp 3-111 333  3.31. -333..-  J. -F33--4  -lb 111  '.131113(  35*1   3 431
3313133  33 33533331 334 35A.1131     13113p133533  -A  1133331  33313131 1333344  3  333133  3341    4130 31333J3  343 13 '5-3333133
311V1533.3-  413 3313  333-1      3313d,.O 33.3333  O33133  d13 13353 153  11133 p333133. 331334-i %B P IN     331113  IpA3334=3  33333A(1
T X)TINNV                                                                                       -1 z-



-22-                          I
lepuatio,      39.96    Cuit-19S3)                                                                                  A 4 of 5
01 per maitat 179$2,010 (1965)
Moa - 3COUAC  UDO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(uILUoM s g  at                           duul growth cate" CZ)
curreat prLe .)                           Aa                                 __Pr__el_te_
;ndcator                                                                                  1982       19831990
AOIU ACCOUS
teo. dmetc. product AL                  76,551          7.1        -3.5        6.9       5.5         9.5             7.5
Agricltre                             10,527           6.7      -21.7       24.5       4.1         6.3             3.5
InduetO                               30.219           8.2       -1.0        5.0       6.8        12.7            10.0
Uervica*                              35.805          6.7         2.9        3.1       4.9         6.9            6.5
Consmption                              56,530          7.4        -1.0        3.2       4.3        6.3             7.5
Greee lnaw tt                           20,763          17.5      -24.4        2.2      13.1        16.6            7.6
foetr of GCFS                           27,919          -3.6        9.9       17.0       6.9        11.6            8.2
1oportt of Gm                           28,661          8.6        -7.7        7.6       3.2        9.1             8.2
Grao o-tioual savinp                    19,156          3.7       -17.7        3.0       9.0        21.0            7.4
prices
Widteator (1980 - 100)                                  0.796       1.0        1.158     1.241       1.274         157.7
lbexge rate (USSI -   )                                484.0      607.6      681.0     731.1       775.75
Swart price Index (1980 - 100)                          95.6      100.0      103.0      99.2       96.4           142.7
Zaport price index (1960 - 100)                         78.4      100.0      104.0      98.7        94.4           141.0
Tarm of trade Index (1980 - 100)                       115.3      100.0       97.9      102.2      103.1           101.2
Share of CDP at _mrket price. CZ)                  Awerage annual increae (2)
(at current prceas ) /b                         (at emtant 1972 prie.s)
1960   1970    1975   1980   1985   1990       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Cro. domestic product           100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          8.6      9.8      8.2      7.0       7.5
AgLiculture                    36.7   26.9    24.5   16.5   13.6   11.3          4.3      4.9     -1.2      7.3       3.5
ImBatzy                        20.1   29.5    33.8   41.3   34.4   38.5         17.4     15.3      13.5     8.5      10.0
Services                       43.2   43.6    41.7   42.3   42.8  .40.9          8.1      7.7       7.6     6.7       6.5
Conmmtioa                      85.3   83.0    80.1   76.4   72.7   69.6          6.7      7.8      7.1      5.7       6.8
Cr.s ines t-t                  11.0   26.9    29.0   30.2   28.8   30.8         23.6    1l.2       14.6     6.0       8.9
Import, of GUYS                 3.4   14.3    27.6   35.7   38.6   41.7         29.3     25.4      16.1     9.8       8.5
Exports of GCIS                12.8   24.1    36.3   42.7   40.1   42.2         20.2     15.8      17.0     6.8       8.3
Gross nationl seping            8.0   19.5    20.6   21.7   26.5   29.8         17.2     14.6       9.0    12.7       9.5
AS X OF CDP                    Labor Force in 1983      Nlliona    (Z)
1960     1970     1975     1980      1984
PUiLIC FnIaU
currant revenues                  18.5     17.8      17.9     19.9      19.4     Agriculture                 4.3     28.6
Current expenditures              14.3     13.1      15.4     15.6      15.9    Industry                     4.2     27.7
Current surplus                    4.2      4.7       2.5      4.3      3.5      Services.                   6.0     39.6
Capital expenditure                3.4      6.4       6.4      5.9      5.5      Unemployed                  0.6      4.1
Foreign financing                   -       1.0       1.3      1.0      0.5
Total Labor Force     15.1    100.0
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80       1980-85       1985-90
O= IDCAIMUS
Annual CU growtb rate CZ)                                      8.7          9.0           7.9           7.0           7.5
Am_al CG  per capita growtb rate (Z)                           5.9          6.9           5.2           5.5           5.9
annul enerU  conanptina growth rate (1)                       14.2          9.6           8.7           5.7           5.4
ICDR                                                           1.9          2.7           5.4           4.2           4.0
Narginal saving rate                                           0.3          0.3           0.3           0.3           0.35
Import eiesticity                                              2.2          1.6           2.0           1.2           1.11
I'a PrelialnAZY.
Etst Asln end Pacific egional. Office
December 1984



-23-
Population    . 39,951    (Wid-1983 thouand.)                                                             Page 5 of 5
CNP per capita:  UD$13,64  (1933)
KOREA - BALANCE OF P^m118 . 18 ruRmuL CAPrrAL AMD DEBT
(Hlillio.. UOl at currant prices)
-Indicator                                1970    1975      1978        Actu l          1961     1962    1963
BALANCE 07 PAINfhT
Exports of good  and services       1,379   5,909   17,124   19,526   22.587   27,552   28,500   30,369    82,502
Of hiebh  abrchndise f.o.b.        882   5,028   12,678   14,694   17,220   20,936   20,961   23,204    70,566
IWorts of good. and services        2,180   7,992   16.651   24,115   28,360   32,476   31,500   32,588    84,033
Of whicht Ibrcbndis.e f.o.b.    1,804   6,671   14,436   19,266   21.604   24,337   23,361   24,904    70,737
Not transfers                         178     225       467      439       449      S06      473       592       600
Carrent Account Bllnce               -623  -156   -1 060   -4.153   -5.325   -4 418   -2.546   -1 607           -930
(X of CWoNF)                        (=r.) 2   912  t)          (-2 7.1)   (-.43)   (--.4)   (-3.9)   (-2.1)    (-1.0)
Direct invest_nt                       66      53        61       17        -5       59       100    101.4       483
HLT Loan (net)                        242   1,Z52    2,216    2,945    2,096    4,Z67    2,051    1,332        3,298
Official                            147     486       663      862      689    1,337       S80       661     1,084
Private                              95     765    1,552    2,093    1,408    2,929    1,171         471     2,214
Other capital (incl. erro.            372     929      -510    2,090    3,770       367      484      -975       322
osisionn)
Chmsge in reserves (gross)            -57    -376      -707     -898      -536     -Z7S      -96       -74    -3.174
International reerves (gross)         606   2,012    5.405    6,303    6,839    7.114    7,212    6,910    21,167
Reserve. .S anths iparts              3.3      3.0      3.5      3.1       2.9      2.6       2.7      2.1       3.0
rERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Crom Disbursemnts
Official grant                        -       -         -        -         -        -       50         -
Concessional loans                  123      123      184      193       138      159      148    203.3
DAC                               122    I3J8       16       173       121      158      146    203.3        200
OPEC                                -       -        13       20        17        1        -        -          -
IDA                                 1      14         3        -        -         -        -        -          -
Other                               -       1         -        -        -         -        -        -          -
lonconcesaional Loans               317   1,511    3.729    4,448    3,655    4.779    3,937    3,230        5,661
Official export credits            le     151       219      341      606       844      532       500       965
IlltD                               7     167      321       426      254       306      438      384        780
Other mltil-teral                   5      87        89       91       90       104      116       388       223
Private - source (residual)       287   1.083    3.101    3.591    2.705    3.525    2.851    2.158        3.692
Itdiu_- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed      1,797   5.540   11.937   14.553   16,274   19.964   22.006   28.170    46,319
Official - source                 613   2,657    5,015    5.667    6,498    7,702    8,572          -    15,832
Private  -  ource               1.185   2,863    6,921    8,866    9,776   12,263   13,433          -    304687
Undisbursed debt                    902   1,679    6,294    5,337    7,072    5,996    5,324    4.298        6,370
Debt Service on MLT Lon
Total service payments              266     667    1.825    2,578    2,762    3,597    4,199   46.570        8,509
Interwst                           70     283      657       890    1,310    1.777    2.164    2.187       3.295
Payments *a-  exports              19.4    11.3      10.7     13.2      12.2     13.0     14.5      15.4      11.1
Short- rerm Debt
Debt outstading and disbursed         -   2,409    3,575    6,Z79   10.047   13,658   14,100   11,940    13,030
Interest payments                     -       -      Z36       377      907    1,810    1,328    1.169       1,303
Interest as 7 exports                 -       -       1.4      1.9      4.0       6.7      5.3       3.9       1.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (2)
Official                              4.5      7.9      7.4      7.6       7.5      8.4      8.0      10.9      ID.9
Private                               7.1    9.3        9.7     11.4      14.0     13.6      13.7     11.7      11.7
Average Usturity on New Loans (year)
Official                             28.0    19.3      19.6     16.8      19.6     15.3      15.5     16.4      16.4
Private                              10.9     5.7      10.9     10.7      11.2     13.1      8.1      11H.      11.8
As 2 of debt outstanding
at end at set recent
year (1982)
MIturity structure of debt outstanding
HaturitLes due within 5 years                                       53.4
Maturities due wthin 10 yers                                        73.1
Interest structura of debt outseading                                   6.7
Interest due within first year
la Prelimiary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Decenber 1984



-24-
TIM STATUS oF tA    =001  OPWEATJOlS IN TOE IlRE ILIC    mm  /a
A.  Stat_mnt of lank oas and TDA Credlt. (am Of Marck 3l. 13)
Loan or                                                                               A_ut (* Smllion)
credit     Cslendar                                                                 (low csnel-Utione)
Nuber        Ta-r          Burrower                                           ank      TV        A    UeIsbure
lForty-six loan  and eight credits fully disbursed                         2,764.44   40.00   115.51
1364         1977     ADC                  Irrsation                          95.0                            0.26
l503         1978     ADC                  Agriculturslhrriation,             36.0                            4.00
1666         1979     ISVACO               Chugju Mltlpurpoe                 125.0                            4.36
k676         1979     Republic of Kora  ZEleCtrons Technolog                  29.0                            8.35
1758         1979     Republlc of Korea   Second 0rangjU leAgionI             65.0                            1.54
1774         1979     Republic of Xorea   Population I                        30.0                           20.20
1788         1979     Korea Electric Co. Power                               111.0                            8.26
1800         1980     Republic of Korea   Bducation V                        100.0                            2.55
1836         1980     Republic of Korea   Railway VII                         94.0                            1.50
1851         1980     AMDC                 Agriculture II                     50.0                            1.23
1932         1981     KLTCB VIII           DIV. Finance Co.                   90.0                            2.01
1933         1981     KM IV                Div. Finane Co.                   100.0                            0.16
1980         1981     Republie of Korea   Nat. Urbn Land & Housing            75.3                           13.07
2004         1871    SgM1  IV              Dew. Finance Co.                   60.0                            3.37
2072         1982     Republic of xorea   water Supply                        90.0                           25.75
2111         1982     Republic of Korea   Agricultural arketing              31.3                            2.04
2112         1982     KTDC I               Technology Development             50.0                           11.53
2144         1982     CNB II               DFC                                30.0                            8.60
2215         1982     Republic of Korea  Nachlnery Industry                   70.0                           61.99
2216         1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. urban Land and Rousing        100.0                           50.44
2228         1982     Republic of xorea  Prowincil  and County loads         125.0                           50.77
2267         1983     Republic of xorea   Coal and Cement Distribution       122.0                          100.00
2309         1983     Republic of Korea   Industrial Finance                 255.0                          144.23
2350         1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                 78.5                           59.51
2388         1984     Republic of Korea   Jeonju Reglonal Development         60.0                           59.85
2392         1984     Republic of Korea   lighway Sector                     230.0                          202.12
2427         1984     Republic of Korea  gdncat'on Sector                    10C.5                           98.46
2473         1984     KTDC II              Second Technology Development    -50.0                            46.00
2491         1985     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                        95.0                           95.00
Total                                                        5311.54   40.00   115.58       1.087.17
of whlch has been repaid                                     822.20    3.69      7.33
Total now outstanding                                        4,489.34   36.32   108.25
Amount sold                  8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                 -       -         -
Total now held by  }Ank and IDA
(prior to exchange mijustOent)                             4.U9.34   36.32   108.25
Total undisbursed                                            1,087.17     -         -       1.087.17
/a   The statos of the projects listed In Part A are described In a separate report on all UkIDA-f:ianced
projects in executton, which Is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



ANNRX II
-25-                                  Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IPC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                       Amount (S milllon)
Year        Obligor            Types of Business            Loan  Fquity Total
1968     XLB (KDFC)            Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969     Honam Sllk Co.        Textiles                       1.4   0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper                6.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -      0.7    0.7
1974     XLB (KDFC)             nevelopment Financing         -      0.4    0.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market nevelopment   -       0.3    0.3
*                    1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products          16.n    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.       Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Rae ltn Dae nevelop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -      0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                          5.0    n.8    5.8
1976     Korea Zinc. ro. Ltd.  Zinc                         15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KLR (KDFCI            Development Financing        17.8      -    17.8
1976     Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Vlectronic Products           10.0    n.4   1n.4
1977     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products            -      0.2    n.2
1977     XLB (KDFC)            Development Financing          -      0.3    n.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                 -     0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.       Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     RLB CKDFC)            nevelopment Financing          -      1.1    1.1
1979     cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products             -      1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                  Capital Market                 -      n.6    n.6
1979     Korea "evelopment
Leasing Corp                                       -     0.2    0.2
[979     Cold Star 6 Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products            -      1.5    1.5
1980/84  Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            -      5.3    5.3
1980     Korea Investment
Finance rorp.       Capital Market                 -     0.6    0.6
1980/   Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Crrp.                                      -      2.3    2.3
1980     RLB (KDFC)            Development Financing          -      2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Rulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.            Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
1982     KIFC                   Capital Market                -      0.6    n.6
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development         -     0.6    0.6
1983     KDIC                   Honey & Capital Market        -      n.9    n.'
1984     Ealla Cement           rement rons:. Material       4.3    3.9    R.2
1985     Korea Fund             Money & Capital Market        -      9.1    9.1
Total gross comitment                             110.7   47.7  158.4
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                             101.6   18.6  120.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                   9.1   29.1   38.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                          0.1    0.1
/a Crancelled at the recuest of the rompany.



ANNEX III
- 26 -
KOREA
SEOUL BUSAN CORRIDOR PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  12 months
(b)  Project preparation agency:                          KNR
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and
Bank consideration thereof:                        September 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraiszl mission:              February 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                  April 26, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                       September 1, 1985
Section II: Special Implementation Conditions
None.
Se=tion III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Loan Effectiveness: The entering into of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and KNR on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank (para. 51).
(b) Others:
(i) the Government would facilitate the implementation of KKR's
Management Improvement Plan for the Seoul-Busan corridor, and
will consult with the Bank to review and evaluate progress
(para. 48).



IBRO 1875E
OIINA                  ' ,    DEMOCRATIC PEOPLFS REPUBLIC OF KOREA                I
Edna~ ~ '
A-- JAIN  v'r_)_ J 
*  }   cus,           ~~Oc aonv
H+apSa -                     J5               >}\   g    \                     F~~~astb Sea
rex/ wv t~~~AI!P                                                                                                         3--  _w
Chur Se.,
v.a au Lw Cnveq
amaurn a.ww,                                                                               SDOtOWf 
crum Am Lz     e              ,
rar  m  r   z W   .-MO- % *t w 
crUMam mac an v....a.wl
.cram au   r  lO_.,,La
em - WONr    mi..
am" se U.N S
Tr me an_vss ASte__ r
G.EOW offm     X--                                                     EON,3~I                   S    I E9 
tom am Law     Stw
el D   ow        Sew            -^        -  
,; rC J >,              ka'                           REPUBLIC OF ICREA
r                    ~~~~'  Wry, ~~~SEOUL BUISAN CORRIDOR PROJECT
SW n ZME  S-L.A.,    3                                                      ",
jsoluu                     D~~~~cw.uAu  EGno
I          ~~-       Ds Twk
. ~       ~~~~ ..JO .a~ _ 
Ye      o w      Se                                      i .                        os 94JKT   IS RED
rab.hU                                                          J '-.UPIESSWAYSS
___.___~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -   IN 1_AIOA IOJOSC
c - -~        -                         -    .                      - ''fX<
..~~~~~~ (                                                                  -                   s ' ns
Is.
ir~~~WW                                                                        UA
-30 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aH15






