                                              Documentof
                                           The WorldBank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo: 28218-IRN




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ON A

                                           PROPOSED LOAN

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$80MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                                                FOR THE

                  IRANURBANUPGRADINGAND HOUSINGREFORMPROJECT

                              INSUPPORT OF THEFIRSTPHASEOF THE
                 IRANURBANUPGRADING AND HOUSINGREFORMPROGRAM




                                               May 3,2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective March 17, 2003)

            Currency Unit = IranianRials (IRR)
                 1.00 IRR = US$.OOO1
                 US$l.OO = 8072.00 IRR

                    FISCAL YEAR
                March 21 -- March 20

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL            Adaptable ProgramLoan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBI            CentralBank o fIran
CBOs           Community-BasedOrganizations
DOE            Department o f Environment
DM              Supreme Audit (Dowan Mouhassaba)
EGM            EnvironmentalGuidelinesManual
EMP            EnvironmentalManagement Plan
EUC            ExecutiveUpgrading Committees (at the local level)
FMR            Financial Management Reporting
FOM            Financial Operations Manual
GDP             GrossDomestic Product
GO1             Government o f Iran
HUDO           Housingand UrbanDevelopment Organization
IBRD            InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICT             Information and CommunicationTechnology
ISC             Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (at the central level)
LDF             LocalDevelopment Fund
LG              Local Government
MEAF            MinistryofEconomic Affairs andFinance
MHUD            MinistryofHousingandUrbanDevelopment
MPO             Management and P l a d n g Organization
MOI             MinistryofInterior
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non-Governmental Organizations
NHC            National Habitat Committee
NLHO           National Land and Housing Organization
NS             National Shopping
OM              Operations Manual
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
P A             Project Account
P M U           Project Management Unit
PVO             Private Voluntary Organization
QBS             Quality Based Selection
QCBS            Quality and Cost Based Selection
RPF             Resettlement Policy Framework

                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




            SA                  Special Account
            SOE                 Statement of Expenses
            TUA                 Technical Unit for Component-A
            TUB                 Technical Unit for Component-B
            UDRO                Urban Development and Rehabilitation Organization
            UUHRP               UrbanUpgrading and Housing ReformProgram
            WA                  Withdrawal Application

                           Vice President:     Chnstiaan Poortman
                         Country Director:     Joseph Saba
                           Sector Director:    EmmanuelForestier
                        Task Team Leader:      Sateh Chafic El-Amaout'Omar Razzaz




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                    ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN
                IRANURBANUPGRADINGAND HOUSINGREFORMPROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. ProgramPurposeand Project Development Objective                                      Page

   1. Programpurpose and program phasing
   2. Project development objective
   3. Key performance indicators

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices
   4. Programdescription andperformance triggers for subsequent loans

C. Program and Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                   8
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
   3. Benefits and target population                                                       9
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                        10

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            11
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        11
   3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                   12
   4. Indications o f borrower commitment andownership                                    13
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         13

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            13
   2. Financial                                                                           14
   3. Technical                                                                           16
   4. Institutional                                                                       16
   5. Environmental                                                                       17
   6. Social                                                                              19
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   21

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     21
   2. Critical risks                                                                     22
   3. Possible controversialaspects                                                      22


G. Main LoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            22
   2. Other                                                                              23

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           23

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             23



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          24
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     33
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           41
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    47
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    49
           (B) FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                          57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     68
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    69
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            71
Annex 11:Institutional Arrangements                                                      73
Annex 12: Job Description of Key Project Management Staff                                80
Annex 13: Project Cycle for Urban Upgrading (Component A)                                86




MAP(S)
32128-IRN

                                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                               IranUrbanUpgradingand Housing ReformProject

                                     ProjectAppraisal Document
                                      MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region
                                                   MNSIF

Date: April 7, 2004                                    Team Leader: Sateh Chafic El-Amaout
Sector Director: EmmanuelForestier                     Sector(s): Housing construction(40%), Housing finance
Zountry ManagerDirector: JosephP. Saba                 andreal estate markets (20%), Centralgovernment
Project ID: PO73433                                    administration (20%), Roads and highways (1O%),    General
Lending Instrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL)        water, sanitation and flood Protectionsector (10%)
                                                       Theme@): Personalandproperty rights (P), Access to
                                                       urbanservicesfor the poor (P), Municipalgovernance and

                                      -                institution building(S), Participationandcivic engagement
                                                       (S), Gender (S)
                                                                 - --
ProgramFinancingData
                                                                Estimated
 APL               IndicativeFinancingPlan               ImplementationPeriod                 Borrower
                                                                (Bank FY)
         I   IBRD          I   Others   I     Total   I Commitment       Closing   I
            US$ m      YO      US$ m         US$ m          Date           Date-
4PLLoanl
    1        80.00    80.0      20.00        100.00     05/25/2004      12/30/2009 Islamic Republic of Iran




For LoanslCreditslOthers:
LoanCurrency:UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): 80
BorrowerRationalefor Choice of LoanTermsAvailableon File:[7 Yes
ProposedTerms (IBRD):Variable-SpreadLoan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                              Years to maturity: 17




Borrower: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF HOUSINGAND URBANDEVELOPMENT
(MHUD)
ContactPerson: Dr.Ali Abdolali-Zadeh, Ministerof Housing and UrbanDevelopment
Tel:               Fax: 98-21-877-6711               Email:

- 2 -

A. Program Purpose and Project DevelopmentObjective
1. Program purpose andprogramphasing:

The overall purpose o f the proposed Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project
(UUHRP) is to facilitate the transition to a market-led housing sector in Iran while improving
current living conditions for low and moderate income households. To achieve the above, a three
phase Adaptable Program Loan was prepared and is spread over a period o f twelve years as
detailed below:

The purpose o f APLl (US$ 100 million over afive year period) is to: i)institute an integrated
approach to upgrading informal settlements, and ii)lay the foundations (of systems, capacity,
framework) and initiate housing sector reforms.

The APL2 (US$ 80 million over afour year period) envisions: (i)      up-scaling urban upgrading to
the national level; and (ii)
                           launching housing sector reforms with a focus on deepening the housing
finance sector and streamlining the subsidies system.

The APL3 (US$150 million over a threeyear period) will aim to: (i)      increase the amount o f long
term resources for housing finance channeledthrough the financial markets; (ii)    address the more
complex problems o f the revitalization o f run down historic city centers and the preservation o f
historic sites and cultural heritage; and (iii)build capacity o f local governments in urban
management ina decentralized context.

2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The key development objectives o f the Project (APL1) are to (i)    improve the living conditions in
under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five provincial capital cities and; (ii) the systems,
                                                                               prepare
capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiate market based housing sector reforms. To ensure
that investments inupgrading are o f highpriority to their ultimate beneficiaries, municipalities are
expectedto undertake a strategic planningprocesswith significant community participation.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The performance o f the Project will be measured against two categories o f indicators (one for
each Development Objective), which are describedinAnnex 1.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber:IranInterimCAS, R2001-0051            Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/10/2001

The program supports the main priorities o f the interimCAS, namely: (a) support for reforms and
economic management; (b) support for the social protection agenda; (c) support for environment
and natural resources management. The program i s also consistent with the interimCAS focus on
priority areas such as low-income housing, water and sanitation, and urban upgrading and
community basedinfrastructure.




                                                - 3 -

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

The 3rd Five Year Development Plan (1999/0-2003/4) gave a prominent role to the housing
sector and the 3rd Housing Development Plan set out four strategic objectives that aim at (i)
increasing the flow of long term domestic and foreign resources for housing finance in tandem
with the adoption of adequate building technologies and the development of a professional and
efficient construction industry, (ii)promotingfinancing for and mass production of small housing
units adapted to the needs and affordability of low-income and vulnerable households, (iii)
improving the efficiency o f taxation and subsidies inthe housing sector and to promote housing
insurance, and (iv) reducing government controls and devolve responsibilities to local authorities
(Provincial agencies and municipalities) for housing, urban land management (including
government owned land) andpromotionof rental housing and housing cooperatives.

While some progress has been achieved in the implementation of the 3rd Housing Development
Plan, the Government will need to pursue and accelerate the reforms in several areas as outlined
inthe Bank Housing Sector Strategy Note ofJune 2002andthe ensuing Action Plan.

(a) Physical Infrastructure Constraints. During the last decade Iran has experienced a rapid
urban growth that has exceeded the capacity of the state and municipalities to extend urban
infrastructure and services. It has resulted in a significant proliferation of under-serviced
settlements. Many of these settlements are outside the official city limits and, therefore, not legally
recognized by municipalities. Others are within the dilapidated historic center of cities that offer
tremendous wealth of cultural heritage. Such settlements are estimated to constitute 20 - 30% of
the urban fabric and are home to the poorest segments of the urban population.

(b) Natural Constraints. Iran is one of the most seismically active regions of the world.
Earthquakes are considered to be the most destructive of all natural catastrophes that could
happen in Iran. Destructive earthquakes occur regularly resulting in significant economic and
human losses. Housing losses due to earthquake amount to an average of 1 percent of existing
housing stock per year. The Iranian territory is frequently reminded of this by occurrences of
disastrous earthquakes such as the most recent devastating Bam earthquake on December 26,
2003 (Ms=6.3).

(c) DemandConstraints.
Underdeveloped housing finance: Following the nationalization of the banking system in 1358
(1979), Iran has been operating for two decades under a financial policy of directed credit that
includes a "specialized circuit" for housing finance. However, the supply of housingloans remains
small (3% of GDP) when compared to Tunisia (6%) or Malaysia (22%).                It is also below the
objectives set by the current development plan for affordable housing. Presently, Bank Maskan
(the Housing Bank), which is a specialized state-owned bank, is the dominant provider of
long-term housing finance to households. Public commercial banks limit lending to shorter-term
construction finance and savings mobilization proved to be difficult. Under pressure from the
rapidly rising demand for housing, increasing numbers of subsidized or state-hded housing
finance programs have been sponsored by several ministries or agencies and delivered by public



                                                 - 4 -

banks to provide some relief to targeted social groups.

InefJicient system of housing subsidies: Preliminary estimates suggest that housing subsidies in
Iran are significant and may reach 4.5% o f GDP. Taking into account utility subsidies amounting
to 3% of GDP, housing-related subsidies become excessive and may exceed annual housing
investment (4.7% of GDP in 1996/7). These subsidies are: (i)mostly non-transparent and
unaccounted for in any budget, (ii)  inefficiently delivered, (iii)
                                                                  regressive in the form of interest
rate and energy subsidies, and (iv) provided through a highly fragmented system. As such, their
benefits accrue largely to households in higher income brackets. Furthermore, subsidies are
granted to developers, financing institutions and buyers, leading to inefficiencies, speculation and
deviation of subsidies from their intended beneficiaries. With very few exceptions, such as the
ImamKhomeini Foundation, the intended population groups are not receiving the full benefits of
government assistance. For many, such assistance is inaccessible.

(d) Supply Constraints.
InsufJicient supply of undeveloped and serviced land. As urban land at the periphery of many
cities is government owned, this leaves little room for the development of an active land market.
The MHUD, which controls much of the public land, has initiated a new urban land development
policy with the intention to increase the availability of developable land substantially. The focus
of the ministry's strategy concerning landmanagement has been to provide infrastructure for new
residential areas (including the development of newhatellite towns) and to supply developed land
to individuals, construction companies and developers. Most of the land remains un-serviced and
un-titled. Withholdingsuch significant amounts of landstifles private sector contribution to urban
development and seriously restricts the efficient operation of landmarkets.

Rigid Urban planning and management: Urban planning inIran is directive and hierarchical in
terms of both coverage and nature. The constraints created by the rigidity of urban plans and
legal zoning have contributed to the proliferation of informal settlements in and around major
cities.   In response, the Government has started the rehabilitation of these under-serviced
neighborhoods as part of a comprehensive review of current urban planning and management
process.

(e) InstitutionalConstraints.
Lack of empowerment and engagement of local government: Although article 7 of the
Constitution assigns major roles in the government structure to elected local councils, it was not
until the 3rd Development Plan that appropriate actions to promote decentralization were given
highpriority. Decentralization has become the mainthrust ofthe upcoming4th development plan.
A draft decentralization law that is expected to be enacted by the Parliament soon will reinforce
the role of the city councils by transferring allocations of the corresponding budgetary resources
and creating elected regional councils and inter-communal councils. Overall, it is envisaged that
local authorities and other stakeholders will ultimately be empowered to make decisions on
planning, budgeting, execution and management of city policy in response to the local needs and
inline with national development plans and policy guidelines. This devolution of responsibilities
will require, among other things, considerable training and institutional capacity building at the
local level.




                                                 - 5 -

Fragmentation      of   policy decision-making and responsibilities: Numerous government
institutions andorganizations are involved insetting and implementinghousing and urban policies
and programs inIran. The Ministry of Housing and UrbanDevelopment (MHUD)must deal not
only with other central government bodies but also with the Housing Foundation, the Housing
Bank and six affiliated organizations. This has resulted in multiple and disjointed housing
programs, difficult development o f a coherent and well coordinated housing sector policy.
Consequently, housing markets in Iran are highly heterogeneous, precise knowledge o f real
housing needs i s lacking (despite the wealth o f housing information available) and access to
subsidies has lessto do with income than with location/ employment affiliation.

These constraints have resulted in: (i)a highly volatile private housing market; (ii)  an unbalanced
output infavor o f large units; and (iii)a very fragmented financing through numerous small public
housing programs.

3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices:

To assist the Government o f Iran realize its vision for the housing sector as described in the 3rd
FiveYear Plan, the Project addresses the key issues mentionedbelow:

(a) Infrastructure Constraints: the Project will address peripheral urban settlements inup to 5
provincial capital cities and instigate a national community enabling and urban upgrading
program. It will also prepare a pipeline of urban upgrading and enabling sub-projects inup to 10
provincial capital cities. APL2 will scale-up interventions to the national level. It will also include
socio-economic and technical studies on upgrading inner city residential areas, preserving their
cultural heritage, and infrastructure needs for city extension, to be implemented under APL3.

(b) Supply Constraints: The Project seeks to explicitly address regulatory and planning barriers
to the supply o f land such as constraints in planning, development, and regularization of urban
land in a number of pilot cities with the view to scale up these reforms during the following
phases. It also attempts to introduce a more demand drivenand transparent system for allocation
o fpublic land.

(c) Demand Constraints:these are mostly related to regulatory and institutional barriers in the
areas o fhousing finance and subsidies:
         (i) The Project seeks to introduce reforms to 1) reduce credit rationing, 2) address the
         imminent liquidity risk associated with the existing credit linked contractual housing
         savings schemes, which entails, inter-alia, maturity mismatches between sources o f funding
         and loans extended, and 3) enable mobilization o f capital markets for housing finance in
         the mediumto long term.
         (ii) The Project seeks to introduce more efficient and better targeted demand-side subsidy
         instruments that do not undermine the development o f market based housing sector. It
         also seeks to develop an information system to allow for the identification o f the costs,
         transparency, impact (economic efficiency) o f housing subsidies and the characteristics of
         the beneficiaries (social impact).




                                                  - 6 -

(d) InstitutionalConstraints:
        (i) Empowerment of local governments: The Project will assist participating local
        authorities to assume their full responsibilities through capacity building and investments.
        Followingphases will attempt to scale upthese efforts to all local governments.
        (ii) Establishing a single housing information system for policy and decision-making:
        The Project will assist in developing an information system that provides timely data and
        analysis for policy makers, financial intermediaries and investors. The Project will also
        assist in capacity building and establishing the proper coordinating mechanisms between
        MHUD,MPOand CBI.

A s the above issues cannot be tackled all at once, strategic choices had to be made to balance
primacy of intervention versus difficulty/gestation periodneeded to cany out reforms.


4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:

Given the long tradition of a centrally planned and managed economy in Iran, the reforms would
be comprehensive requiring medium and long term gestation periods. Hence the need for an
Adjustable Program Lending with specific triggers for each phase confirming commitment and
readiness and ensuring the feasibility of the ensuing phase (Annex lb). The Program is divided
into three phases over a twelve year period and a total cost of US$330million. APLl (US$lOO
million over a 5 year period) will i)institute an integrated approach to upgrading informal
settlements, and ii)lay the foundation (systems, capacity, framework) for and initiate housing
sector reforms (see project description).

APL2 (US$SO million over a 4 year period) will cover two components: scaling-up urban
upgrading to another 15 provincial capital cities and launching housing sector reforms. These
reforms will focus on deepening the housing finance sector through eliminating regulatory
preferences for public banks and ensuring a level playing field and competitive environment for all
banks providing housing finance. It will also attempt to support government's efforts to
streamline the housing subsidies system by moving towards a more transparent and direct
subsidies that rely on demand-side instruments targeted to the poor households.

APL3 (US$150millionover a 3 year period) will buildon the foundations laid duringthe previous
phases. It will cover three components. The first will further scale-up upgrading to all remaining
provincial capital cities and address the more complex problems of the revitalization of run down
historic city centers. The second component will focus on building municipal management
capacity in a decentralized context. The third component will aim at increasing the amount o f
long-term resources for the housing finance channeled through the financial markets. Appraisal
during APL2 will determine the status of housing finance and the most appropriate form of
assistance, including technical assistance, guarantees, and/or capitalization of a secondary
mortgage facility.

Specific triggersfor APL2 and APL3 are listed in Annex 1b.




                                                 - 7 -

C. Programand Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for adetailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):

The Project objectives will be achieved through three main components: (i) upgrading and
                                                                               urban
community enabling programs inup to 5 selectedcities; (ii)    technical assistancefor housing sector
reforms; and (iii)technical assistance and capacity building for Project implementation.

ComponentA -UrbanUpgrading(US$89.62million)
This Component lays the foundation for launching a sustainable country-wide urban upgrading
program through the implementation o fthe following sub-components:

    A-1: Design and supervision of upgradingprograms in APLI cities.
    A-2: Implementation of upgradingprograms in APLI cities:
    A-3: Design of upgradingprogramsfor APL2 cities
    A-4: Design offinancing arrangementsfor upgrading under APL2 andAPL3

Component B-HousingReforms(US$3 million)
Component-B aims at enhancing housing affordability and efficiency o f the housing sector inIran
inthe long term. It will consist of foreign and local technical assistance, training and equipment
for implementingthe specific priority actions in reforming the housing sector as outlined in the
Housing Sector Strategy and the ensuing Action Plan:

    B-I: Housing and land management
    B-2: Housingfinance
    B-3: Housing subsidies
    B-4: Housing information

ComponentC -ProjectManagement(US$2million)
This Component will finance: (i) cost o f office and ICT equipment required for Project
                                     the
management and implementation; and (ii)technical assistance for Project management and
implementation, including hiring o f individual consultants and consulting firms inareas o f Project
management, financial managementand procurement, Project monitoring and evaluation including
the documentation o f the Project experience and study tours, training to key policy-makers and
other.

The Project costs are summarized inthe tablebelow:




 2. Housing Sector Reforms                                I     3.00 I       3.O   1   2.91  1     3.6 I
 3. Project Management                                         2.00         2.0        1.66        2.1




                                                - 8 -


                        t

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:


           Policy Area                                   Policy and Institutional Reform
Urban upgrading                   - "Urban  upgrading" budget line establishedat a provincial level allowing
National: Unifyingnational urban MPO to disburse funds for integrated upgrading at the local level instead oi
upgrading policy and developing   allocations to separate line ministries.
instruments for integrated
(cross-sectoral) upgrading.
Housing and land management National:
National: Addressingsafety and    - Revisebuildingcodesandstandards for housingconstruction.
affordability concerns o f formal National / Local:
housing.                          - Carry  out participatory City Development Strategies at the local level
National / Local: Introducing     to better reflect local priorities and development needs.
market responsive city planning   - Reflect CDSs outputs inthe future master plans inparticipating cities;
and land supply.                  - Develop  a transparent system for releasing public landsystematically
                                  andinresponseto market demandfor urbanexpansion inparticipating
                                  cities.
Housing finance                   - Establish a system for assessing, monitoring andmanagingliquidity
National: Developingprimary       riskassociatedwith loan linked housing savings schemesandensure
housingfinance market.            positive net treasury position.
                                  - Establisha level playing field for housingfinance for all banking
                                  institutions.
Housing subsidies                 - Establisha  system for tracking andevaluatingcosts, efficiency,
National: Streamlininghousing     transparency andimpact (social and that on the market) o fhousing
subsidies and establishing a      subsidies.
unified systemfor collection and  - Introduce  demand side housing subsidy instruments that are explicit,
analysis o f subsidy data.        transparent andwell targeted.
Housinginformation                - Establish a system for collecting data on andmonitoringo fnational
National: Developing national     housing and landmarkets that can be usedby the policy makers,
housing and landmarket            financial intermediaries and investors.
information system.



3. Benefits and target population:

The primary beneficiaries of the Project are low-income households living in and around the
participating cities. These groups experience much lower housing and service standards`thanthe
rest of the city, higher vulnerability to the risk of evictions and earthquakes, and have virtually no
access to serviced plots at affordable costs. Another group of beneficiaries is the private
construction and other industries and services with strong linkages to the housing sector.




                                                     - 9 -

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:

Project implementation is aligned with current institutional responsibilities inIranand eachProject
component will be implementedby the relevant agency underthe MHUD:Component-A - by the
Urban Development and Rehabilitation Organization (UDRO), the main agency responsible for
urban upgrading projects in historic cities; Component-B - by the National Land and Housing
Organization (NLHO).

An Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) with representatives of the MOI, MEAF, the
Central Bank (CBI), MPO, the High Commission for Architecture and UrbanDevelopment, and
UDRO was established during Project preparation. Its main role is to provide guidance to the
reform strategy and to the design o f the Program. Duringthe implementation, the ISC will be in
charge o f Program oversight. It will meet at least quarterly to review progress, coordinate
decisions and remove impediments to the timely implementation o f the Program. Annexes 11to
13 provide a detailed description o f the institutionalarrangement for the Project.

Overall Project Management
The following is a summary ofthe Project's implementation cycle (for details see Annex 13). The
MHUDwill have an overall responsibility for the Project implementation under the oversight of
the ISC, including Project monitoring and auditing. It will rely on a Project Management Unit
(PMU) and two Technical Units - TUA and TUB - to be established and housed at MHUD,
UDRO, and NLHO respectively. Eachunit will have a lean core staff complemented as necessary
by specialized short-term consultants to meet peak loads andor to provide specialized expertise.
Training o fthe core staff inthe various program specialtiesand Bank procedures will be provided
under Component C ofthe Project.

The PMU at the MHUDwill be responsible for the procurement and financial management o f the
Project on behalf o f MHUD and, hence, for maintaining accounting records, preparing Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and submitting them to the Bank on quarterly basis. The financial
management procedures, including internal control mechanisms, flow o f funds, accounting
procedures, procurement and disbursement procedures and reporting will be implemented
according to the requirements summarized below and stipulated in Annex 6. The PMU will also
submitto the Bank biannual investment programs and quarterly Project progress reports.

Financial Management Arranaements
The loan proceeds and counterpart funds will be disbursedonly after two budget lines are opened
within the government budget and a framework agreement is signed between the MPO and the
MHUDdetailing the Project duration andactivities.

All payments under the Project will be subject to the government controls and will be audited by
an external independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Funds for Project implementation will be
advanced by the MHUD to its provincial offices and will be deposited into the Project Account at
a local bank (PA Sub-account). The hnds will be advanced upon receiving a request from the
Provincial Financial Controller (PFC) specifying the amount o f funds needed for each quarter,
accompanied by a cash-flow forecast based on the budgeted activities. Within 25 days from the
end of each month, the PFC will submit to the PMU a summary o f all payments incurred during



                                                - 1 0 -

the previous month along with all the supportive documentation, the PA Sub-account bank
statement and an estimation o f the amounts needed for the next quarter. The PA will be
replenished from the SA accordingly. The PMU will maintain and operate an accounting system
to record and follow all Project's financial transactions, generate the Project monitoring reports
andprepare Project financial reports inaggregatedand disaggregatedforms.

The Financial Officer (FO) will work closely with the MHUD Financial Controller, train and
supervise the Project and provincial accountants. The FO will also be responsible for the
implementation o f the accounting system and preparation o f a fmancial operations manual (FOM)
documenting the requiredprocedures for the flow o f funds, auditing and reporting requirementsat
the different implementation levels and other financial managementprocedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The Project financial management and cash flow arrangements are detailed inAnnex 6.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives consideredandreasons for rejection:
Two separate projects, (covering housing reform and upgrading respectively) were considered.
This alternative was mutually rejectedby GO1and the Bank at this time for the following reasons:
(a) housing sector reform and urban development are closely inter-related; and (b) both sectors
are the responsibility o f the same ministry - MHUD. Preparing two separateprojects would have
beentime consuming and costly to the ministry.

A Specific Investment Loan (SIL): Unlike an APL, this approach appeared too rigid, limiting
opportunities for learning to guide sequencing and roll-out to other localities in support o f the
government's broad national decentralization agenda.        The flexibility and longer time-frame
offered by an APL, by contrast, would allow to gradually internalize policy reforms and
consolidate institutional settings, approaches and procedures. For example, the pilot urban
upgrading and community enabling sub-projects during the first phase will be followed by an
expansion and diversification on a national scale; a secondary mortgage facility, which MHUDis
keen to get assistance on, can only be realized after a series o f reforms are enacted and relevant
financial and institutional infrastructure are inplace.
                                                                                                  9


2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).




                                                                       Implementation Development
 Bank-financed                                                          Progress(IP)  Objective (DO)

 Water                                   Tehran Sewerage Project(on         S              S
                                         going)
 UrbanDevelopment                        TehranDrainage(closed)
 UrbanDevelopment                        EarthquakeRecovery (closed)
 Water supply and sanitation             Sistan FloodControl(closed)
 3ther development agencies



                                                  -11-

3. Lessons learnedand reflected in the project design:
(a) Piloting,phasing, and sequencing of reforms: While the objective of freeing up housing
markets and devolving housing sector responsibilities to local governments and the private sector
i s clear, the Bank's experience shows that the means to realize this objective has to be carefully
thought through in terms of building the necessary capacity, information systems, and the
regulatory framework. Insome cases such as subsidy instruments or land management, programs
have to be pilotedto test their effectiveness before they are scaledup. Inothers such as building
codes, there is considerable local experience to allow for moving forward at the legislative level
early on.

(b) EnsuringReadiness of the Borrowerfor Implementation: The common lessoninthe past
Bank-financed projects is that ensuring / building an adequate capacity for carrying out Bank
Project specific activities such as procurement and disbursement are important. During Project
preparation, intensive advisory support on the Bank's fiduciary procedures has been provided, the
Bank will organize a seminar onprocurement and disbursement duringthe Project's launch paying
particular attention to the training needs o f Project implementation teams at the local level.

(c) Early Involvementof Main Stakeholders: MOI, MPO, participating municipalities and CBI
are the key stakeholders in municipal management, budget allocation and banking regulations.
These stakeholders have been fully involved in the program preparation and are fully committed
to the Project. The Project Team also consulted local communities inthe under-serviced areas in
the three pilot cities and initiated contacts with participating provincial governments and
coordinated with them during Project preparation. The early participation o f the stakeholders
proved to be important for ensuring acceptance and commitment and securing availability o f
counterpart funds and indicating priority investments inurbanupgrading.

(d) Sustainability of Upgrading Component: Projects that tend to focus on surgically
upgrading a neighborhood in the absence o f a citywide strategy and adequate capacity building
are not likely to be sustainable as demonstrated by Bank's prior experience in other projects.
Therefore, the Program focuses on training and capacity building o f city officials and takes a
citywide approachto upgrading.

(e) EnsuringAppropriate ProcurementEnvironmentinIran: during implementation o f other
Bank Projects in Iran it emerged that Loan Agreements are often not fully understood and
acceptedby the concernedofficials and precedenceis usually given to the local rules, particularly,
at the level o f local governments. In addition, the Iranian authorities have restrictive rules in
regards o f contracting foreign consultants, suppliers and contractors, which i s contrary to the
Bank's recommendedprocedures. Country procurement issues, which may be inconflict with the
Bank's recommendedprocedures, are presently beingaddressedby the Bank with the government
inorder to arrive at an acceptablesolution to beapplicable to all Bankprojects inIran.




                                                 - 1 2 -

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentand ownership:

The GOI's commitment to housing sector reforms i s strongly indicated in the 3rd Five Year
Development Plan and a number o f actual reforms undertaken in the last two years. Various
inter-ministerial and expert committees have been established to conduct required studies and take
appropriate decisions. A Policy Reform Action Plan and the National Upgrading Policy
Declaration have been submitted to the Bank and are available inthe project files.

Provincial authorities, city councils and communities in interested cities are actively participating
inthe preparation of the community enabling and upgrading components intheir cities. The'y all
have expressed commitment to share the costs. An inter-ministerial steering committee has also
been established to oversee the preparation and implementation of the program. A pipeline o f
first year investment projects has been prepared.        This was found to be satisfactorily and
according to the eligibility criteria detailed inSection E.

5. 'Valueadded of Bank support inthis project:
The Bank has acquired international experience in supporting housing reforms and urban
development. Throughoutthe MNA Region, the Bank has assisted borrowers on housing finance
(Jordan, WBG, Algeria, Egypt) and slum upgrading (Morocco, Tunisia , Algeria, Jordan). In
recent years, the Bank has been also renewing and strengthening its involvement in Iran through
several on-going lending and grant operations in sectors such as banking regulation, sewerage,
primary health care and local development.          The proposed Project will build on the Bank
international experience in housing reforms and incorporate lessons learnt from on going and
passed lending operations inIran.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
   Cost benefit     NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
The demand-driven nature of the Project implies that communities will determine the nature and
scope of each sub-project. Therefore, the costs and benefits of individual sub-projects can not be
completely identified and, hence, the economic rate of return for the whole Project estimated
ex-ante. The cost-benefit analysis will be carried out for each upgrading sub-project with total
costs of US$ 100,000 and above, except sub-projects with non-quantifiable benefits. Such cost
and benefit analysis for the individual sub-projects shall demonstrate a positive NPV and an ERR
equal or above the appropriate opportunity cost o f capital estimated at 12%. This is consistent
with recently Bank approvedprojects and is above the current real interest on long-term deposits.
The Project Team will review on a no-objection basis all sub-projects with total costs of US$
500,000 and above for works and US$250,000 and above for goods and a sample of sub-projects
below this threshold at its discretion.      This procedure will be reviewed as needed to ensure
adequate quality of the investment analysis. The detailed methodology for economic analysis for
typical sub-projects is included inAnnex 4.




                                                 - 1 3 -

International experience suggests that urban upgrading investments have broad positive economic
benefits such as:
(1) Investments in local infrastructure will create jobs for local contractors and develop local
technical skills and raise demand for local inputs by small local contractors.
(2) Investments in power infrastructure and street lighting will, among other things, increase
security and extend potential hours for education and economic activities.
(3) Improved water supply services will result in substantial direct and indirect benefits such as
better health and reduced household costs o f fetching water.
(4) Rehabilitation of access roads, sidewalks and street drainage will improve mobility of the
population and develop trade and local service activities inpreviously inaccessible neighborhoods.



Direct benefits from the above improvements are expected to greatly contribute to an increase in
property values and wealth of those living in currently under-serviced neighborhoods.              The
negative effects of the increase inproperty values on the low income households such as increase
inrents will be addressed indirectly throughreforms of the system of subsidies under Component
B of the Project and sub-sequent phases ofthe Program. While the impact of technical assistance
for institutional development and capacity building of LGs and communities in planning and
management infrastructure investments is very hard to quantify, Bank assistance in this area is
expected to result in significant benefits. Inparticular, the Project will empower communities and
establish a partnership between communities and LGs. It will lay the basis for more participatory
development planning, more responsive local services and better accountability of the LGs
towards communities. Inaddition, it will facilitate:
(1) Better city planning and management processes that are more responsive to the local needs
and conducive to local economic development.
(2) Improved financial management capacity of LGs to implement and operate infrastructure
projects.
(3) Incorporation of the currently substandard neighborhoods into the municipal revenue base.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
As indicated above, the Project is demand-driven and, thus, it is impossible to carry out an ex-ante
financial analysis of sub-projects. Proven financial viability of each sub-project will have to be
provided prior to committing any funding under the Project. Therefore, financial analysis will be
carried out: (i)to ensure the municipality's or responsible agency's ability to cover operating and
maintenance expenses of the additional infrastructure sub-projects; and (ii)  to ensure that the fiscal
impact o f the additional investment funding on their budget is small (4.5%-5% o f annual capital
expenditure). Similarly to the procedure for the economic analysis, the Project Team will review
o n a no-objection basis all sub-projects with total costs of US$ 200,000 and above and a sample
of sub-projects below this threshold at its discretion. This procedure will be reviewed as needed
to ensure adequate quality of the investment analysis. The detailed methodology for financial
analysis for typical sub-projects is included inAnnex 5.

Financial analysis will be required for investments that are: (i) the direct responsibility of the
                                                                under
municipality; and (ii) inhealth, education and water & sewage. These investments are expected to




                                                -14-

constitute majority o f the works financed under the Project.          For all other infrastructure
investments, the responsibility for operating and maintenance (O&M) will be transferred to
cognizant utilities or ministries, for which a formal letter of hand-over and O&M acceptance
would be requested. Whenever direct beneficiaries of the sub-projects will be identifiable on an
individual basis (Le. the corresponding households) the recovery of recurrent costs must in
principle be adopted. This would be the case primarily for those sub-projects that are revenue
generating such as water provision. Financial sustainability o f sub-projects that are not revenue
generating such as access roads, storm drainage and public lighting will be ensured by
municipalities either throughlocal revenues or state transfers. As the upgraded neighborhoods will
be incorporated in the municipal revenue base it is expected that the additional revenues from
these neighborhoods such as garbage collection fees and construction permits will offset the
additional operating and maintenance costs resulting from the Project investments.

Fiscal Impact:

(i) the nationallevel: The fiscalimpactatthenational levelwillbenegligibleastheloan
    At
amount composes a small share of the total GO1 annual budget. Positive fiscal effects will be
achieved through housing sector reforms due to reduced burden on the government's budget as
the private sector will be able to gradually replace at least part of the govemment's role in
housing supply and subsidies will be streamlined.

(ii) thelocallevel: Nonegativeimpactonthelocalbudgetsisexpectedasmostofthefunding
    At
will be providedto the local governments inthe form of grants and Project activities. Rather, the
project is expected to result in increased revenues and improved management efficiency. The
required co-financing of investment costs by the local governments will be rather small (about
5%) and will not create excessive demands o n reallocation o f budgets. Thus, the main fiscal
impact will be inthe form of annual O&M for the undertaken investment sub-projects. Assuming
that an average grant to a municipality will be US$ 15 million, 33% of which will be invested in
infrastructure under the municipal mandate, the additional annual O&M costs resulting from the
Project will be US$150,000 assuming a 3% O&M ratio. Due to the fact that each municipal
revenue source i s allocated to a specific expense item based on centrally mandated ratios, the
current allocation of expenses allows for adequate maintenance and there appears to be no need
to create separate O&M funds for the Project.

The expected benefits of the Project, particularly, technical assistance to the local governments
will be allocation of public resources more in line with local needs and increased capacity and
expertise in efficient implementation of investment projects.        In addition, due to expected
appreciation of property values and increase in formal housing through regularization of land
tenure inthe previously informal areas, the Project is likely to broaden the local property tax base
which will have a significant positive impact on the municipal revenue in participating cities In
addition, the Project will stimulate local economic development generating additional income and
other tax revenues to the LGs. Thus, the net fiscal impact of these improvements is expected to
substantially outweigh costs associated with the implementation of the Project.




                                               -15-

3. Technical:
Most of the infrastructure sub-projects are expected to be simple. Ample local capacity exists for
construction, civil works and engineering and main construction materials are readily available.
Some o f the smaller civil works could be designed as labor-intensive operations such as use o f
self-locking blocks for street pavement, to promote employment and encourage the participation
of small local construction f m s .

4. Institutional:
(i)The Project and the subsequent phases ofthe Programwill provide technical assistance and
training to strengthen management capacity of participating municipalities in accordance with
their newly acquired responsibilities and with the additional requirements resulting from the
program. The Project will pilot community-based initiatives to raise local capacity in this area.
This experience will be documented and widely disseminated.

(ii) Coordination of investments at the local level: Investments at the local level are carried out
by some 26 local organizations, all regional antenna's of either ministries or national utilities, with
little or no coordination. The Project will seek to place participating municipalities at the hub of
urban development in their respective jurisdiction through the introduction of the new
participatory planning tools.

(iii) Regularization of land titles: to address the issue of social exclusion inurban areas and lack
of property titles in informal settlements the Project will attempt to develop a mechanism to
facilitate the regularization of these informal settlements.

Formore details, see Annexes 6 and 11-13.


4.1 Executing agencies:

MHUD will be responsible for the overall execution, procurement, financial management and
coordination of the program. At the local level, an Executive Officer (EO) will be nominated by
the MHUD and the local Executive Upgrading Committee (EUC). He/she will be responsible for
the Project implementation at the local level and will be located at the MHUD provincial office.
EO will act as contract manager for the specialized regional organizations and will operate under
the umbrella of the local EUC.

The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be located at and will report to the MHUD and will
solely serve the proposed Project. The PMU will rely on two Technical Units TUA and TUB to
be established at UDRO and NLHO respectively.           The Government has hired highly qualified
managerial staff - the Project Director and Managers of the TUA and TUB. The units will each
have a core staff complemented as necessary by specialized short-term consultants to meet peak
workloads and/or to provide specialized expertise. The Project Team carried out a detailed
analysis o f the local capacity to implement the project. There is significant supply of highly
qualified technical specialists. However, there is very limited experience with the management of
Bank financed projects and Bank's procedures. Therefore, training of the core staff inthe various



                                                 - 16-

programspecialties and inBankprocedures will be provided for under the Project.

4.2 Project management:

An Inter-ministerial Steering Committee with representatives from the Ministry of Interior,
Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Planning and Management Organization, the High
Commission for Architecture and Urban Development, and the Urban Development and
Rehabilitation Organization has been established during Project preparation. Its main role is to
provide guidance to the reform strategy and to the design of the Program.                       During the
implementation of Phase Iof the program, the ISC will be incharge o f Program oversight. It will
meet quarterly to review progress, coordinate decisions and remove impediments to the timely
implementation of the Program.

4.3 Procurement issues:

The Bank conducted a h b l i c Expenditure Review (PER) mission in 2003 which had shed lights
on the public procurement environment in Iran. As a result, main issues that Bank-financed
projects encounter were identified and dialogue between the Bank and GO1to resolve them was
initiated in end of 2003. The Bank agreed with GOI, represented by MEAF to formulate a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that will set the steps towards reaching a framework
agreement to ensure adequate procurement and implementation arrangements for Bank financed
projects in Iran. In the interim, and until finalizing the MOU, arrangement set forth in Annex 6
will be followed. The capacity of MHUD, UDRO, and NLHO to carry out procurement
according to World Bank Guidelines is limited. Therefore, as various bidding documents need to
be prepared and launched inthe first year, it i s essential for competent procurement officers to be
recruited by the end of June 2004.

4.4 Financial management issues:

The financial management risks are considered moderate. This rating is due to the lack of a ready
available accounting system capable to generate periodical project reports. The risk will be
mitigated by hiring a qualified financial officer to follow up on and operate a ring fenced
accounting system whose development contract is in the process of being awarded. The hiring of
the financial officer is a condition for the project board presentation. Also, the Bank will perform
intensive supervision and assist the MHUD to generate on timely basis the project financial
reports.

The flow of finds risk is considered as low. The loanproceeds and counterpart finds channeled in
the form of grants to the MHUD may only be disbursed after two budget lines are opened within
the government budget and a framework agreement is signed between the MPO and the ministry
detailing the project duration and activities. Accordingly, the MPO committed to the opening of
the project budget accounts, within the government budget law, and to the signing of the
framework agreement detailing the implementation arrangements for the FY commencing on
March 21, 2004. (Financial Management arrangements are detailed inAnnex 6).
5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The Project has been classified as Category B as per the Bank's Operational Policy 4.01 Annex C
onEnvironmentalAssessment, indicating that there are reversible environmental issues that can be


                                                    -17-

mitigated. Due to the fact that the Project has a participatory approach and specific sub-projects
will only be defined during the course of the Program,                it is not possible to cany out
environmental analysis ex-ante. The UUHRP is expected to bring significant environmental and
health benefits and no major environmental issues are anticipated.            A number of potential
investment sub-projects have been received from the interested cities. A Bank consultant
conducted a desk screening o f these proposals and no irreversible impacts that could arise from
these sub-projects were identified.

EMP for the Project was prepared in conjunction with the feasibility studies in Bandar-Abbas,
Kermanshah and Zahedan and approved by the Bank. During the first year, environmental
screening and assessment will be reviewed by the Project Team on a no-objection basis. During
the second year, an evaluation o f national capacities for approving environmental assessment will
be carried out and a decision on the further set up will be taken. The environmental category and
requirements for APL2 and 3 will be re-assessed duringthe appraisal o fboth subsequent phases.

5.2 What are the mainfeatures of the EMP and are they adequate?

The EMP includes: (i)       description o f institutional and regulatory framework with regards to
environmental protection, (ii)    assessment o f the capacity o f implementing and executing agencies
inenvironmental assessmentsandidentification ofmitigationmeasures, (iii)         procedures for proper
screening, environmental assessment and monitoring, and (iv) description o fthe capacity building
activities to be implemented to raise environmental awareness and to strengthen capacity o f
municipalities.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                     Date of receipt of final draft: March 2003
The EMP was disclosed in the MHUD, Department of Environment (DOE), and the Bank's
InfoShop prior to appraisal. The draft environmental guidelines will be finalized and incorporated
into the Operations Manual prior to negotiations.

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and(b) draf? EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Throughout the preparation o f the Project, the technical, financial, environmental and social issues
associatedwith the Project were discussedinmeetings attendedby consultants, representatives o f
municipalities and various other concerned stakeholders. The EMP was developed in close
coordination with concerned institutional stakeholders, MHUD and was reviewed and approved
by the DOE. Consultation at the level of sub-project will be conducted as part o f the preparation
of the city-wide upgrading and community enabling program. Provisions to ensure appropriate
public consultation at the subproject level will be integrated in the procedural guidelines to be
integrated inthe Operations Manual.

5.5 What mechanismshave been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults of the EMP?

During the first year, environmental screening and assessment will be reviewed by the Project
Team on a no-objection basis. During the second year, an evaluation o f national capacities for
approving environmental assessment will be camed out and a decision on the hrther set up will


                                                     -18-

be taken. The environmental category and requirements for APL2 and 3 will be re-assessed during
the appraisal of bothsubsequent phases.

Each investment sub-project presented under the UUHRP will be subject to environmental
screening and assessment. An EMP and the Environmental Guidelines Manual (EGM) have been
developed during Project preparation and will compose an integral part of the Program's
Operations Manual.       The EGM describe how subprojects shall be evaluated to ensure that
environmental and social safeguards are enforced and World Bank policies are complied with. If
a subproject is found to include substantial environmental impacts, both the EMP and the EGM
provide W h e r procedures for addressing them or altering the design o f the subproject are also
provided. The EMP includes adequate guidance for proper supervision and monitoring, including
the identification of the responsible organizations. Potential indicators for assessing the
performance of the program have also been developed. The Bank will receive regular reports
from the PMUonthe progress ofthe Project, including environmental status.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

A rapid social assessment was carried-out during Project preparation. The results were used to
identify target neighborhoods and stakeholders and were key to formulating priority investments.
Initial information was collected for the baseline assessments on access to urban services in the
three pilot cities. A s part of the Project implementation more in-depth baseline social assessments
will be conducted in all participating cities, including assessment of needs of the population
potentially benefiting from the Project. This will include household surveys and thematidfocused
group discussions. The outcomes of the above assessments, particularly, the expressed needs and
the willingness to participate financially (for cost-recovery),        will be reflected in upgrading
sub-projects and other community-based schemes. Identification and design of individual
sub-projects will involve potential beneficiaries using participatory methods in assessment, CBO
formation and strengthening.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?

a. Primary beneficiaries andother affected groups:
The rapid social assessment carried-out during Project preparation included series of focus groups
inthe under-serviced areas ofBandar-Abbas, KermanshandZahedan. Basedonthe results, target
neighborhoods were identified and priority investments formulated. Based on the initial
consultations it is also expected that households will be willing to contribute to the financing
O&M costs o f investments as focus groups revealed that they are willing to pay for rehabilitation
and upgrading of their neighborhoods. The Project also emphasizes community involvement inthe
monitoring ofthe implementation o f sub-projects intheir neighborhoods.

In line with the methodology being piloted in Zahedan for subsequent adoption by other cities,
inclusive city-wide upgrading and community enabling strategies will be prepared through a
participatory approach. Participants will include target populatiodresidents, various stakeholders
such as representatives of national government (sector ministry representatives at the provincial
level), participating municipalities, local NGOs and professional associations. TA and capacity
buildingwill be provided as appropriate to strengthen existing CBOs and local NGOs, diversify
their services and increase their contributions to Project implementation. All the key stakeholders


                                                  -19-

of the housing sector reforms - MPO, MHUD, MEAF, CBI, Bank Maskan - were involved
andor consulted throughout the preparation o f the Project. Specific reforms, Project triggers,
outputs and outcome indicators were discussed. A number o f key stakeholders such as CBI and
MHUDwill be directlyinvolvedinthe implementationofspecific reformsunderthe Project.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

Physical Upgrading Programs will be developed in a participatory manner with broad
consultations with the main stakeholders, including communities. Furthermore, the Project
includes Community Enabling Programs aimed at improving access to specialized social services
and satisfying the needs of vulnerable groups. The component will build on the existing local
initiatives, social networks and spontaneous mutual support systems inthe major cities o f Iran. It
will involve Participatory implementation of socio-economic programs in the informal
settlements o f the participating cities. This will be implemented through joint ventures o f
international and national NGOsand CBOs incollaboration with local governments.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

A specialized division in the TUA and the coordinators of community initiatives in each
participating municipality will monitor and evaluate the social impact o f sub-projects throughout
the implementation of the Project. For this purpose a number of impact indicators will be
monitored at the central and local levels to ensure that subprojects are achieving their social
development outcomes. In addition, the Project envisages a Capacity building program in
community enablingfor NGOs, CBOs and participating municipalities. Particular attention will
be paid to institutionalizing the mechanisms for community participation in urbanupgrading and
socio-economic development programs ininformal settlements and at the city level. The specific
programs will be identified, designedand implementedby local NGOs, CBOs, PVOs, national and
international universities and municipalities with close participation o f the local beneficiary
communities and local governments.

6.5 How will the project monitorperformance interms of social development outcomes?

It has been agreed with the Borrower that the TUA staffing will include social development
specialists that would concentrate on the monitoring and evaluation o f the Project, including
social development areas. The project also envisages carrying out beneficiary impact assessments
through surveys, focus groups and/or other methods as needed.




                                                  - 20 -

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

The EGM describes how sub-projects shall be evaluated to ensure that environmental and social
safeguards are enforced and World Bank policies are complied with. If a subproject is found to
include substantial environmental impacts its provides further procedures for addressing them or
altering the design of the subproject are also provided.

During the first year, environmental screening and assessment will be reviewed by the Project
Team on a no-objection basis. During the second year, an evaluation of national capacities for
approving environmental assessment will be carried out and a decision on the fiuther set up will
be taken. The environmental category and requirements for APL2 and 3 will be re-assessed during
the appraisal of both subsequent phases.         Sub-projects involving resettlement and squatter
displacement will not be eligible for fundingunder the APL1. Ifany resettlements will be required
in APL2 and/or APL 3, they would follow the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and
guidelines for the preparation of resettlement action plans developed during preparation.
Appropriate measures for squatter compensation have been agreed upon with the Borrower and
are included inthe RPF (available inthe project files).

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

The benefits of the Program are expected to be sustainable due to the strong emphasis on
sequencing of reforms, capacity building and institutional development. There is also clear
commitment by important stakeholders at the national and local government levels and
considerable participation of communities in the design of the Project at all stages. The housing
sector reform will reduce the budgetary burden of the government following the streamlining of
housing subsidies (Annex 1b) and as the private sector plays a greater role inhousing supply.




                                                 -21 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                            Risk Rating     I            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
- Lack o f sustainedcommitment to                        S          - Continuing   dialogue with BankandIMFon
financial sector reforms.                                           financial sector reforms.
- Lack o f sustained commitment to                       S          - Housing reforms are set as triggers for APL2
housing sector reforms and slow decision                            and APL3.
makingprocess.
- Different approaches within GO1to                      N          - Formalization of   a national upgrading policy
urban upgrading.                                                    developed through a participatory process.
From Components to Outputs
- Capacity ofparticipating municipalities                H          - Technical   assistance and contract staffwill be
to implement the program andcoordinate                              provided to strengthen capacities.
the various organizations operating at city                         - ExecutiveUpgrading      Committees already
level.                                                               establishedat the provincial level have so far
                                                                     contributed to a better coordination.
- Capacity  o f MHUDto coordinate the                    S           - Inter-ministerial Steering Committee already
Project at the national (with MOI, CBI,                              active at the national level headedby MOI.
MPO) andthe local levels (municipalities,                            ExecutiveUpgrading Committee at the local
provinces, service agencies).                                        level headedby Provincial Deputy Governor.
                                                                     - Commitment     from MHUDand MPO to
I                                                                    appoint qualified staffat adequatecompensation
                                                                    to manage the Project.
                                                                     - Fundsprovided under the Project for the
                                                                     training o f Project management staff.
- Incompatible  GO1and Bank                              S           - This issuei s currently being addressedby the
procurement procedures.                                              Bankwith the government. Duringthe interim
                                                                     period anduntilthe agreement is reachedwith
                                                                     the GOI, satisfactory procurement arrangements
                                                                     have been agreed (Annex 6a).
Overall Risk Rating                                      S
Risk Rating- H (High Risk),S (SubstantialRi: , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
NIA.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

None.




                                                       - 22 -

         2. Other [classify according to covenanttypes used in the Legal Agreements.]
         Board conditions
         Nominate a qtialifiedJinancia1 ofleer at the MHUD in Tehran (met).

         Dated covenants
         Technical UnitA and Technical Unit B to be establishednot later than July 31, 2004 to assist the PMU
         (Section E.4.).

         Financialcovenants
         None.

         H. Readinessfor Implementation
        0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirst year'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
                 of project implementation.
        Kl 1.b)Notapplicable.

        02.Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthe              start o f
               project implementation.
            3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraised and foundto be realistic ando f satisfactory
               quality.
        04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):

         The procurement documentation for ICB has beenagreed. Documentationfor NCB shall be prepared and
         submitted to the Bank for its approval by the end o fJune 2004.

         I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
        ixI1. Thisproject complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
        02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
               all other applicable Bank policies.




         4.#Atnwd--
                --             ---     -                                          '          A
               "
         Sateh Chafic El-Amaout
          ~-                                      Emmanuel Forestier                  Joseph P. Saba
    /*-I

-4-
         Team Leader                              Sector Director                     Country ManagerlDirector




                                                           - 23 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project
                                   Key Performance             Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                    CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       sector Indicators:              jectorl country reports:   from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support for reforms and       3reat role o fthe marketin Jousing survey, Household mprovinghousing
xonomic management, the       :he housing sector and           )urvey,Poverty reports,    :onditions is an important
socialprotection agenda and -educedvulnerability due to gHLO (National Housing            :lement inreducing overall
nanagement o f environment lousing conditions (housing md Land Organization)              rulnerability, andhence
mdnatural resources as        iffordability, security o f      eports.                    )overty.
iefmedinthe Interim CAS.      :enure, and access to
                              services).



Jrogram Purpose:               Snd-of-ProgramIndicators:       'rogram reports:           from Purpose to Goal)
Facilitate the transition to a    House price to income        CR, PAD for the APL 2,     lccess to affordable and
narket ledhousing sector          ratio: 4.5                   dHUDreports, CBI           iecurehousing i s central to
while improving living            (base line:                  eports, Social Assessment, 3overnment's social
:onditions for low and                 - Tehran: 6.6           3eneficiary Impact         irotection agenda inIran.
noderate income                        - Esfahan: 8.4          lssessments.
iouseholds inIran.                     - Shiraz: 6.6
                                       - Mashad: 7.1
                                       - Tabriz: 5
                                       - Ahvaz:4.8)

                                  Percentageo f insecure
                                  settlements: less than 1C
                                  percent
                                  (base line: 25%)

                                  Housing credit/GDP: 9
                                  percent
                                  (base line: 2.8%)

                               0  Demand-sidehousing
                                  subsidies: at least 30
                                  percent o f the total
                                  budgetedhousing
                                  subsidies.
                                  (baseline: 0% of
                                  budgeted housing
                                  subsidies.)

4PL1 (5 years):               jpecific triggers for APL                                   Xegulatory andmacro
.Institutean integrated       !and 3 are indicatedin                                      :nvironment is ready for a
tpproach to upgrading         innex lb.                                                   narket-based housing
nformal settlements;                                                                      sector.
. Lay the foundation
:systems, capacity,                                                                       rhere is a political support


                                                         - 24 -

framework) for andinitiate                   to reforms.
housing sector reforms.

APL2 (4 vears):                              The decentralization process
- Up-scaling  urban                          has evolved so as to allow
upgradingto the national                     landusedecisions and
level.                                       municipal management
- Launchinghousing sector                    /investment decisions to be
reforms with a focus on                      made at the local level.
deepeningthe housing
finance sector and
streamlining the subsidies
system.
APL3 (3 vears):
- Increasethe amount of
long-term resources for
housing finance channeled
through the financial
markets.
- Address the more complex
problems ofthe
revitalization of rundown
historic city centers andthe
preservation o f historic sites
and cultural heritage.
- Buildlocal  government
capacity inurban
managementina
decentralized context.




                                   - 25 -

                                 KeyIndicators
                                      Performance
                                                                                             Critical Assumptions
                            P
'roject Development         Outcome I Impact               'roject reports:              from Objective to Purpose)
)bjective:                  Indicators:
iPL 1:                      1.1. Increasein service        ..lSurveys o f targeted
                                                              .                            .1.Sustained commitment
. Improveliving             coverage andimproved           iettlements, Project          o alleviate poverty and
onditions inunder serviced  access to basic                )regress reports, Social      mprove living conditions of
ieighborhoods inupto 5      infrastructure services in     issessment, Beneficiary       he population on part o f
irovincial capital cities.  upgraded settlements.          mpact Assessments.            301andprovincial
                            Baseline: to be established                                  ;overnments.
                            by a survey oftargeted
                            settlements.

                            1.2. Increaseinthe level o f   I.2. Surveys o f households    . .2. Timely enactment and
                            satisfaction o fhouseholds in ntargeted settlements,         nforcement o fthe law on
                            upgraded settlementswith       'roject progress reports,     lecentralization and
                            their living conditions.       social assessment,            ;ovemance.
                            Baseline: to be established    3eneficiary Impact
                            by a survey of households      Issessments.
                            inthe targetedsettlements.


                            1.3. Improvedmunicipal         1.3. Capacity assessment o f
                            capacity to plan               iarticipating municipalities,
                            development, coordinate        3eneficiary Impact
                            investments andcommunity \ssessments, Project
                            initiatives inparticipating    irogress reports.
                            municipalities.

!. Preparethe systems,      2.1. Public landin             ?.1. MHUDdocumentation, 1. ContinuousGovernment
:apacity andregulatory      jurisdictions o fparticipating 'roject progress reports,     :o"itment     to reforming
oundationfor and initiate   municipalities allocated ina MTR and ICR.                    :hehousing sector.
narket basedhousing sector  transparent manner and in
eforms.                     responseto demand in
                            participating areas.           1.2. Project progress
                            2.2. Established system for    -eports, MTR and ICR.
                            introducing demand side
                            housing subsidies.             1.3. and 2.4. CBI reports,
                            2.3. Reduced liquidityrisk     ?rojectprogress reports,
                            associatedwith loan linked     MTR and ICR.
                            housing savings schemes -
                            maintained positive net
                            treasury position.
                            2.4. Increased efficiency of
                            primary housing finance
                            markets with active
                            participationo fthe private
                            banks as demonstrated by
                            mortgage loans issued by at
                            least 6 banks, 3 of which


                                                      - 26 -

                             are private.




Outputfrom each               Output Indicators:              'roject reports:          'from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component A. Urban
Upgrading
1. Studies for the            1. Prepared studies for the     . Study reports, Project
                                                               .                         1. Studies identifyaspects
preparation o f community     preparation o f community       )regress reports.         :hat are important for
enabling andurban&           enabling andurban&                                         :ffective community
institutional upgrading       institutional upgrading                                   :nabling and urbanand
programs.                     programs.                                                 .nstitutionalupgrading
                                                                                        ?rogramsintargeted areas.


2. Urban upgrading in         2. Actual upgrading             !.ProjectProgressreports,  2. Adequate capacity of
participating municipalities. investments carried out per     VITR, ICR, Social         ?articipatingmunicipalities
                              tender documents inpoor         Issessments,Beneficiary   :oimplement the program
                              neighborhoods such as            mpact Assessments.       mdcoordinate the various
                              rehabilitation and upgrading                              xganizations operating at
                              ofpreschool, school and                                   :ity level.
                              health facilities, roads,
                              sidewalks, drainage and
                              street lighting,public
                              markets, community and
                              cultural centers,
                              improvements ofwater and
                              sewerageservices and other.

3. Institutional buildingin   3.1. Completed CDS with         I. Same as above.         3. Continuedcommitment tc
participatingmunicipalities. broad participation in at                                  Decentralization.
                              least 3 participating cities.
                             3.2. Number o f municipal
                             employees trained.

4. Community enabling in      4. Pilot community led          1. Same as above.         4.1. Timely mobilization o f
participatingmunicipalities. projects completed,                                         social intermediation.
                             documentedand                                               4.2. Continuing commitmen
                              disseminatedinthe                                         to decentralization.
                              participatingmunicipalities.

5. Preparedpipeline of        5. Prepared feasibility         i.Sameasabove.            5. Continuing commitment
enabling and upgrading        studies for sub-projects to                               to enabling andupgrading.
sub-projects for APL 2, if 3e implemented during
any.                          4PL2, ifany.




                                                         - 27 -

ComponentB. Housing
Sector Reform

Housingandland
management:
1. Revised buildingcodes      I. Formallyadoptedrevised      1. Adopted revisedlegal     ..Revisedbuildingcodes
and standardsfor housing      buildingcodes and              locuments.                  w i l l improve safety against
constructionthat address      standards.                                                 :arthquake.
earthquake andaffordability
concerns.

2. Introduced system for      2. Establishedandoperating 2. Documentation by             !.Landmanagementsystem
marketresponsive supply of transparent systemfor             MHUD o f all public land    w i l l provide information and
public land.                  releasing public land          leveloped within municipal   ncentives to policy makers
                              systematically andin           ioundary or future           .espondto market demand.
                              responseto market demand       levelopment zone, with
                              for urban expansion in         narket analysis justifying
                              participating cities.          he timing, size and
                                                             .ocation.

Housingfinance:
3. Completedreform o f the    3. Adoptednecessary            3. Documents, reports        3. CBI will effectively use
existingloan linkedhousing    framework anddeveloped         ireparedby CBIbasedon        he developed system and
savingsproducts to reduce     asset-liability management     h e computer models and     nodels for assessing
liquidityriskandfuture        model for assessingand         mditor opinions.             iquidityriskand
state contingent liabilities. monitoring liquidityrisk and                               jupervising its management
                              contingent liabilities o f                                 3y banking institutions.
                              existing housing savings
                              products (Bank Maskan).

4. Establishingthe basis for 4. Eliminatedthe                1.Reportsprepared by         1.Overallenvironment will
fair competition for housing  preferential regulatory        ZBI, Quarterly reports,      3e conducive for the
finance operations for all    treatment for the Bank         PSRs, MTR, ICR.              levelopment o fprivate
bankinginstitutions.          Maskan for all market                                       2anks.
                              basedtransactions.

Housingsubsidies:
5. Established system for     5. Established information     5. Yearly public reports by  5. Subsidy tracking system
monitoring and evaluating     systemand data on housing      :he NLHO outlining costs,    will reveal deficiencies in
housing subsidies - costs,    subsidiescollected on a        :fficiency,transparencyanc   :xisting framework andwill
efficiency, transparency and  regular basis and reports      impact o fthe subsidy        De usedby the policy
their impact.                 are produced andpublicly       system.                      makers to addressthem.
                              disseminated annually.

6. Development instruments 5. Formally approved              i.Adoptedlegaldocuments.     i.Thedesignedsubsidy
for demand side housing       nstruments for demand side                                  nstruments will improve



                                                        - 28 -

"
subsidies that are explicit, lhousing subsidies.                                        housing affordability for low
transparent andwell                                                                     income households.
targeted.
                                                                                        I
Housinginformation:
7. Establishedeffective      7. System for collecting data   .Actual reportsO n national7. Housing information
system for monitoring        and monitoring national         ousingand landmarkets      system will result inbetter
national housing markets     housing and land markets        ~ ~ d u candPublicly
                                                                      e d               decision making by policy
available to policy makers   operational.                    LsseminatedbYthe NHLo      makers and investors.
andinvestors.

[Componentc.Project
  anagementandTechnical
Assistance.
1. Support to the            1. PMU, TUA and TUB              Supervision missions.
establishment o fthe PMU,    established, and fully staffed
TUA andTUB.                  andequipped.

2. Technical Assistance.     2. National and intemational     Supervision missions and
                             consultants hiredto provide     :ocurement plan.
                             technical support to the
                             PMU, TUA and TUB.




                                                       - 29 -

                                                                             -    CriticalAssumptions
'roject Components I   Inputs: (budget for each     )reject reports:           [from Componentsto
iub-components:        component)                                              Outputs)
  - URBAN UPGRADING    US$89.62 million             'roject progress reports,  Adequate capacity o f
                                                    'SRs, MTR, ICR, Social    MHUDto coordinate the
                                                    lssessments, Beneficiary   Project.
                                                    mpact Assessments.
:- HOUSINGSECTOR      US$3.0million                                            Counterpart funds are
LEFORM                                                                         mobilizedina timely
                                                                              manner.
                      US$2.0 million
    PROJECT                                                                    Staff o f implementing
8 -

dANAGEMENT &                                                                   agencies hiredina timely
'ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                           manner andis well-trained
                                                                               inBankprocurement and
                                                                               disbursement procedures.


1- NON-ALLOCATED       US$4.58 million                                         MHUD,MPO,andCBI
                                                                               coordinate studies
                                                                               effectively.




                                               - 30 -

                           Annex lb: Triggers for APL2 andAPL3
           ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN- Urban UpgradingandHousingReformI

                                   Triggers for APL2 (year 5)
       PolicyArea                     Trigger                                   Indicator
COMPONENT A
1.Unifiednationalurban(a) Established an integrated "urban       (a) upgrading sub-chapter established under
upgradingpolicyand    upgradingbudget" at national level.        the Urban Development Chapter o fthe
instruments                                                      Budget.
COMPONENT B
2. Housingand land    (a) Established transparent system for     (a) Documentationby MHUDon all public
management            releasing public landsystematically andin  landdeveloped within the municipal
I                     responseto market demandinplace for        boundary or future development zone o f the
                      urbanexpansion inat least 3 participating  participating cities as per results o f market
                      cities.                                    analysis thatjustifies the timing, size and
                                                                 location.
3. Developingprimary  (a) Establishedbasis for fair competition  (a) Removedthe preferentialtreatment for
housingfinancemarket  for commercial housing finance operations  the Bank Maskan as per results o f relevant
                      for all banking institutionsinterms o f    studies under PhaseIcarried out by
                      legal, regulatory and subsidy framework.   international experts.
                      (b) Establishedregulationandsupervision    (b) Promulgatedregulation for new
                      o fnew and/or restructured housing savings and/or restructured housing savings
                      products.                                  scheme andassigned supervision
                                                                 caDacitv.
4. Establishingthe    (a) Establishedpublic information system   (a) Yearly public reports by the Govemmenl
necessarymarket       for land andhousing markets, including     outlining cost, efficiency, andsocial impact
informationsystemand  housing subsidies.                         o f current housing subsidy system.
streamlininghousing   (b) Adopted direct, well targeted and      (b) Adopted legaldocuments for introductioi
subsidies             explicitly budgeted demand side housing    o f demand side housing subsidies.
                      subsidv instruments.




                                                -31  -

                                 Triggers for APL3 (year 9)
   Policv Area                     Trigger                                    Indicator
1.Housingand land   (a) City Development Strategies (CDS)       (a) Letters of endorsement o f the CDS
management          completedwith broadparticipationand         results by the office ofthe Vice Minister
                    incorporatedinmaster plans o f              o f UrbanPlanning and Architecture and
                    participatingcities.                        evidence o f integration o f CDS outputs
                    (b)Established anoperating systemfor        into future master plans as reflectedin
                    releasing public landsystematically and     respective TORSfor the preparation of
                    inresponseto market demandfor urban         such master plans.
                    expansion inall provincial capital cities.  (b) Documentationby MHUDo fall
                                                                public landdeveloped within municipal
                                                                boundary or future development zone o f
                                                                theparticipatingcities as per results of
                                                                market analysis that justifies the timing,
                                                                size, and location.
2. Developing       (a) Unifiedmortgage market, including       (a) Mortgage lenders charging rates
primary housing     full range ofproducts, market               reflecting cost o f capital andoperations
finance market      determined interest rates and expanded      andhousing finance subsidies, ifany, are
                    access to mortgage loans.                   explicitly budgeted by the government.
                                                                (b) Portfolioofmortgage loans issuedby
                                                                non-specialized commercial banks
                                                                increased by 50% from its level at the
                                                                beginning o f APL1, ifthe average
                                                                annual inflation during the period rate is
                                                                below 10 YO.
                                                                (c) The national average loan-to-value
                                                                ratio for new housing loans reachesat
                                                                least 50 YO.
3. Streamlining     I) Introduceddirect demand side housing     (a) Demand side housing subsidies
housingsubsidies    ubsidies that are targeted at low income    represent at last 30% of the total
                    ouseholds.                                  budgeted housing subsidies.
                                                                (b) Yearly housing subsidy reports
                                                                generatedby NLHO onthe new housing
                                                                subsidies and evaluation oftheir impact
                                                                on low income households andmarket.




                                             - 32 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
     ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgradingand Housing Reform Project

The Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Program aims at supporting the Government's effort
in the housing sector in (a) providing secure affordable housing to low to moderate income
households; and (b) further developing the market institutions o f the housing sector (finance,
construction, real estate). The Program objectives will be achieved through a three-phase
Adaptable Program Lendingover a period o ftwelve years. The Program would address the issues
identifiedinthe strategic context ofthe mainPAD. APL2 and APL3 will be triggered by meeting
specific milestones (triggers). These triggers have been         selected from the list o f triggers
suggestedinthe Housing Strategy action plans.

APLl is divided into three main components that focus on: (i)urban upgrading, community
enabling and capacity building, (ii)    institutional development and capacity building for Housing
sector reforms and, (iii)  Project management.

By Component:

ProjectComponentA: Urban Upgrading US$90.00million
                                         -
This Component lays the foundations for launching and sustainingcountry-wide urbanupgrading
programs inIran. The Program will be implementedinpre-identified cities and neighborhoods that
meet specific criteria interms o f income and level o f services. The city o f Zahedan, the capital o f
Sistan-Balushetan, the province having the worst housing and employment conditions, has been
identified as the first city with four categorieso fneighborhoods for upgrading.

An operating model will be developed in Zahedan for adaptation and generalization to other
cities. Participating cities will be selected by the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee among the
28 provincial capitals based on their housing and employment conditions and readiness criteria
such as: (i) adopting the government's national upgrading strategy; (ii)     agreeing to the technical
assistance and capacity building program, (iii)        prepare a demand driven city upgrading and
enabling program through a participatory and inclusive process, and; (iv) agreeing to sign a
performance contract specifling the commitments and obligations o f the State, the Municipality,
participating communities, and relevant organizations operating at city level.

The Table below provides a classification o f the provincial capitals interms of quality o f housing
and employment. Participating cities under APLl are likely to be cities inthe lower right side o f
the table.




                                                   - 33 -

I                                                    Housing conditions
I                Best condition      Proper   I   Acceptable conditionI  Improper condition
                                                                            -  -           I      Critical
I                              II   condition    1                                           1  condition
                                                                                           I               I
                                                  Bakhtiyan
                                                  AzarbayjanGharbi
                                                  Ardabil
  0                                            I  AzarbaydjanSharghi   I
  Y    I       1
               I Teheran       I Harmadan
                 Markazi         Isfahan
                                 Semnan
  N              Yazd            Khorasan
  T                            I Ghom
               I Oazvin        I Fars         I ZanianMazandaran       I Golestan          I Kurdistan
  C                              Booshehr
  0                                               Khoozeztan             Gilan
 N                                                Kohgilooyeva booyer
  D.    Worst    Hormozogan      Lorestan         Eelam                  Kermanshahan         Sistanva



The regions are classified according to a relative standard score showing how different the
performance o f the region is compared to the average performance o f all regions. The four
indicators used are household density, percentageo f durable housing, averagehousing production
inthe last five years, andthe ratio of housing stock growthrateto family growthrate.
Source: Rafiei, Minoo, Housing, Employment and Sustainable Development, October 2001

Component-A will consist o f four sub-components that address the implementation o f APLl and
the preparation o fAPL2:

Sub-Component-Al: Design and supervision of upgrading programs in APLl cities
involving the financing of city development strategies, feasibility and design studies for the
upgrading programs including environmental and social assessments.

Sub-Component-A2: Implementationof upgradingprogramsin APLl cities through:
(a) Phvsical Upgrading Programs which consist of: (i)                   improving access to basic education,
health and social services through the rehabilitation and service upgrading o f preschool, schools
and health facilities in poor neighborhoods; (ii)the rehabilitation and construction of: roads,
sidewalks, drainage and street lighting; (iii)     provision o f small community water tanks and limited
extension o f water and sewerage infrastructure within existing public rights o f way and approved
land use plans; (iii)public markets, community centers, youth, cultural, recreation centers,
childcare facilities and playgrounds for children. There will be no land expropriation or
involuntary resettlement within this component and for the latter type o f projects, securing the
proper management and the sustainability o f the built facilities would be a prerequisite for project
financing.

(a) Communitv Enabling Programs will focus on mobilizing communities, municipalities, CBOs
and NGOs and in building their capacities to participate in urban upgrading, community
development and poverty programs. This involves managing small socio-economic programs at
settlement level and creating lasting partnerships with local governments. This component will
build on the wealth of local initiatives, social networks and spontaneous mutual support systems



                                                       - 34 -

that exist inthe major cities o f Iran. It will aim at improving access to specialized social services
and on satisfying the needs of vulnerable groups such as the disabled, children, youth, women
head o fhouseholds and elderly at risk.

Two key activities are identified under this component: These will be identified, designed and
implemented by local NGOs, CBOs, PVOs, national and international universities and
municipalities with close participation o fthe local beneficiary communities and local governments.
They include:

    (i)Participatov implementationof socio-economic programs inthe informal settlements of
    participating cities. This will be implemented through joint ventures o f international and
    national NGOs, CBOs and municipalities which will be recruited competitively according to
    World Bank procedures. Activities will involve the design and implementation o f
    demand-drivenprograms that include among others: training of trainers for adult literacy and
    post-literacy; revolving school textbooks, primary health care; campaigns against drug
    addiction, urbanviolence and safe neighborhoods, social networks for working mothers, clean
    neighborhood campaigns, educational and integration support for children with learning
    difficulties; public health awareness campaigns; handicraft training; vocational and skill
    training for self-employment; promotion o f mutual support groups; small businesses and IT
    training; micro-credit training, etc.).

    (ii) Capacity building program in community enablingfor NGOs, CBOs and participating
    Municipalities. Particular attention will be paid to institutionalize the mechanisms for
    community participation inurban upgrading and in socio-economic development programs in
    informal settlements and at the city level.

(c) Municipal Cauaciv Building Programs involving the provision o f technical assistance and
institutional strengthening to participating municipalities aiming at strengthening the role o f
municipalities to plan and implement physical upgrading and community enabling programs.
Basedon information gatheredduringthe field visits and after discussionswith the "Municipalities
Organization" at the MOI, this sub-component will focus on the following areas:

    (i) Urban management, to prepare municipalities to operate inthe context of decentralized
    urban, land and housing management through: (i) training and equipment to strengthen
                                                           TA,
    land management and urban planning capacities. Building capacity in this area of urban
    management will be particularly relevant also to the upcoming CDS strategic planning
    process; (ii)TA and training to strengthen the municipality's role in participatory urban
    planning, investment planning, coordination o f community initiatives and integrated urban
    development.

    (ii) Financial management, to improve fiscal management and to strengthen capital and
    recurrent budgetingand revenue collection. This will consist o f TA, training and equipment to
    improve revenue collection, with a focus on incorporating newly regularized neighborhoods in
    the municipal revenue base, improving cost recovery o f infrastructure and improving returns
    on municipal assets with a highpotential for revenue generation.




                                                  - 35 -

Sub-ComponenGA3: Design of upgradingprograms inAPL2 cities involvingthe financing of
feasibility studies for the upgrading programs in five (5) provincial capital cities including
environmental and social assessments inthe participating cities.

Sub-Component-A4: Design of upgrading financing arrangements for APL2 and APL3
involving supporting the MHUD, the MOI and the MPO establish a sustainable financing
mechanism for urbanupgrading inIran. This will be achieved through added exposure o f Iranian
policy-makers to best international practices in the financing o f urban upgrading.              This
sub-component will involve the use o f local and international experts and the scheduling o f
training courses and study tours.

Project Component B: Housing Sector Reform US$3.00 million
                                              -
Component-B aims at enhancing housing affordability and the efficient functioning o f the housing
market. It will consist o f foreign and local technical assistance, training and equipment for further
defining and implementing the priority actions identifiedinthe Housing Sector Strategy and the
ensuingAction Plan. These priority actions canbe grouped into four areas o f focus: landmarkets,
housing finance, housing subsidies, and housing information. The specific activities comprised in
each area summarized below:

Sub-component B-1: Housing and LandManagement-This sub-component aims to develop
the methodology, systems, procedures, and institutional design for monitoring land market
activity at the city level and, estimating demand for landand triggering a supply response through
rezoning, changing density, or supply o fnew land for development.

Sub-component B-2: Housing finance - Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training
and fimding for studies to the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) andor the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Affairs to strengthen their capacities to: (i)      analyze and manage the liquidity risks
inherent to the various Savings Funds for Housing, (ii)manage the transition to liberalized
mortgage credit, improve capacities to monitor and insure the safety and soundness o f increasing
number of banks participating in housing finance, expand housing finance services (iii)        create,
sustain and strengthen capital market capacity to provide access to suitable long term financing
for housing, and (iv) develop fundingmechanisms for low income housing such as micro-finance
instruments. Inaddition, technical assistance, training and funding for studies would be provided
to prepare Bank Maskan to operate in the context o f liberalized financial market with particular
attention to streamlining operations, lowering the spreads and improving its capacity to evaluate
and manage risks.

Sub-component B-3: Housing subsidies - Technical assistance to MHUD and studies for
reforming the housing subsidy system towards a more direct, targeted, and unified system and the
creation o f a more manageablemonitoring, and implementation mechanism.

Sub-component B-4: Housing Information - Technical assistance to streamline the housing
information system and reduce the fragmentation o f databasesand output formats.




                                                 - 36 -

Project ComponentC: Project Managementand TechnicalAssistance US$ 2.00 million
                                                             -
This Component will finance: (i)the cost of office and ICT equipment that are required for
Project management and implementation and; (ii)the cost o f technical assistance for Project
management and implementation that includes the hiring o f individual consultants and consulting
firms consultants in areas such as Project management, Project monitoring and evaluation
including the documentation o f the Project experience, study tours and training to key
policy-makers, financial management andprocurement.




                                            - 37 -

                         Annex 2b: Sub-project Eligibility and Design Criteria

           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Urban Upgradingand HousingReform I
                                                  -

 All sub-projects to be financed out ofthe Project's proceedsshall fulfill the following criteria:
 (a) The sub-project i s givenhighpriority inthe capital expenditure program o f the municipality by
 major stakeholders in a participatory manner; or is part of an integrated upgrading program for a
 specific neighborhood.
 (b) The sub-project supports water supply, power, roads, transport, area development, education,
 health and other remunerative and non-remunerative urban infrastructure contributing to the
 improvement o f the living standardo fthe urban populations;
 (c) The sub-project i s cost effective and adopts an appropriate and most cost effective technology
 inaccordancewiththe applicable technical nomsand specifications inIran;
 Cost effectiveness will be determinedbased on the comparison o f the specific household's costs
 relative to its income with a predetermined hurdle ratio. The hurdleratio will be establishedbased
 on the average cost per family ineach city, butno more than 10% o f average household income.
 (d) The economic rate o f retum for project is at least the opportunity cost o f capital in Iran, for
 projects with quantifiable benefits (ERR calculation is not required for the projects less than
 us$loo,ooo);
 (e) The sub-project supportsor serves key commercial areas to facilitate business linkages;
 (f) The sub-project is on government-owned land and do not require land acquisition or
 expropriation;
 (g) The sub-project will either have no environmental impact or limited impact for which all the
 necessarypreventive measuresare envisaged;
 (h) The sub-project can be completed without resettlement of economic activities or inhabitants
 residinginthe project area; and
 (i) sub-projecthasaclearplanforsustainablemanagement,maintenance,andoperation.
     The

 The rehabilitation or construction o f service facilities such as health, cultural, community centers,
 and schools should ensure adequate provision o f these services. In addition, sector-specific
 eligibility and design criteria (see table below) will have to be complied with duringthe selection
 o fthe investment program.

 Projects          GeneralEligibility & Design Criteria              Specific Eligibility & Design Criteria
 Schools     .Evidenceconfirming ownership oftheproject       .Adequate accessroads andstreetlightingprovided
             site by the Government;                          to the school;
             .Adequate water supply andsanitation facilities; .Off-site solidwaste storage/ garbage collection
             .Participatorydesignwiththe community taking facilities provided;
             into account the environmental, public hygiene    .Evidenceconfirming that the estimated 0 & M
             and public safety issues;                         costs will be metby the Ministry o f Education;
             .Other authorizations andapprovals includingthe .Satisfactoryjustificationfor the locationofthe
             written approval of the Ministryo f Education;   proposed school within the neighborhoodandease of
                                                              access to girls;
            .Evidenceconfirming ownership oftheproject site .Adequate accessroads andstreetlightingtothe
~Health
 Centers    bythe Government;                                 health center entrances;
            .Adequate water supply andsanitationfacilities;   .On-site medical solidwaste storagefacilities and



                                                    - 38 -

         .Participatory designwith the communitytaking     separate garbage collection ensured;
         into account the environmental, public hygiene and .Evidence confirming that the 0 & Mcosts will be
         public safety issues;                             met by the MinistryofHealth;
         .Other authorizations and approvals includingthe .Satisfactoryjustification for the locationofthe
         written approval o f the Ministry o f Health;     proposed school within the neighborhood andease of
         .Other authorizations and approvals includingthe access for the community especially the disabled;
         written approval o f the Ministry o f Health;
Parks& .Evidence confirming ownership o fthe project site   .Reliable supply ofwater for Irrigation;
 Green   by the Government or municipality;                 .Appropriate choice ofvegetation andlandscaping;     ,
 Spaces  .Participatory design with the community taking Easy Access throughimproved accessroads and
         into account the environmental, public hygiene and lighting;
         public safety issues;                              .Toilet Facilitiestobeprovidedwith appropriate
         .Other authorizations and approvals includingthe design;
         written approval o fthe municipality;                Water supply, drainage and maintenance;
         .Other  authorizations and approvals includingthe .NeighborhoodAssociations to be formed to share
         written approval o fthe municipality;                responsibility for maintenance;
                                                            .Evidenceconfirmingthatthe 0&Mcostswillbe
                                                           met by the municipality;
Roadsand .Evidence confirmingthe availability oflandfor     .Existingunpavedstreetswith amore significant
 Streets extension o f street;                              role inaccess andtrafic are prioritized;
         .No resettlement ofeconomic activitiesor           .Provide   clear economic and traffic justification;
         inhabitants;                                       .Roads usedbythe largest number ofdirect and
         .Existing  Infrastructure and the municipalityand indirect beneficiaries are prioritized;
         Government plans taken into consideration;
         .Other authorizationsandapprovalsincludingthe
         written approval o f the municipality and related
         agencies (Water and Sewage, etc.);
 Public  .Evidenceconfirmingownership oftheproject site .Adequate accessroadsandstreetlightingprovided:
Markets by the Government or municipality;                  .On-site   solid waste storage/ garbage collection

         ,Participatory design with the community taking    facilities provided;
         into account the environmental, public hygiene and .Traders Association formed to manage and
         public safety issues;                              maintain the market;
         .Other authorizations andapprovals includingthe .Evidenceconfirming that the estimated0 &M
          written approval ofthe municipality;              costs will be met by an municipalityandor Traders
         .Adequate water supply,sanitation facilities,      Association;
         drainage and provisions for public hygiene;        .Satisfactoryjustificationfor the locationwithinthe
         .Otherauthorizations andapprovalsincludingthe neighborhood andeaseofaccessbycommunity
         written approval of the municipality andrelated      especially the disabled;
         agencies (Ministqo f Health);                      .Ensuringthat nomeat is sold inthe market as per
                                                              environmental andhealthregulations;
Communi0 .Evidence confirmingownership ofthe project site .Adequate accessroads andstreetlightingprovided
 Centers by the Government or municipality;                 .Solidwaste storage/ garbagecollection facilities
         .Participatory designwith the community taking       provided;
         into account the environmental, public hygiene and .Institutional arrangement for management and
         public safety issues;                                 maintenance should be clarified;
         .Otherauthorizations andapprovalsincludingthe .Evidenceconfirming that theestimated0 & M
          written approval o fthe municipality              costs will be met by an municipality community
         .Adequate water supply, sanitation facilities,     and/or local council;



                                                   -39 -

        drainage andprovisions for public hygiene         .Satisfactory justification for the locationwithinthe
        ,Other authorizations and approvals including the neighborhood andease o f access by community
        written approval o f the municipality              especially the disabled;
Water   ,Water master plan for the city should be         .Satisfactory justification for the location within the
        completed and approved;                           neighborhood andease o f access by the largest

        ,ExistingInfrastructure and the municipality and number o fpopulation especially the disabled;
         Government plans should be taken into            .Useofappropriate technology andadequate
        consideration;                                    specifications for water tanks operation and

        ,Other authorizations and approvals including the maintenance;
         written approval o f the municipality andrelated .Prior agreement with the water company on design
         agencies (Water and Sewage, etc.);               specifications including water quality and quantity;
                                                          .Water testingprogramagreeduponwiththewater
                                                          company;
Sports  .Evidenceconfirmingownership oftheproject         .EasyAccessthrough improvedaccessroadsand
Centers site by the Government or municipality;            lighting;
        .Participatory design with the community taking .Toilet Facilities to beprovidedwith appropriate
        into account the environmental, public hygiene    design water supply, drainage and maintenance;
        and public safety issues;                         .NeighborhoodAssociations      to be formed to share
        .Other  authorizations andapprovals includingthe the responsibility for maintenance;
         written approval of the municipality;            .Evidenceconfirming that the 0&Mcostswillbe
        .Other  authorizations andapprovals includingthe met bythe municipality.
        written approval o f the municipality.




                                                - 40 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project

                                                                                                 Local                Foreinn
                        Project Cost By Component                                             US $million
~

 Component A-1                                                                                     6.02                   2.58                     8.60
 Component A-2                                                                                   74.38                    4.23                    78.61
 Component A-3                                                                                     0.00                    2.00                    2.00
 Component A-4                                                                                     0.00                    0.40                    0.40
 Component B-1                                                                                     0.15                    0.35                    0.50
 Component B-2                                                                                     0.45                    1.05                     1.50
ComponentB-3                                                                                       0.15                    0.35                    0.50
ComponentB-4                                                                                       0.15                    0.35                    0.50
Component C                                                                                         1.46                   0.55                    2.01
Non-allocated                                                                                      0.00                   4.58                     4.58
Total Baseline Cost                                                                              82.76                   16.44                    99.20
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                              0.00                   0.00                    0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                                0.00                   0.00                     0.00
                                         Total Project Costs1                                    82.76                   16.44                    99.20
                                                                 Front-endfee                                              0.80                     0.80
                                 Total Financing Required                                   1    82.76           I       17.24           I       100.00

                                                                                                 Local                Foreign                     Total
                          ProjectCost By Category                                             US $million           US $million              US $million
 Goods                                                                                                1.80                     0.72                    2.52
Works                                                                                               64.50                      0.00                  64.50
 Services                                                                                            16.46                    11.14                  27.60
 Non-allocated                                                                                        0.00                     4.58                    4.58
                                                          Total Project Costs1                      82.76                     16.44                  99.20
                                                                     Front-end fee                                             0.80                    0.80
                                                Total Financing Required                            82.76                     17.24                 100.00


   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 100(USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 80% of total
  project cost net of taxes.




                                                                     -41 -

                           Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
      ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project



Summary of Benefitsand Costs:
Benefits from the urbanupgrading component are expected to improve the quality o f life to about
3.5 million of the poorest residents o f Iran (living in underserved areas of 3-5 cities) in the
following ways:      (i)improved access to and security inthe areas; (ii)improved water and
ultimately improved heath conditions and reduction of morbidity rates; (iii)       increased access to
recreational activities which will bring social benefits; (iv) increases in social capital by involving
community groups in the planning and execution of the Project; (v) easier access to public
services and other benefits arising from property ownership and registration; (vi) improved
institutional capacity to address planning and shelter needs and (vii) short-term employment since
labor (mainly unskilled) will account for a significant percentage of total sub-project costs.

Economic Benefits from Community Development and Local Government Capacity Building
The most importantbenefits of the upgrading component interms of community development and
local government capacity are: (i)the empowerment of communities and establishment of a
partnership between communities and local governments; (ii)        more efficient and effective public
investments that systematically respond to aggregated community demand; (iii)increased
community ownership of services delivery; (iv) improved municipal financial management and
capacity to operate and maintain infrastructure investments; and (v) increased municipal revenue
base.

The empowerment o f communities and establishment of a partnership between communities and
local governments (LGs) lays the basis for more participatory development planning and more
demand responsive local services leading to more effective public investments.              Top-down,
supply-driven service provision often result in an ineffective use of public resources due to
over-supply of services that people do not want and under-supply of services that people really
want. Inaddition, it would contribute to establishing greater accountability of local governments
towards local communities (i.e. better governance).

The Project will also require initiation of collection of contributions from the communities that
would contribute to building resilient community organizations capable to prioritize their needs
and demands.     Thus, also the local governments would be able to develop more efficient and
focused plans to address the specific concerns at a city level. Also, experience has demonstrated
that public investment inurban services that have involved communities in design and delivery of
services are more efficient. Services delivered in this fashion are not only able to multiply every
dollar invested by community contributions, but are also more sustainable. Community
participation increases beneficiary ownership and provides incentives for adequate management
and maintenance o f the infrastructure. In Iran maintenance of even primary infrastructure in
underserved communities is minimal at best. As a result premature failure o f infrastructure is
widespread. As sustainable infrastructure, in relative terms, is highly effective public investments,
the economic benefits accrued through community involvement generally have higher economic



                                                - 42 -

benefit than services provided in a traditional way. The specific investments and their respective
economic benefits are discussed below.

Cost and Economic Benefits from Upgrading Informal Settlements
Ingeneral terms, proven economic viability ofeachsub-project, inthe form ofa positiveNPV and
an ERR equal or above the appropriate opportunity cost of capital, will have to be established
prior to committing any funding from the Project. To ensure that the proposed investments do
not artificially support one another in terms o f the economic retums, and to establish
cost-effective investment parameters, the economic analysis will be conducted for each sector
investment separately, if feasible. For ease during implementation, a set of criteria have been
developed to help during the evaluation o f individual investments.       Sub-projects will have to
satisfy the following criteria:
    (a) it is given highpriority inthe municipality's capital expenditure programprepared ina
    participatory manner;
    (b) it supports water supply, power, roads, transport, area development, and other
    remunerative and non-remunerative urban infrastructure contributing to the improvement of
    the living standard of the urban populations;
    (c) the Affordability Indicator (AI; the methodology for calculating AI is discussed below) for
    the sub-project does not exceed the established hurdle rate (also discussed below).
    (d) sub-projects of US$ 100,000 or more shall have positive Net Benefits Indicator (NBI; the
    methodology to be used for calculating NBI is discussed below).         Should the indicator be
    negative, additional qualitative analysis will be carried out. The NBI requirement will not be
    applied to sub-projects with non-quantifiable benefits or those costing less than US$lOO,OOO.

Inthe case of competing investments (i.e. when several schools are being considered inthe same
city / neighborhood), the investment to be considered for funding first would be that with the
highest NBIand the lowest AI.

The Project Team will review on a no-objection basis all sub-projects with total costs of US$
200,000 and above and a sample of sub-projects below this threshold at its discretion.         This
procedure will be reviewed as needed to ensure adequate quality of the investment analysis.

Methodology
The net incremental economic costs and benefits o f the proposed sub-projects will be assessed by
constructing "with" and "without" sub-project scenarios. The cash flows will be discounted using
the appropriate opportunity cost of capital inIran. The analysis will include calculation of the Net
Present Value (NPV) andthe Economic Rate o f Return (ERR) for each area / neighborhoodto be
upgraded. Finally, sensitivity analyses by testing a number of scenarios will be conducted to assess
the impact o f changes in critical assumptions on the economic viability of the sub-project. The
base year will be 2003 and all amounts used inthe models will be in2003 currency (IRR or USD).
The period o f analysis will be at least 10 years after each investment becomes operational,
preferably 20 years which is assumed to be the usefbl life of the sub-project and does not include
re-investments duringthis period.

Data used for sub-project analysis must be actual in the specific city where the proposed



                                                -43-

investment will be undertaken and should be obtained from socio-economic indicators, surveys,
interviews, focus groups, or actual on-site observations. Willingness to pay surveys should be
undertaken when necessary.

Estimating Economic costs and benefits. For estimating economic costs and benefits economic
prices will be used, i.e. financial prices adjusted for the impact of taxes, implicit taxes, subsidies
and extemalities, mainly o n material and labor costs. Alternatively, economic costs will be
estimated by applying the standard conversion factors: 0.962 for the financial prices, 0.819 for
skilled labor and 0.745 for unskilled labor. Inthis case taxes will be eliminated from the financial
prices.

For the purposes of estimating economic costs all costs associated with the proposed investment
shall be considered, including:
    - capital costs (including designing, planning andengineering costs, construction costs, etc.),
    - operating and maintenance costs (O&M)
    - contingencies and complementary actions necessary to achieve the expected benefits - for
    physical contingencies during the construction stage a ratio of 15% of the estimated
    construction costs will be used.

Specific adjustments will be made to deduct implicit taxes in material and labor costs and from
investment and O&M costs. Standard conversion factors for skilled and unskilled labor, and
national inputs will be estimated. Once all financial costs are converted into economic costs,
incremental costs will be calculated based in the comparison of the "with" and "without"
sub-project scenarios. No residual value will be included in the analysis. A factor of 10.5% will
be applied to total investment costs to capture the costs o f program administration, community
outreach and related contingencies.

For the purposes of estimating economic benefits calculation of some upgrading benefits may
require direct measurement techniques based on potential expenditures saved (e.g. savings relative
to replacement costs) or willingness to pay (i.e. contingent valuation methods) by the beneficiaries
for the new improved services (more details on assessing the willingness to pay are discussed
below).

The methodology to be used depends on whether or not the neighborhood currently has or not
access to the service. For facilities inneighborhoods with existing services, the benefits from the
upgrading initiative will be established based on the direct use benefits (e.g. measured by the
tariffs charged to customers) and the opportunity cost of not having access to these services (e.g.
time savings, health benefits in the form of increased water consumption, productivity benefits
and/or other benefits that apply inthe Iranian context). For facilities in neighborhoods with very
limited or nonexistent services, direct-use benefits method cannot be applied.              Therefore,
contingent valuation techniques will be used instead and demand curves and consumer surplus
reflecting all benefits arising form the rehabilitation estimated.

The table below presents an indicative list of specific types of analyses to be carried out.




                                                  - 4 4 -

                   Estimating Economic Benefits of the Upgradin1 Component
         Upgrading               Benefits           Comments            Valuation Method
Power networks and street                                              Willingness to pay
lighting                                                               (Contingent
                                                                       valuation)
Strengthening o f water        Increased      Reduceddry season        Potential
supply services by             water          flow endangers the       expenditures
providingstand-alone           availability   population's water       (Replacement Cost)
pipes or cistern tanks with                   supply
chlorinated water to fill a
local reservoir
                                                                                             ~

                             Reduced cost     Longdistances to         Surrogate market
                             of fetching      taps results inhigh      values (Time-saving
                             water            opportunitycosts         analysis)
                               Reduced        Poorwater quality        Loss of earnings.
                               sickness       results inloss of        Medical costs.
                                              earnings and
                                              increasedmedical
                                              costs
Rehabilitationof access                                                Willingness to pay
roads, side walks, and                                                 (Contingent
drainage                                                               valuation)
Rehabilitation or                                                      Willingness to pay
construction of public and                                             (Contingent
civic buildings (schools,                                              valuation)
clinics, recreational or
cultural community
centers)
                                              Travel expenditure to    Surrogate market
                                              reach a recreational     values
                                              site indicates its value (Travel cost)
                                              to societv


Inthe case o finvestments where it is notpossible to make cost-benefit calculations, as is the case
with land titling, a set of guidelines will be prepared and used during Project implementation to
evaluate the economic feasibility of these investments. In addition, cost-effectiveness factors will
be established for each of the components to verify that total investment costs on a per-capita
basis is effective.

The Affordability Indicator (AI): the cost of investment per beneficiary household as a share of
the beneficiary household income. AI will be used to determine a reasonable magnitude of the
investment costs. The AI hurdle rate will be set on the basis o f the average expenditures of the
low-income households ineach city and is expected to be around 10%.




                                                - 45 -

TheNet Benefit Indicator (NBI): NBIis a type of cost benefit ratio and will be calculated on a per
capita and per investment type basis. NBI i s calculated by dividingthe Net Present Value (NPV)
o f the investment by the number o f beneficiaries and the appropriate investment measure (e.g. km
for roads, sq. m. for parks, cu. m. for water, etc.).

The Economic Rate of Return (ERR): ERR is an Internal Rate of Return of the sub-project when
NPV calculated based on economic prices equals zero. Sub-projects to be funded should yield an
ERRequalto at least the appropriate opportunitycost o fcapital.

Specific Remarks on the Economic Evaluation of Specific Types of Investments
The economic benefits for the different investments will be estimated using the following
indicative menu ofparameters:
     - community facilities cost savings due to avoiding buildingnew facilities
                            -                                                     inthe hture;
     - preschools  andprimary schools -time savings for mothers;
     - secondary and highSchools - increase inincome earned due to employment opportunityas a
     result of increased education;
     - health-income earned due to increased life expectancy;
     - roads, streets and drainage - savings    in travel time and actual level of pedestrian and
     vehicular traffic;
     - markets -time saved intravel time;
     - water -increased and continuous access   to water;
     - sewage -reductioninhealth costs due to water-borne diseases, contamination, or the like;
     - parks, sport fields, community centers willingness
                                                -              to travel to the respective place; and
     other

Road Infrastructure: Under this Project only investments in secondary roads, which include
internal neighborhood access roads and pedestrian ways, will be eligible. Most of these roads have
poor surface conditions, internal vehicular access is nearly absent and pedestrian access is limited
due to density, difficult terrain and the absence of any investment inthese areas. While no data are
available on traffic patterns on these roads, they are predominantly on-site and local service roads
and not major collector or trunk roads. Car ownership is low in these communities and public
transportation operates only where roads are passable.

The limited road access in the underserved areas impose significant transport costs in both time
and money on the local residents. Inaddition, the restricted access greatly impedes public services
inthese areas, makes maintenance of infrastructure systems very difficult and severely limits the
availability of emergency services such as fire, rescue and police. Indicative estimates elsewhere
suggest that the construction of internal access roads and sidewalks result in 20% savings intravel
time. The minimum acceptable level of internal access will result in a number of other benefits
such as:
     (a) reduced costs associated with local cargo costs of household goods such as gas canisters
     and construction materials;
     (b) increased mobility ofhouseholds and their connection with other areas ofthe city;
     (c) improved accessibility, and operations and maintenance of public services;



                                                - 46 -

    (d) accessibility ofunderserved areasbyemergency vehicles suchas fire, police andrescue;
    (e) improved productivity o f the neighborhood by making commercial activities more
    attractive and prevalent inthe underservedareas.

Rehabilitated or New Public Buildings: Forpublic and civic building, ERRSwill be calculated by
taking into account the incremental higher fees users are willing to pay for improved facilities, or
by the costs savedby improving the existing facility rather than buildinga new one. Inthe case of
recreational facilities, ERRSwill measure the additional expenditure on travel the household is
willing to incur to reachthe facility.

Assessment o fthe Willingness to Pay (AWP)
The purpose o f the AWP is to collect and analyze sufficient data to estimate what the potential
beneficiaries would be willing to pay for the improved or new services. Based on the collected
data on the beneficiary willingness to pay a demand curve and the consumer surplus reflecting all
benefits arising form the rehabilitation will be estimated.

Inorder to assessthe willingness topayasurvey questionnaire shall includes the basic
socio-economic characteristics o f the target population, characteristics o fwater supply and/or
sanitation or other services as applicable, andthe willingness to pay for the new or improved
services under different assumptions. The following are the main steps to be taken to carry out an
AWP:
    (a) Designing sampling procedure. The sampling procedure should result in a representative
    sample comprising enough customers from different income groups, locations within the
    citylneighborhood, and distinguishing between customers with and without access to the
    current water network.
    (b) Pre-testing and, ifnecessary,adjustingthe questionnaire.
    (c) Analyzing the socio-economic indicators and water and sanitation characteristics o f the
    targetpopulation.
    (d) Analyzing the data from the willingnessto pay survey and investigating the significance of
    various socio-economic and service specific (for example, water and sanitation)
    characteristics. This may be done in Probit or Logit regression models so as to quantify the
    willingness to pay for tariffs and the willingness to use standpipesand the like.

MainAssumptions:
NIA

Sensitivity analysis/ Switchingvalues of critical items:
For the purposes o f the sensitivity analysis the variables conveying major risk to the sub-projects
will be identified and the impact o f these variables analyzed. This analysis will show whether or
not the results o f the economic analysis are robust for all cases analyzed. The following are some
of the potential criticalvariables to be considered for sensitivity analysis:
    - two-year delay insub-project implementation;
    - 10%increaseincosts;
    - 10% decrease inrevenues(for revenue-generating sub-projects only); and other.



                                                  - 47 -

                                   Annex 5: FinancialSummary
    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgradingand Housing Reform Project
1.Summary ofFinancialBenefits
Among the main benefits of the Project's upgrading component will be the strengthened financial
management capacity of the participating municipalities, particularly, in managing larger
investment budgets and financing o f operating and maintenance costs o f additional infrastructure
projects.   In addition, the appreciation in property/land values will lead to a significant
improvement in own revenue generation, thereby increasing the sustainability o f benefits attained
underthe Project. For example, the increasedrevenue base due to landtitling and regularizing the
currently informal settlements.

The Project will test whether the community-based decision-making framework for the provision
and delivery of servicesis an economically, financially andsocially viable approach, provided that
the infrastructure standards are appropriate and respond to budget constraints. From this derives
another major financial benefit o f the Project - replicability o f such framework ultimately leading
to improved quality o f public expenditures for the provision o f urban infrastructure services more
broadly and beyond the Project.

2. Methodology for FinancialEvaluation
Proven financial viability o f each sub-project will have to be provided prior to committing any
funding under the Project. The financial evaluation will include the analysis of the available
investment funding and ability o f the municipality or the responsible agency to cover operating
and maintenance expenses o f the additional infrastructure sub-projects. Financial analysis will be
required for investments inhealth, education and water & sewage and those that are under direct
responsibility o f the municipality such as roads, surface drainage, parks, community centers and
markets.These investments would constitute by far the majority of works financed by the World
Bank loan.

The sub-projectswill haveto satisfy the following two requirements:
(i) municipalitymaintainsaratioof totalexpenditurehotalrevenues(taxandregularnon-tax
   the
revenue) below 1. As the municipalities fimd their O&M costs from the own revenues and no
transfers are received form the central or provincial budgets for these costs, the ratio o f total
O&M costs (including the additional O&M costs originating from the new investments) to total
own revenues will be calculated (excluding development fimding from central and provincial
governments). For the investments to be considered for hnding, this ratio should be less than 1.
Should the ratio be greater than 1, the municipality will provide evidence that either it has a
feasible plan for increasing its revenues inthe following year to bringthis ratio below 1, or it will
receive additional budget from the central or local government.

When detailed O&M estimates are not possible to make, these costs for the proposed investments
could be assessedusingthe following guidelines:
e       Roads- 3% o f the accumulated investment costs;
e       Water supply and electricity -4% o fthe investment costs; and
e       Schools, health centers and community centers-2% o f the investmentcosts.



                                                - 48 -

(ii)Fiscal impact of the proposed sub-project on the municipality's budget is negligible.
Evidence must be provided that the share o f capital expenditure of the sub-project'would be a
small percentage (e.g. 4 5 5 % ) of the annual capital expenditure of the municipality or the
responsible agency. This would ensure that the sub-project does not create excessive demands o n
reallocation of budgets.

Cost recovery
Revenue-Generating Sub-projects. For revenue-generating sub-projects, such as recreational or
cultural public and civic buildings, user fees could be charged. For sub-projects in water supply,
the present government policies regarding user fees and subsidy ceilings will be applied. The tariff
for water will be calculated using the social tariff that is significantly lower than the long-run
marginal cost of the system expansion prevalent in the area. The results of a qualitative survey in
Zahedan suggest that there is willingness to pay for this service. Nevertheless, care must be
exercised to ensure that household expenditures on the new or improved services are not
excessive and should not exceed 5% of their monthlyincome with an absolute maximumof 10%.

Non-revenue Earning Sub-Projects. Some sub-projects such as schools, health centers, street
drainage and lighting, and rehabilitation of access roads have characteristics of public goods for
which cost-recovery of O&M will not be possible through direct user charges. These will be
recovered indirectly throughtaxes such as property tax.

Should there be any resettlement involved inAPL2, the associated costs will be assumed as social
costs to be imputed to the state and indirectly to the general taxpayer.

Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
Assuming that the average participating municipality will receive a US$ 15 milliongrant andthat
the infrastructure under the mandated responsibility o f the municipality will be around 33% of the
total investment, then the total O&M cost resulting from the investment will be US$ 150,000 per
year based o n an average annual O&M cost of 3%. This amount is very small relative to the
annual budget of the participating municipalities and will be offset by the increase in municipal
revenues resulting from the incorporation of the upgraded neighborhoods into the revenue base
of the participating municipalities.




                                                - 49 -

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project

Procurement

 Procurementmethods(Table A)

Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/ August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published inJanuary 1997 (revised in
September 1997, January 1999 and M a y 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the APL
agreement. A General Procurement Notice of bidding opportunities and consultants contracts
will be advertised inthe UNDevelopment Business before Project launching and updatedannually
for all outstanding procurement.

Where National Competitive Bidding(NCB) will be carried out, the procedure must be acceptable
to IBRD which would require:      (i) evaluationandawardcriteriainbiddocuments; (ii)
                                     explicit
national advertising with public bid opening; (iii) sufficient time for bidders to submit bids (four
weeks usually);     (iv) no preference margin to domestic contractors;      (v) foreign bidders to
participate inNCB if they so wish; and (vi) contract award to be made to the bidder whose offer
is substantially responsive and lowest evaluated. Inthis context, agreement should be reached on
a standard biddingdocument, inFarsi, that will be acceptable to the Bank to be used for the local
procurement of works and goods. The draft of this document will be prepared by the MHUD and
submitted to the Bank for review by end of M a y 2004, with a final draft to be ready by end of
July 2004.

Iranian procurement legislation needs to be adapted to Bank requirements under the procurement
guidelines, irrespective of adequate capacity of implementing agencies to handle procurement and
adequate control organizations in the country.     The Bank's procedures need to be applied in
particular concerning the following issues:
    (a) Bank Guidelines stipulate that open competitive bidding must be used for hiring of
    contractors through. Concerning the use of two envelopes, the envelope containing the
    administrative and technical documents, and the envelope containing the financial offer, will be
    opened simultaneously in public and in one single stage, and prices announced in the same
    session;
    (b) For works and goods, explicit bid evaluation criteria must be specified in the bid
    documents. Elements other than price, which may be specified in bid documents, must be
    expressed inmonetary terms. The lowest evaluated responsive bid will be selected;
    (c) services for consultants:    In accordance with the Bank's procedures, the Borrower
    addresses a request for proposals to a predetermined short list. The envelopes containing the
    financial proposals will be opened in public in a second stage, only after the technical
    evaluation is completed; and
    (d) For consultants, unlike contracts for works and goods, the selection criteria must be based
    on a combined score of the technical proposal and the price. The weighting for price should



                                               - 50 -

     be between 10 and 20 points, or a maximum of 30 points out of a total combined score of
     100.
     For small assignments o f less than US$ 100,000, the shortlist may be limited to local
     consultants (paragraph2.7 o f Consultants Guidelines)provided local expertise is available at a
     comparative level. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they shall not be
     excluded from consideration.

Procurement of Works.           Works to be procured under the Project include infrastructure
networks, social andtrunk infrastructure inpoor urban settlements and in selectedcities. Because
o f the scattered nature o f the Project, it is however anticipated that no individual contract would
exceedUS$2 million. All contracts may be procured following NCB procedures, using a standard
bid document (SBD) agreed in advance with the Bank. The Instructions to Bidders, Bid data
sheet, Bill o f quantities and other standard forms will be taken from the Bank's SBD for Works,
with minor modifications to suit localrequirements. The General Conditions o f Contract issuedby
MPO may be used, subject to the Bank's prior review. The aggregate value o f contracts that will
be awarded under this procedure shall not exceed US$ 70,000,000 equivalent. Contracts
estimated to cost more than US$ 10,000 and less than US$ 100,000 equivalent may follow
proceduresapplicable for the procurement of minor works and basedon three quotations obtained
from local contractors. The aggregate amounts o f contracts to beprocured by this procedure shall
not exceed US$ 1,000,000. Refer to the Operations Manuel for detailed procedure. Direct
Contracting may be used for works o f an emergency nature and following the requirements in
paragraph 3.7 o f the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Direct
contracting may only be used for contracts estimated to be less than US$lO,OOO              up to an
aggregate amount o f US$200,000.

Procurement of Goods. Goods to be procured under the Project would consist primarily o f solid
waste trucks, equipment for wastewater plants, health equipment, educational systems,
computers, etc.. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into packages
of more than US$ 250,000 and procured following ICB procedures, using the Bank SBD for
Goods. Contracts with estimated value below this threshold may be procured using NCB
procedures on the basis o f the Bank's SBD for Goods with needed modifications to reflect local
requirements. The aggregate amounts o f contracts to be procured by this procedure shall not
exceed US$ 2,500,000. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding
packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount o f
US$ 200,000 may be awarded on the basis o f International Shopping (IS) or National Shopping
(NS) in accordance to procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Selection of Consultants. Consultant services will be contracted to carry out studies, design and
supervision o f community development and institutional upgrading programs, technical assistance
for capacity building, urban upgrading and housing sector reform, feasibility studies and
institutional strengthening. These services would be procured using a standard request for
proposals document.

Firms: All contracts for firms would be procured using Quality and cost based selection (QCBS)
except for contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or less, which may be procured on



                                                  - 51 -

the basis of selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ). Short lists may be comprised
entirely o f national consultants (firms registered or incorporated in Iran), if the assignment does
not exceed US$200,000 equivalent, and a sufficient number o f qualified firms (at least three) is
available at competitive costs and competition including foreign f m s is notjustified. However, if
foreign firms have expressed interest, they shall not be excluded from consideration.             For
contracts exceeding US$200,000 the Bank's standard RFP will be used. For contracts below
US$200,000 the Bank's RFP will also be used, with minor modifications to address country and
Project specific issues. In the latter case, the document may be in English. Evaluation o f the
quality o f the proposals shall be carried out inaccordance to Paragraphs 2.14 through 2.18 o f the
Guidelines o f the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the
Operations Manual.

For Component 2 (b) with assignments that emphasize participation and considerable local
knowledge, the shortlist may consist entirely o f NGOs. If so, the QCBS procedures shall be
followed. Evaluation criteria shall reflect the unique qualifications o f NGOs, such as voluntarism,
nonprofit status, local knowledge, scale o f operation, and reputation. An NGO may be selectedon
a single source basis, provided the criteria outlined in Section 3.9 o f the Consultants Guidelines
are followed.

Individuals: Specialized advisory services may be provided by independent consultants selected
by comparison of qualifications o fthree candidates andhiredinaccordancewith the provisions o f
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o fthe Consultant guidelines.
Inexceptional cases, single-sourceselection ofconsultants for servicesestimatedto cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank'sprior agreement, be procured inaccordance
with the provisions o fparagraph 5.4 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

Prior review thresholds. Works contracts o f US$500,000 equivalent or more and Goods
contracts o f US$250,000 or more are subject to prior review by the Bank. In addition, the first
two contracts for works and goods, which are below these thresholds, are subject to prior review
bythe Bank. For consultant assignments, firms contracts o fUS$lOO,OOO or more, and individuals
contracts o f US$40,000 or more are subject to prior review by the Bank. All single-sourced
selection o f consultants and direct contracting of suppliers/contractors will require prior review by
the Bank.

Procurement plan. At appraisal, MHUD developed a procurement plan for the first year of
implementation of the Project, which provided the basis for the procurement methods. The Bank
discussedthe plan with MHUDand found it acceptable (Tables attached). For the first year, the
total amount of contracts to be committed i s inthe order of US$10.4 million. At the beginning o f
each calendar year, the procurement plan will be updated with a procurement schedule for the
coming year.

Implementation Arrangements. Procurement under the Project will be implemented by the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD) through the Project Management Unit
(PMU) to be located in the same ministry. For procurement related activities, the PMU will play
a central role in coordinating the procurement process and in keeping consistency with



                                                 - 52 -

procurement procedures at the central and local levels (see chart below). I t will have on its team
a procurement officer to be hired competitively in accordance with Bank procedures, and to
report to the P M U director. The P M U will prepare the standard bid documents (SBDs) for
procurement o f works and goods, and the standard request for proposals for larger and smaller
consultant assignments.             These documents must be prepared in accordance to the Bank's
recommended procedures. The standard documents will be used for all contracts at the central
level, and will also be disseminated to MHUD's representative in each city, the Housing and
Urban Development Organization (HUDO).                        The beneficiary entities at the central and local
levels, including the municipalities, will prepare their own technical specifications and/or terms o f
reference as well as the bill of quantities to be included inthe bid documents. At the central level,
the technical studies and procuremento f goods will be launched by the PMU. Consultants and/or
suppliers will submit their offer to the PMU, which will participate in the bid opening, the
preparation o f the bid evaluation reports and selection o f consultants or suppliers. At the local
level, HUDO ineach city will receive the SBD-Works through the PMU, will launch the bids and
participate in the bid opening, the preparation o f the bid evaluation reports and selection of
contractors.

Procurement Flow-chart

             ~                                  ~




           TUA at UDRO             -                 PMU                      -        TUB at NHLO
                                         Preparation of SBDs and RRPs
      TORSfor studies by TUA                                                       TORSby bencficiary agencies
                                       Launchingand receipt o f bids or RFPs



                    I

 Bid Openingand Bid
 EVALUATION COMMITTEE                       Receipt o f SBDs from PMU                  Prcparationo ftechnical

 PMUProject Director                                                                   specifications and bill
                                            Launchingand receipt o f bids
 TUA or TUB Project Managers
 Financial Controller
 Contracts Department Representativc
 Beneficiary agency representative          Bid Openingand Bid
 (Technical person)                         EVALUATION COMMITTEE
                                            Manager o f HGDO
                                            FinancialController
IContract awards to Consultants,            Contracts Department Representative
 goods and services signed by               Beneficiary agency reprcscntativc
 PMUDirector                                (Technical person)




                                            Contract awards to contractors signed
                                            by Head of Contracts Department

NOTE:
Component A Beneficiaries at the center: UDRO
Component B Beneficiaries at the center: MHUD,CBI, MPO, MEAF, Bank Maskan.
Component A Local Beneficiaries: Municipality, Water and Sewerage Co, Bureau for electricity, Organization for
rehabilitationo f schools. Director General for Health.


The P M U staff, including the procurement officer, have not been appointed yet. Also HUDO, in
each o f the cities, has so far not yet appointed a procurement officer. Agreement has been
reached between the Bank and MHUDthat procurement officers will be recruited by end o f June
2004. Also, the procurement section in the Operations Manual will be discussed once all P M U



                                                           - 53 -

staff are inplace.

MHUD'sprocurement capacity. Contracts beingpresently implementedbyMHUD'sexecuting
arms UDRO and NLHO, as well as contracts presently implemented by HUDOs, MHUD's
representatives inthe cities, are generally inline with the size and type o f work requiredunder the
Project. It i s therefore expected that these agencies would not experience significant difficulties in
undertaking their task under the Project.        Nevertheless, because o f several issues in local
procurement procedures not in line with the World Bank's procurement guidelines, and lack o f
experience in international contracts, it can be safely assumed that the agencies under MHUD
have no adequate procurement capacity to handle Bank financed projects. The P M U and HUDO
in the selected cities, which are responsible for preparing bid and consultant documents and
launching o f bids, would have to be satisfactorily staffed, and the final selection o f the managers
and procurement officers would have to be cleared by the Bank. The assessment of MHUD's
capacity would also specifically depend on the choice o f procurement officers to be appointed.
Procurement training cannot be started unless the core staff is appointed. Short term consultants
would also be hired to meet requirement o f peak workloads andor to carry out assignments
requiring specialized skills. A budget i s set aside for training across the board o f all core staff
under the Project. To minimizethe risk, the Bankwill organize a procurement seminar duringthe
Project launch, payingparticular attention to the training needs o f the P M U and HUDOs.




 Total                                   0.72            69.48          29.80            0.00         100.00
                                        (0.72)          (51.71)        (27.57)          (0.00)       (80.00)




                                                 - 54 -

                    Table AI: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                      (US$ millionequivalent)

                                                    Selection
  Consultant Services
 Expenditure Category   QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS
A. Firms                 18.50     0.00     0.00      0.00       5.60     0.00     0.00     24.10
                        (17.87)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (5.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (22.87)
8. Individuals           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      3.50     0.00      3.50
                        (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.90)   (0.00)    (2.90)
                  Total  18.50     0.00     0.00      0.00      5.60      3.50     0.00     27.60
                        (17.87)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (5.00)    (2.90)   (0.00)    (25.77)




              CQ = SelectionBasedon Consultants'Qualifications
              Other = Selectionof individualconsultants (per SectionV of ConsultantsGuidelines),
              Commercial Practices,etc.
              N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
              Figuresin parenthesesare the amountsto be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                              - 55 -

 Prior reviewthresholds(TableB)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                Contract Value                                       Contracts Subject to
                                  Threshold                  Procurement                  Prior Review
  Expenditure Category          (US$thousands)                  Method                   (US$ millions)
 I.Works                            <2,000                       NCB;                  All contracts above
                                                                                       500,000 and first 2
                                   >10<100             Minors works procedures      contracts below 500,000.
                                                                                          Firstcontract.
                                                           Direct Contracting              All contracts
 2. Goods                                                         ICB                     All contracts.
                                   >50<250                       NCB                     First2 contracts.
                                                                shopping                  Firstcontract.
                                                           Direct Contracting             Firstcontract.
 3. Services(Consu1tant                               I                            I




                                                                 QCBS               All (TOR, shortlists, RFPs
                                                                                         andcontracts).
                                                                   co                AllTOR. first Contract
 b) Individuals                       >40              See Section V o f Guidelines Shortlists, selection report
                                                                                          and contracts.
                                      <40                                              TORS.first Contract.
 c) Miscellaneous         I                           I                            I
                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 38.70
                        Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:       High
       Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:         One every 6 months
                                                                   (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                   post-reviewlaudits)
Due to lack of familiarity of MHUD with World Bank procedures, the overall risk for
procurement i s considered high. Also, a CPAR on procurement in Iran has not been carried out
yet. Inthe Project preparation, through the implementation of a PHRD grant, intensive advisory
support on the Bank's procedures has been provided.            For this reason, the Project design
components are kept as simple as possible. The Bank will organize a seminar on procurement,
disbursement and financial management during the Project launch, paying particular attention to
the training needs of Project implementation teams. Particular attention would also be given to
the needs o f the PMU and HUDO in each city, which will have the responsibility to prepare and
launch all bids and requests for proposals at the central and local levels respectively.         Project
implementation will be monitored closely throughintensive Bank supervision missions.

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: It is recommended to have three
full supervision missions during the first year of implementation and to have two full supervision
missions each year thereafter.       These missions should also include special procurement
supervision for post-review of contracts awarded.




                                                - 56 -

First Year ProcurementPlan:The following is a summary ofthe first year's procurement plan
(for more details, see project files):

                                            Procurement Planned Estimated                     Procurement
                                               category       numberof       amount              method
                                                               contracts      (first
                                                                              Year)
ComDonentA -Urban Upgrading
A-1. Design& supervision o f                   Services            10           0.9            QCBS I CQ
upgrading programs inAPL1 cities
A-2. Implementation o fupgrading                Works              12          7.18                NCB
programs inAPL1 cities                          Goods              9           1.07
A-3. Design of upgrading                       Services
programs inAPL2 cities
A-4. Designofupgrading financing               Services
arrangements for APL2 & APL3
TOTAL for Component A                                              31           9.15     I
ComDonent B-HousingReform
B-1.Housing and Land                           Services             1          0.15                QCBS
Management
B-2.Housing; Finance                           Services             1            0.2               OCBS
                                                                                                   .
            1
B-3.Housing Subsidies                           Services            1            0.1               QCBS
B-4.HousingInformation                         Services             1            0.2               QCBS
TOTAL for ComDonent B                                              4            0.65

2omponent C -Project Management
                                                Goods              2             0.2               NCB
                                                Services           4           0.46            QCBS I CQ /
                                                                                                Individual

TOTAL (excluding Unallocated &                                     41          10.46

Front-End-Fee)

-~._

"Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement"and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    - 57 -

            Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements
      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgradingand HousingReform Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
The Project is introducing an integrated approach to urban upgrading inthe Islamic Republic o f
Iran (IN)focusing on close coordination between various service providers at the local level. The
Ministry o f Housing and Urban Development (MHUD) will be the implementing agency o f the
Project. Component-A will be implemented by the central and provincial offices o f the ministry
operated in the provinces under the name o f the Housing Upgrade Development Organization
(HUDO). Component-B o f the Project will be implementedby The National Land and Housing
Organization (NLHO). All payments, under the Project will be subject to the government laws,
regulations and controls. In the absence o f a Country Financial Accountability Assessment and
being the first Project to be implementedby the MHUD, the financial risk is rated as medium to
high. To reduce this risk and ensure reliable and timely Project reporting, the engagement of a
qualified Financial Officer is condition for Board.

The PMU, assisted by its provincial offices at the participating cities, will be responsible for the
financial managementof the Project on behalf o f the MHUD. The PMU will maintain accounting
records, prepare financial monitoring reports (FMRs) and transmitthese to the Bank on quarterly
basis. The PMUwill also be responsible for the preparation o f annual Project Financial Statements
to be audited by an external independent auditor. To ensure that fhds are readily available for
Project implementation, a Special Account (SA) in US Dollars will be opened at a commercial
bank and will be operated by MHUD. The below chart provides a summary o f financial
managementresponsibilities among different institutions.




                                                - 58 -

                                             I
                        Central Level
            (a) To open budget lines inlocal and                               (a) Open Bank Account
            foreign currencies account (SA) prior  issuerequest for Bank
            to March 21,2004                       Account opening

            (b) To sign agreement with the MHUD    (b) Authorize PMUProject    (b) Request advanceo f
           defining the scope and Project          Director and Provincial
            implementation procedures              Executive Office to sign
                                                   contracts

                                                   (c) Financial Controller to (c) Transfer o f loan
                                                   requestopening of Bank      proceeds from Special
                                                   accountsat provincial level Account inthe form o f
                                                                               advancesand
                                                                               replenishments to the
                                                                               Provinces

                                                                               (d) Pay contractors

                                                                               (e) Remit documents to
                                                                               MHUD

                                                                               (0Replenishaccounts
                                                                               from loanproceeds



The financial systems at the MHUD offices in Tehran and two provincial cities were assessed
through a series o f meetings with the Financial Controllers (FC) and also reviewing the existing
accounting systems, policies and procedures, budgeting systems, reporting, staffing, internal
controls policies andprocedures, internal auditing and external auditing arrangements.




                                                     - 59 -

The findings o fthe above assessmentare summarizedas follows:

                         Rating             Comments
 1. ImplementingEntity   Satisfactow with   The MHUDand the provincial offices havenever implemented Bank-financed
                         limitations`       projects and are not familiar with Bankrequirements,proceduresandguidelines.
                                            However, the Ministry has inplace a financial system designedto follow-up on
                                            its budgetand expendituresas defined inthe legal framework applicable to
                                            Ministries inthe Islamic Republic of Iran.
 2. FundsFlow            Satisfactory       The Project will be funded through two sources, the IBRDloanandthe
                                            govemmentbudget. Inorder for the Project funds to be disbursed, two budget
                                            accountsmust be openedby the MPO and aframework agreement should be
                                            signedto allocate the Project funds. MPO have committedto the to openingthe
                                            accountsandsigning the agreement.
 3. Staffing             Satisfactorywith   Disbursementarrangementswill be handled by the MEAF controller who is
                         limitations        already following on the MHUDhnds and activities. The Project funds will be
                                            disbursedinaccordancewith the applicable lawsrequiring the approval ofthe
                                           controller inTehran andat the provinces. However the risk o fnot generating
                                           timely Project reportswould be contained by "ring fencing" aparallel
                                           accountingsystem, which will be operated by a new financial officer andwho
                                           should be recruited prior to boardpresentation.
 4. Accounting Policies  Satisfactory with The Proceduresinplaceare basedonthe laws applicable to the IRIpublic
 and Procedures          limitations        sector. However a Financial Operations Manual is beingpreparedand will
                                           define the Project financial activities detailing the information and flow o f
                                            documentsrelated to the Project. It will identifythe monthly reportsrequired
                                            fromthe HUDOs and NLHO to feed into the parallel accounting system.
 5. Project Controls     Satisfactory      The budget is preparedby the MPO, the expendituresare authorized by MHUD,
                                           paymentsare signedby the MEAFConttollerandthe Project Director.
 6. Flow of information  Unsatisfactory     Five provincial offices and the Tehran office o fthe MHUDwill be
 betweenthe MHUDand                         implementing the Project.The flow o f informationbetweenthe Provincesand
 the provinces                              the Ministry is limited to monthly expenditure summariesremittedto the FC.
 7. IntemalAudit         NIA


 8. ExtemalAudit         NIA               The Diwan Mohassabah,as per applicable laws, performannual auditson
                                           ministriesandpublic agenciesthat receive public funds. A review to determine
                                           the scope o fthis audit hasnot beenperformed. However, the Project will be
                                            auditedby extemal auditorsto beengagedunder TORSacceptable to the Bank.
 9. Reporting and        Unsatisfactory    The MHUDaccountingsystem is not capableo fgeneratingquarterly Project
 Monitoring                                 reports.This risk will be contained throughringfencing aparallel accounting
                                            systemthat will follow on the Project accountsinaddition to the MHUDmain
                                           accounting system. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be generated
                                           quarterly through the parallel system.
 10. Information Systems Unsatisfactory    The systemsinplaceare manual.
 II,RiskManagement       Unsatisfactory    The present F M system inplace replypartially to the Proiectneeds. The controls
                                                                                _._
                                           are adequate howiver a financial officer has    tb be engagedandan accounting
                                           software will be installed. Applying these activities would reducethe risk ofnot
                                           generatingProject reportswill be contained by "ring fencing" the accounting
                                           activity.
 Overall Current         Unsatisfactory
 FinancialManagement
 rating


Systems inplace at the MHUD and the provincial offices are based on principles and procedures
defined by the legal framework and operational decrees applicable to the public sector including
ministries. The control environment is adequate, however, the accounting system requires
enhancement to become capable o f generating timely Project reports. Also, the Project is
introducing a new concept o f implementation that requires new definition for the exchange of
information between the different provincial offices and the center. To avoid the risk o f MHUD
not being able to generate timely reports for Project management and monitoring purposes, "ring
fencing" accounting arrangementswill be implemented.




                                                            - 60 -

MHUDControlenvironmentand IT systems. All payments, underthe Project, will be subject
to the government controls. These are applied by the Management and Planning Organization
(MPO); the Minishry o f Economic Affairs and Finance (MEAF); and the Supreme Audit (Diwan
Mouhassaba) (DM). The budget is agreed upon with the MPO while the budget expenditure
controls are implemented by the MEAF through providing the funds and approving payments.
The DM, being the Supreme Audit Institute will verify all transactions to insure compliance with
the budget and other applicable laws. These controls, plus the engagement o f an external
independent auditor, will be usedto follow on the Project hnds that consist o f the loanproceeds
and the counter part financing provided by the govemment.

Presently, except for the budget system that follows on expenditures by budget line, all activities
and financial informationare preparedmanually. Accordingly, the systems inplace are not capable
to generate periodical Project reporting such as the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and
other similar reports that will be usedfor monitoringand decision making.

1.1. MHUDProjectArrangements
Budget Accounts: Two Project accounts will be established by the MPO. Also, a framework
agreement, detailing the flow o f funds and Project implementation arrangements will be signed
between the MPO and the Ministry. The two accounts will be used to allocate the loan proceeds
and the counterpart funds over the life o f the Project. All Project payments will be charged to
these accounts. These accounts will be reconciled on monthly basis with the parallel accounting
system that will record in details the Project financial transactions and provide the detailed
reports.

Accounting System: The MHUD system is characterized with acceptable controls, however, to
avoid the risk o f MHUD not being able to generate timely reports for Project management and
monitoring purposes, parallel arrangements are being implemented to overcome this shortcoming
inthe system. The Project accounting and reporting activities will be undertaken separatelybut in
conjunction with MHUD control procedures and applicable laws. To that end, MHUD will seek
the services of a full time Financial Officer. This new recruit will report directly to the MEAF
financial controller at the MHUDandwill coordinate closely with the provincial FC andthe PMU.
The accounting system should be able to account separately for each of the Project activities, by
city and categories indicating the source o f financing. It i s expectedthat the development contract
of the system will be awarded soon andwill be ready by May 2004.

Flow of Information: The Project will be implementedby different offices o f the MHUD located
in five cities while the accounting system is managed at the ministry in Tehran. The flow of
information will be defined, agreed upon and documented in the Project's Financial Operations
Manual. To facilitate the compilation o f the Project financial information and progress, the
provinces will remit to the ministry in Tehran, on monthly basis, the provincial data in order to
compile the information into the consolidated quarterly FMRs detailing the implementation
progresso fthe overall Project. The data should include:
    - Listing of all signed contracts, detailing amounts paid during the month, year to date and
    cumulatively including the disbursement forecast, under each, for the coming six months;
    - The activities that will be committed during the next six months and the disbursement
    forecast under each;



                                                 -61 -

    - Physical progressreport detailing the progressofthe activities beingimplemented.

If any department faces difficulties in preparing these reports, the PMU would provide the
requiredassistance and training to the financial staff o f the various provincial offices that are part
o f the Project. The format o f the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) has been agreed upon
with the MHUD.

Manual of Financial Procedures: In order to define the relation between all departments
involved with the Project implementation thus facilitate the flow o f information related to the
Project, the financial officer, assistedby an external financial consultant, will prepare by June 2004
the Project Financial Operations Manual, integrating the applicable laws and outlining the parallel
systemby detailing:
    - The Financial Officer's responsibilities within the MHUD financial department and his
      relationship with the MEAFfinancial controller;
    - The insertion of the Project inthe Development Budget.
     - The Project accounting system
    - The Project chart o f accounts and accounting principles, practices and methods the Project
      will follow. This chart o f account should reflect the classification o f MHUD budget
      classification, ifapplicable, for easy reconciliation;
     - The budgetingprocess;
     - The reconciliation procedures, timingand output betweenthe two       systems;
     - The document flow;
     - The frequency and forms ofthe financial reports;
     - Banking arrangements, transfer o f fund to the provinces and the process for replenishment
       o fthe Project funds including the SA and counterpart fund accounts and other.

Flow of Funds and Controls. All invoices, either for advancepayments or for incurred expenses
will be subject to applicable govemment controls and procedures.These invoices will be approved
by the appropriate implementingdepartmentandwill be honored through payments signed by the
MEAF controller or his provincial representative. The FC of the MHUD will be responsible for
the Project funds and for the management o f the SA. The MHUD will transfer funds from the
loan account to the Project's SA, opened at a commercial bank as per the Central bank
instructions. Inturn, the provincial offices will be provided with advances from the SA based on
their monthly forecasts and replenishments will be transferred upon presentation of supporting
documentation for incurred expenditures. While the MEAF will transfer the counterpart funds to
MHUDwho inturnwill transfer funds on as needbasisto the provincial accounts after the MPO
opens the required budget lines. Deposits into and payments out o f the SA, to pay
contractors/suppliers/consultants, will be made in accordance with the provision o f the Loan
Agreement.

1.2. Project reports
Quarter&: The MHUDwill generate Financial Monitoring Reports and submit them to the Bank
as part o f the Project progress report, or separately. These reports are made up of:
         Financial Reports: to include a cash flow statement, beginning and ending Project cash
         balances and an expenditure report by city and activity comparing actual and planned
         expenditures in addition to the SA reconciliation statement. Also, a narrative report


                                                 - 62 -

       explaining all variances that exceed 15% when compared to plan and the proposed
       corrective actions should be included as an annex to the financial reports.
       Physical Progress Reports: to include narrative information and output indicators linking
       financial information with physical progress, ifapplicable.
        Contracts Reports: providing information on the contracts, by city, o f goods, works,
        services, training and selection o f consultants showing contract financial status against
       plan, including information on all authorized contract variations.

These reports should be remittedto the Bankwithin 45 days from the end o fthe period.

Annual: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) will be submitted to the Bank. PFS, will
include:
    (i)  Statement o f sources and utilization o f funds, indicating funds received from various
         sources.
    (ii)Appropriate    schedules classifying Project expenditures by activity and by city, showing
         yearly and cumulative balances.
    (iii)  Special Account Reconciliation Statement reconciling opening and year-end balances;
    (iv)  Statement o fpaymentsmade usingSOEs procedures as definedinthe legal agreement.

The chart below illustrates the flow o f funds and documentation.




                                                - 63 -

                                        CASH& DOCUMENTSFLOWCHART




     !                                            Ministry of HUD                     Accounting Entry
           Loan Account           ----_---       Financial Controller                 Project System




                       I
          3P                                      Project Special
                                                  Accounta:bank




                                    Replenishment                                     `1Financial
                                                                                        Monitoring
           Ministry of Economic     4 times/year' Project Counterpart                   Reports
           Affairs and Finance                    Funds Account at bank                     (FMRs)
             Counterpart Funds




                       I  Project Account              Project Account   t          Project Account  l-   Other

                                                                                                          Cities
                          Provincial level  t I                 I




                                                       Provincial level             Provincial level
I         1            I                    t                                     I                  t
 Contractors
 Suppliers
 Consultants             CounterpartFunds            Coumrpart Funds                Counterpart Funds

                          Provincial level             Provincial level             Provincial level
                                   I I
                                                                               t
                                              c
DP: Direct Payment
SAR SpecialAccount Replenishment
_-. Cmh
 _ _ _ _ _:Document Flow                                   Contractors, Suppliers & Consultants
                Flnw                                                                                   I




                                                           - 64 -

Project reports
Quarterlv: The MHUDwill generate Financial Monitoring Reports and submit them to the Bank
as part o f the Project progress report, or separately. These reports are made up of:
        Financial Reports: to include a cash flow statement, beginning and ending Project cash
        balances and an expenditure report by city and activity comparing actual and planned
        expenditures in addition to the S A reconciliation statement.      Also, a narrative report
        explaining all variances that exceed 15% when compared to plan and the proposed
        corrective actions should be included as an annex to the financial reports.
        Physical Progress Reports: to include narrative information and output indicators linking
        financial information with physical progress, ifapplicable.
        Contracts Reports: providing information on the contracts, by city, o f goods, works,
        services, training and selection of consultants showing contract financial status against
        plan, including information on all authorized contract variations.

These reports should be remitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end of the period. The
proposed format of reports is in the Project files and will be agreed upon with the Borrower
duringnegotiations.
Annual: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) will be submitted to the Bank. PFS, will
include:
    (i) Statementofsources andutilizationoffunds, indicating finds receivedfromvarious
          sources.
    (ii)Appropriate schedules classifyingProjectexpenditures byactivityandbycity, showing
          yearly and cumulative balances.
    (iii) SpecialAccountReconciliationStatementreconcilingopeningandyear-endbalances.
    (iv) Statement ofpayments made using SOEs procedures as defined inthe legal agreement.




                                                - 65 -

1.4. RiskAnalysis
The following summarizes the risk assessment findings for the Project:


  Inherent Risk
    1.Country Financial ManagementRisk   H     The CFAA report for The Islamic Republic of Iranhas not beenprepared.
    2.Proiect Financial Management Issues
                           -             Mto H The MHUDhas not imlemented Bank financed Proiects in the past and
                                               the systems inplace are not capable to follow on the Project activities and
                                               funds.
    3,Counterpart Funds                   L    MPO committed to opening two accounts for the Project within MHUD
                                               budget to facilitate flow of funds and to sign the framework agreement
                                               detailingthe Project implementation.
  Overall Inherent Risk                  M




    6.Extemal audit




1.4. Bank Supervision
The requirements for Bank supervision will intensify initially in order to ensure that the parallel
accounting system is implemented. The first supervision mission after effectiveness will take the
form of a launch workshop where a seminar on Bank rules, regulations and guidelines will be
presented. The Project will be supervised every four months for the first eighteen months, then
every six months thereafter. Bank supervision missions will consist of visits to MHUD, NLHO,
the HUDO offices in the provinces and the MPO to review financial management practices,
budget accounts balances, procurement methods, payment procedures and documentation, in
addition to field visits to the Project sites and other agencies concerned.

2. Audit Arrangements
The MHUD will remit to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each year, the audit
report of the Project. The extemal audit report shall encompass all Project related activities and
shall be in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards e.g., International
Standards on Auditing (ISA).             The annual audit report of the Project accounts shall include an
opiniononthe PFS Also, the audit report shall include a separate opinion onthe SA and payments
made using SOEs procedures. In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a
"management letter" identifying any observations, comments and deficiencies, in the system and
controls, that the auditor considers pertinent, and shall provide recommendations for their
improvements. The external independent auditor should be acceptable to the Bank and his TOR



                                                        - 66 -

will be prepared and submitted for the Bank's no objection, at least nine months prior to the end
ofthe Project fiscal year.

3. DisbursementArrangements
The Loan will be disbursed during Project implementation over a period of five years. Managing
the Project h d s and all related financial transactions, including preparation and submission of
disbursement applications throughout the Project will be the responsibility of MHUD. Payments
made for expenditures incurred prior to the Loan signature date but after March 31, 2004 in an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of US$2 million will be reimbursed to the
government upon presentation o f a withdrawal applications with summary sheets and/or
statements of expenditure and supporting documentation. The allocation of Loan proceeds by
expenditure category are summarized inthe table below:
Allocationof loan proceeds(Table C)

                               Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

         ExpenditureCategory            IAmount   in US$million  I         FinancingPercentage
~~~

Works                                             48.38                            75%
Goods, EquipmentandVehicles                        2.18           100%o fforeign expenditures, 100% of




Consultant Services and Training                  25.77           88% o f local expenditures for services of
                                                                     consulting firms and individuals
                                                                    domiciled withinthe temtory o fthe
                                                                      borrower and 95% for foreign
                                                                                expenditures
Non-allocated                                      2.87

Total Project Costs with Bank                     79.20
Financing
                           Front-endfee            0.80

Total                                             80.00




                                               - 67 -

 Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):

The transaction-based disbursement will be used under this Project. Accordingly requests for
payments from the loan account will be initiated throughthe use of withdrawal applications (WA)
for direct payments, the replenishment o f Special Account, reimbursement, or issuance of special
commitments.     All WA will include appropriate supportive documentation including detailed
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).

During implementation SOEs will be used for all expenditures for: (i) under contracts
                                                                          works
costing less than US$ 500,000 equivalent each, except the first two contracts; (ii)   goods under
contracts costing less than US$ 250,000, except the first two contracts; (iii)services under
consultant firms contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each and under individual
consultant contracts costing less than US$40,000 equivalent each; (iv) training; and (iv) the
incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.    The supporting documentation would be maintained by MHUD and made
available for review by Bank supervision missions uponrequest, documentation relating to SOEs
wouldbe retainedfor upto one year fromthe date the Bank receives the audit report for the fiscal
year inwhich the last withdrawal from the loan account was made.

Special account:
To facilitate Project implementation and make timely payments of the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures to contractors, suppliers, consultants and others, MHUD will open a US Dollars
Special Account, after receiving the Central Bank approval. This S A will have an authorized
allocation of US$ 5 million and an initial deposit of US$ 2 million, while the full allocation may
be claimed when disbursements and special commitments reach US$ 15 million. Replenishment of
the S A would follow Bank's procedures, and a Bank's statement of S A transactions would
support all replenishment applications. The minimum amount for applications regarding direct
payments and special commitments would be 20% of the respective authorized allocations to the
SA. Requests for replenishment o f the S A will be submitted on a monthlybasis.

The MHUD will advance to the provincial offices, from the Project SA, funds into the Project
account (PA-Sub Account) to be opened at a local bank as per applicable laws. MHUD will
advance funds uponreceiving a request from the Provincial Financial Controller (PFC) specifying
the amount of funds needed for the first quarter, accompanied by a cash-flow forecast based on
the budgeted activities. Accordingly the PA account will be replenished from the S A upon
remitting the supportive documentation relative to the incurred expenditure. Also local accounts
will be opened for the Project counterpart funds at the MHUDand at the provincial offices. These
accounts will be replenished as per applicable laws andprocedures.

The S A and the PA-Sub Accounts statements will be audited annually by independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank and a separate opinion will be issued accordingly. The audit report should
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than six months after the end of each Project fiscal
year. The Project transactions are expected to increase the work load at the provincial offices of
the MHUD, thus there, will be a need to engage Project accountants to assist the PFC.



                                               - 68 -

                             Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
   ISLAMICREPUBLICOF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgradingand Housing Reform Project



Timetakento prepare the project (months)

First Bank mission (identification)                                                   11/10/2001
Appraisal mission departure                                                           11/09/2003

Negotiations                                                                          04/14/2004
PlannedDateof Effectiveness                                10/01/2004


Preparedby:
Sateh El-Arnaout


Preparation assistance:
Elena Gagieva

Bank staff who. worked on the project included:
    . , ,
        Name
         . ... .      .,   ....    .
                 ,     .
                     ,                                    Speciality
                   ,   , .      . . .                                         ,      ,               .
                                                                                       I.    ,    ,

Sateh El-Amaout                           Task Team Leader and Sr. Municipal Development Specialist
OmarRazzaz                                Co-Task Team Leader
Maurice Gress                             Procurement Specialist (Consultant)
Helen Shahriari                           Sr. Social Scientist
RanciaNemer                               Environmental Specialist (Consultant)
samirKanoun                               Institutional Specialist(Consultant)
RobertBou Jaoude                          Sr. Financial Management Specialist
IsabelChatterton                          Economist
Bertrand Renaud                           Housing Finance Specialist (Consultant)
                                         ~




Mayumi Kato                               Urban Management Specialist
Loic Chiquier                             Lead FinancialOfficer
Barjor E. Mehta                           Senior Urban Specialist
Rosanna Nitti                             Urban Specialist
Laura Vecvagare                           Young Professional
Hiba Tahboub                              Sr.Procurement Specialist
Tuyet Chuppe                              Program Assistant
Josephine Ngou                            Program Assistant




                                                   -69-     .

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan
    Project Implementation Plan

B. Bank Staff Assessments

    Assessment o fthe MHUDexecuting arm for UDRO and the Ministry's localrepresentatives
    intwo provinces to implement Project procurement;
0   Economic andFinancial Assessment o f investment programs for the first year o fthe Project.

C. Other

0   Environmental Management Plan
0   Environment GuidelinesManual
0   Resettlement Policy Framework
0   Operations Manual
0   Procurement Plan for Year 1
0  National Strategy for Enabling Regularizing Informal Settlements
0  National Housing Strategy
0   Feasibility studies for Bandar-Abbas, Kermanshahand Zahedan, including environmental and
    rapid social assessments
0   Interimreport onHousingFinance Technical Assistance-Evaluation of Contractual Savings
    System for Housing and LiberalizingHousing Finance Lending..February 25,2004
0   TOR for Technical Assistance Activities under Component B
0   TOR for Needs Assessment

*Includingelectronicfiles




                                             - 70 -

                                       Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
         ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgradingand HousingReformProject
                                                            29-Am-2004
                                                                                                                   Difference between expected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                                 OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
ProjectID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO74499    2003 IR-EnvironmentalManagementSupp. Prog.          20.00      0.00                         0.00     19.30       0.30      0.00
PO80802    2003 IR-EARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRESPONSE                 180.00     0.00                         0.00    176.20     16.20       0.00
PO69943    2000 IR-2nd PrimaryHealthCare 8 Nutrition           87.00      0.00                         0.00     83.53     46.53       0.00
PO69946    2000 IR-TehranSewerage                              145.00     0.00                         0.00     98.51     48.71       0.00

                                                     Total:  432.00       0.00                         0.00    377.53     111.73      0.00




                                                     ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN
                                                         STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                            Mar 2004
                                                                   -
                                                        InMillionsUS Dollars


                                                                            Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                          IFC                                    IFC
    FY Approval              Company                              Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic


                                    Total Portfolio:               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00



                                                                       Aoorovals PendineCommitment

    FY Approval             Company                                  Loan       Equity         Quasi     Partic
    2003                    KLC                                       3.00         0.00        2.00        0.00

                            Total PendingCommitment:                  3.00         0.00        2.00        0.00




                                                                -71   -

                                                       Annex IO: Country at a Glance
      ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project          -
                                                                                   M. East     Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                  B North     middle-
                                                                        Iran        Africa     income
2001
Population,mid-year (millions)                                         65.1           301        2,164                         Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                    1,670          2,000       1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                                                              I                       T
                                                                      108.6           601        2,677

Average annual growth, 199501

Population (%)                                                           1.6           2.0         1.0
Laborforce (%)                                                           4.4           2.9         1.2         GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                               per                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                          capita                                enrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertvline)                        21
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                                   65             58          46
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                          71             68          69                                i

Infantmortality(per 1,WOlivebirths)                                      26             43          33
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                                    11             15          11                Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                       95             89          80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation aue 15+1                                      15             34          15
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-aqepopulation)                     117             97         107                     Iran,lslamicRep.
                                                                                                                    ~




    Male                                                                120            103         107                     Lower-middle-incomeamup
    Female                                                              113             90         107

KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS

                                                           1981       IS91           2000         2001
                                                                                                                Economlcratios-
GDP (US$ billions)                                        100.1        91.5          101.6       114.1
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                                22.8       33.2           27.4        29.3
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                            11.8       15.3           24.9        28.1                              Trade

Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                   18.8       25.1           38.7        35.8
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                   17.8       26.5           38.8        35.1

Currentaccount balance/GDP                                  -3.4      -11.2           13.3         4.2         Domestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                                         0.2         0.0           0.3         0.2                                              Investment
                                                                                                               savings
Total debffGDP                                               3.9       12.4            7.8         6.3
Totaldebt service/exports                                    5.6         3.9          23.9         8.2
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                               7.3
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                          25.6
                                                                                                                                 Indebtedness
                                                                                                                     -
                                          1981-91 1991-01             2000           2001     2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                             1.9          3.3         5.9           4.8         4.9                      Iran, lslamic Rep.
GDP percapita                                  -1.3          1.7         3.9           3.1         3 2
                                                                                                   _ -                      Lower-middle-incomeamuD
Exportsof goods and services                    6.4         -1.0       18.2            9.7        12.8

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                           1981       1991           2000         2001         Growthof Investmentand GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 21.5       23.1           17.7        16.6        150

Industry                                                    31.4       28.3           33.3        30.1        100

   Manufacturing                                            10.0       14.0           15.3        12.5          50
Services                                                   34.5        48.7           49.0        51.3           0

Privateconsumption                                         60.2        64.2           46.9        51.O         -50
General governmentconsumption                              20.9        10.7           14.4        13.2
Importsof goodsand services                                 15.7       23.5           13.3        21.5

                                                       1981-91 1991-01               2000        2001          Growthof exports and imports(%)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                  4.4        3.9            2.8         4.7        40

Industry                                                     3.4       -3.5            6.9         7.5
   Manufacturing                                             5.6        4.8            8.0        10.0
Services                                                    -0.8        8.5            5.6         4.8

Private consumption                                          2.3        3.0            4.9         5.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                -4.6        4.2            1.1         1.6
Grossdomestic investment                                    -0.3        3.2            3.8         3.0
Importsof goodsand services                                 -2.2      -11.3            1.5         4.5

Note: 2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average.If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete




                                                                                - 72 -

                                                                                                Iran, Islamic Rep.

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                                                                                          I
                                         1981    1991    2000    2001       lnflatlon (%)
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                            21.4    15.8    12.6    11.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      24.5   23.6     32.2     8.6

Government finance
(% of GDP,includescufrent grants)
Currentrevenue                                     6.8    32.4   28.0
Current budget balance                            -5.4    16.5    10.5              -GDP       deflator  *CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                  -10.5   -12.2     8.5     1.o                                                    I
TRADE                                                                                                                     II
                                         1981    1991    2000.   2001
(US$ millions)                                                              Exportand Import levels(US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                      11,831  18,661  29,900 26,000     40,000  T
 Fuel                                   11,491 16,012   24,280 19,339
 Textiles                                                                         i
                                                                        /30.000
 Manufactures
Totalimports (cif)                      13,138 25,190   17,900 21,600     20,ow

 Food                                                                     10.000
 Fueland energy                          1,000    400      274    625
 Capitalgoods                                                             1      0
                                                                                    95      96 97    s3    99      00
Exportprice index (1995=100)               133      71      69      70                                                 O1 I
Import price index (1995=100)               51      93      58      58
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  260      76     120     120

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1981    1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                       accountbalanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services            12,387 19,329   28,461 23,716
Importsof goodsandservices              16,453 30,905   15,086 18,138
Resourcebalance                         -4,066 -11,576  13,375   5,578     I O

Net income                                 620     128    -166  -1,144
Net currenttransfers                         0  1,200      315     320      5

Currentaccount balance                  -3,446 -10,248  13,524  4,754
                                                                            0
Financing items (net)                    -324   8,149  -20,404  -9,695
Changesin net reserves                  3,770   2,099    6.880  4,941

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)            3,036   12,527 17,468
Conversionrate (DEC,loca//US$J           80.0   547.6  5,731.0 5,819.0

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1981    1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                              Compositionof 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebtoutstandingand disbursed       3.857  11,330    7,953  7,214  I
  IERD                                    529       46     481     380 I
  IDA                                        0       0       0       0                             A: 380


Totaldebt service                         740     803    6,914  2,168
  IBRD                                      94      46     110     101
  IDA                                        0       0       0       0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Ofticial grants                            7      85
  Official creditors                       -75     -90
  Privatecreditors                       -350     344
  Foreigndirect investment                                400      500
  Portfolioequity                            0       0       0       0

                                                                      I
World Bank program
  Commitments                               0        0    232        0      A IBRD                           E Bilateral
                                                                                                                 -
  Disbursements                             0       0      114     31       B IDA      D Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                            ~                    ~


  Principalrepaymenis                      52      40      70      65       C IMF
                                                                              ---                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                  -
  Netflows                                 -52     -40     44      -34
  Interestpayments                         42        5     40      36
  Net transfers                            -94     -46       5     -70

Developmenttconomics                                                                                                 w1J/UZ




                                                      - 73 -

                      AdditionalAnnex 11:Institutional Arrangements
    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project

I.Institutional setup
Project implementation is aligned with current institutional responsibilities in Iran: each Project
component will be implemented in close cooperation with the relevant agency. The Urban
Development and Rehabilitation Organization (UDRO), the main agency responsible for urban
upgrading projects in Iran, will implement component-A. The National Land and Housing
Organization (NLHO), the organization responsible for land and housing policies, will coordinate
the implementation o f Component-B.

An Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) with representatives of the MOI, MEAF, Central
Bank (CBI), MPO, the High Commission for Architecture and Urban Development, and UDRO
has been established during Project preparation. Its main role was to provide guidance to the
reform strategy and to the design o f the Program. Duringthe implementation, the ISC will be in
charge of Program oversight. It will meet at least quarterly to review progress, coordinate
decisions and remove impediments to the timely implementation o fthe Program.

At the central level: the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD) will be
responsible for the overall execution, procurement, financial management and coordination o f the
program. Reporting to MHUD will be the Project Management Unit (PMU), which will be
located separately at the Ministry and will solely serve the proposed Project. The PMU will rely
on two Technical Units TUA and TUB to work closely with UDRO and NLHO, respectively.
Bothunits will have a core staff complemented as necessary by specialized short-term consultants
to meet peak workloads and/or to provide specialized expertise. Training o f the core staff inthe
various program specialties and inBank procedureswill be provided for underthe Project.

At the local level: the HUDO and the local Executive Upgrading Committee will nominate An
Executive Officer. Together with the PMU, he will responsible for Project implementation and
will be located at the MHUDprovincial office (HUDO). He will act as contract manager for the
specialized regional organizations and will operate under the umbrella o f the local executive
upgrading committee. Upgrading Committees chaired by the Provincial Governor will oversee the
preparation and implementation of the enabling and upgrading component in their respective
cities. Members o f these committees are the heads o f all specialized organizations operating at the
local level, as well as the mayor and representatives o fthe city council.

2. Project Management Unit (PMU)
The PMU will be headed by a Program Director appointed by the MHUD. It would be set out as
a stand-alone unit with its own procurement procedures and will be organized in two separate
divisions: (i)An accounting, procurement and disbursement division and; (ii)a planning and
programming division.

The accounting, procurement and disbursement division will have the responsibility to
prepare all standard procurement documents under the Project, launch and evaluate bids at the
central level, and sign the contract with the selected consultanthupplier. It will also disseminate



                                               - 74 -

the standard procurement documents to HUDO in each o f the selected cities and provide any
assistance on procurement when needed. The division would be also responsible for maintaining
accounting records and processing all matters related to disbursements and will process all
administrative and financial work related to the PMU. The unit will maintain a parallel accounting
system consistent with acceptable international standards. It will also comply with the
requirements o f Iran public finance accounting and financial control requirements. Suitable
candidates for heading the division would be persons holding graduate degrees and having at least
five years experience in accounting and/or financial management and familiar with both Iranian
and international accounting standards. A staff unit responsible for legal matters would be
attached to the office o f the Project Director to provide services as requiredto all the divisions o f
TUA and TUB.

The planning and programming division would be responsible for following up on matters
related to the selection o fparticipating cities and approval o f their investment programs. It would
also be responsible for programming implementation activities incoordination with the technical
units and following-upheporting on program implementation and housing policy reformprogress.
It would handle the operation of the Management Information System (MIS) development,
website and public relation needs o f the whole project. Suitable candidates for heading the
division would be persons holding graduate degrees and having at least ten years experience,
including at least two years at a managerial position preferably, in the fields o f housing and/or
urban development. The PMUwould have a core staff as summarized inthe table below. Itwould
also have access to short-term consultants as warranted (auditors, legal advisors, accounting
assistance, training, etc.).

Responsibilitiesof the PMUwill include:
   0    Assumingthe roleof Secretariatofthe ISC
   0    Maintaining overall program accounts and records,
   0    Preparing the Financial Management Reports,
   0    Coordinating and ensuringaudits o f all program accounts,
   0    Centralizing all disbursementsunder the program,
   0    Selecting eligible cities, approving the investmentprograms o f these cities, and preparing
        six months activity programs,
   0    Coordinating the activities o f the program implementation units and insuring adherence
        with program procedures,
   0    Preparing quarterly progress reports,
   0    Liasingwith World Bank, and the ISC,
   0    Coordinating the preparation o f subsequent APLs,
   0    Preparing the standard bid documents for works and goods, as well as the request for
        proposalsfor bothlarger and smaller assignments,
   0   Launching, receiving and evaluating bids and proposals at the central level,
   0    Participating with a bid opening and evaluation committee and inthe decision on contract
        award.
   0    Signing, through PMU's director, all contracts with consultants/ suppliers at the central
        level
   0    Disseminating the standardbid and request for proposals documents to HUDO inthe field



                                                 - 75 -

        and provide any assistance on procurement when needed,
   e    Documenting and administering all procurement contracts awarded at the central level.

PMUCore permanent staff: A total of 14personnel are required for PMUas showninthe table
below. For detailedjob descriptions see Annex 1.

                                Table. C-1. PMUCore Dermanent staff


                        -1Program Director         - 1Executive
                        - 1Legal Advisor           secretary.

                        -1HeadofUnit               - A poolO 4f
                        -1Senior                   secretaries for both
Procurement Unit        Accountant                 project
                        -1Procurement              components A & B
                        Officer                                            +
Planning and            -1Heado fUnit
                        -1MIS/ ITsuecialist
Sub-Total                          7                      6                  A s required
                                   14

3. Technical Unit A (TUA)
The TUA and in close coordination with UDRO will be responsible for the management and
supervision of the day-to-day activities of this component and for submitting quarterly Project
progress reports to the PMU. At the local level, Executive Upgrading Committees (EUC) chaired
by the Provincial Governors will oversee the preparation and implementation of the enabling and
upgrading component in their respective cities. Members of these committees include the mayor
and representatives of the city council and the heads of all specialized organizations operating at
the local city level (regional offices of ministries and public utilities). Participating municipalities
will be responsible for implementing their respective pilot urban upgrading and community
enabling programs. They will receive technical assistance for environmental impact mitigation
from TUA. They will also receive assistance from the specialized local organizations for design
specifications and the formal reception of works. Each municipality will designate a Project
manager assisted by support staff and technical assistance h d e d under the Project. Community
involvement inmonitoring and supervision will be through their representatives at the EUC.

The supervision of works will be the responsibility of the MHUD and the specialized local
organizations. The day to day supervision will be entrusted to professional supervisory
engineering firms or individuals recruited through competitive bidding. Technical audits will be
conducted at the end of each year by Senior engineers. The audits will serve to verify the quality
of procurement, the timeliness of execution and the quality of constructions. The lessons learned
from the audits will facilitate future improvement inboth the processes and construction quality.
Up-grading investments will also be supervised and monitored by the local communities that will
be the beneficiaries of such investments.


                                                 - 76 -

The TUA would be housed at UDRO and headed by a Project Manager chosen in consultation
with UDRO. It would be part o f the PMU and work closely with UDRO in implementation o f
component A. The TUA would include: (i)       Project Preparation Unit, (ii) Implementation
                                                                             Project
Unit,and (iii)Community Enabling andCapacity BuildingUnit.

The ProjectPreparationUnitwould be responsible for:
   0  Initiating andmonitoringthe preparationo f feasibility studies for program cities, and,
   0  Monitoring the preparation o f city performance contracts.
   0  Initiating and monitoringthe TA and capacity buildingactivities part o f the component.
   0  Ensuringcompliance with environmental safeguardsduringProject design.

The ProjectImplementationUnitwould be responsiblefor:
   0  Initiating and monitoring the preparation o f the detailed engineering designs o f the
      infrastructure sub-components,
   0  Monitoring works supervision and verifying works progressvouchers.
   0  Providing technical assistance to relevant organization for the formal reception o f
      completed infrastructure.
   0  Ensuring compliance with environmental safeguards.
   0  Reportingon the progress o f the upgrading sub-component.
   0  Maintaining records for the Enablingand Upgrading component.
   0  Managingthe general services o fTUA not provided by UDRO.
   0  Ensuring adherence to record keeping, and other operational procedures under the
      Project.
   0  Providing assistanceto PMU inpreparing terms o freference for hiringconsultants, and
   0  Preparingthe terms o f reference directly under TUA's responsibility.

The CommunityEnablingand CapacityBuildingUnitwould be responsible for:
      Initiating and monitoring the implementation action research activities and studies in
      participating cities with a view o f developing andtesting community enabling activities for
      subsequent replication to other neighborhoods and/or cities.
      Evaluating the impact o f community enabling programs,
      Reporting on the progress o fthe community enabling sub-component;
      Ensure compliance with applicable safeguards
      Educatingparticipating cities on the content and procedures o fthe program,
      Initiating and monitoring the implementation o f all technical assistance, capacity building
      and training under Component-A o fthe program,
      Disseminating manuals and best practices developed as a result o f the program as well as
      relevant international best practices among professionals, practitioners, and participating
      communities.

TUA specific responsibilitieswill include:
   0  The preparation o f feasibility studies for Project cities selectedby the ISC;
   0  Monitoring the implementation o f the infrastructure, urban environmental services,
      enabling, and capacity buildingsub-components;



                                               - 77 -

        Insuring adherence to/and or enforcement of Program safeguards, procedures, and
        providingrelated technical assistanceto participating municipalities;
        Insuringadequate supervision o f works andtimely formal transfer o f completed
        infrastructure to responsible organizations;
        Insuringcompliance with the city performance contracts including the mobilizationof the
        financial contributions o f local governments, communities and other stakeholders;
        Handling all preparations for disbursements under component-A in coordination with the
        PMU; and
        Promoting action research for the design o f new community enabling activities and
        evaluating the impacts o f such activities.
        Reporting on progress o fthe implementation o f Component-A to the PMU.

 TUA Core permanent staff: The Unit would have a core permanent staff as summarized inthe
table below. It would also have access to PMU and core staff (MIS, legal advisers, etc.), support
staff (secretarial services) and short-term consultants as warranted (auditors, MIS, accounting
assistance, training, supervisingengineers). For detailedjob descriptions see Annex 1.




Project Preparation Unit      - 1Heado fUnit
                              - 1Urbanplanner
                              - 1 CivilKontract Engineer
Project Implementation        - 1Heado fUnit                               Usesthe PMUpool of
unit                          - 1Environmental/ Safeguardsspecialist       secretaries
                              - 1CivilKontract Engineer
Community Enabling &          - 1Head o f Unit
Capacity BuildingUnit         - 1Social scientist
                              - 1communication specialist
           Total                             12

4. Technical Unit B (TUB)
The TUB and inclose coordination with the NLHO will be responsible for the implementation o f
Component-B o f the Project. It will coordinate and work closely with the relevant counterparts
for specific reforms, i.e. MHUD, CBI, Bank Maskan, MEAF, local governments and the High
Commission for Architecture and Urban Development. These beneficiary institutions will be
responsible for the implementation o f their respective TA sub-components. The TUB will be
housed at PMU and would work closely with NLHO and other beneficiary organizations. It
would be headedby a Project Manager.

The Project Manager for the TUB would be assisted by an administrative assistant responsible
for following-up on procurement and record keeping matters. The unit would recruit short-term
consultants to provide assistance with accounting and other tasks as required; such as organizing
training, or information dissemination events, or drafting terms o f reference.


                                                 - 78 -

TUB specific responsibilities would include:
  0  The initiationpreparation and follow up o f all activities included inthe components inclose
     coordination with the beneficiary institutions, which are responsible for the execution o f
     their respective sub-components;
  0  Maintenance o f accounts and records for the components;
  0  Reportingon progressand evaluation o fresults incoordination with the PMU; and
     Provide assistance to the beneficiaries in preparingthe terms of reference for the studies
     needed.

5. Overall Organization Structure

The overall organization structure for program implementation i s illustrated on the chart below.


    TECHNICAL3WYAGEMENT                          MONITORING,               TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT
        (urban"ppdne)                     FlNAYClALAND PROCUREMENT                                      FNAVCIALCONTROL
                                                MANAGEMENT                    (Haurbg w t o r refom)




                                             URBANDEVELOPMENT                                                STEERING




                                                                   -I
          URBANDEVELOPMENT                                                                I
                                                                      NATIONAL LANDAND
            & REVITALIZATION                                              HOUSING
             ORGANI7ATION                                              ORGANIWTION




                           &CITY                                                                            UPGRADING
                                              ORGANIZATION




                           LOCAL
                       ORGANIZATIONS

                       -/

           ~COMMUNITIES                        CONTRACTORS


                                        ~




                                                         - 79 -

        AdditionalAnnex 12: Job description of Key Project Management Staff
 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project

                             PMUProject Director (job number - 1; full-time)

Reporting to: Minister o f Housing and Urban Development
Main Function: The PMU Project Director will be responsible for the management an(
imdementation o f the UUHRF'.
 Duties and Responsibilities:
 (a)- Overall management o f and coordination o f the unit and Secretariat o f the ISC.
 (b)-Monitoring ofTUA and TUB.
 (c)- Preparation and execution o f the Unit's Budget.
 (d)- Management ofWHRP special account.
 (e)- Co signatory o f all checks emitted by the unit.
 (0-Liasingwith World Bank
 (g)- programming and project management including the review o f the yearly upgradii
 programs.
 (h)-timely implementation and early identification ofpotential execution delays and changes
 program costs.
 (i)- administrationincludingtheauthorizationofdisbursements
     project
 0)- participating all project reviews, particularly the mid-term review
                   in
 (k)- consolidation and preparation o f the quarterly, annual and Implementation Completii
 Report (ICR).
 (1)- coordination with government institutions for the smooth execution o f project activities
 described in the OM. This includes the streamlining o f local consultation with the Governors
 municipalities and other key stakeholders.
 (m)-carrying-out strategic planning andupgrading policy formulation
 (n)- supervising the sound and timely development and implementation of the Financia
 Management Information System (FMIS).
 MinimumQualifications:
 (a)- post-graduate University Degree in Economic Development and/or Social Development
 a n d or Civil Engineering and/or Urban Planning with at least fifteen (15) years o f relevant
 experience in participatory systems o f local and community development including 5 in an
 executive position..
 (b)-Proven ability to lead, manage andmotivate multi-disciplinary groups o f professionals and
 senior public servants.
 (c)-Proven ability to establish andmaintain contacts at very highlevel both inthe government
 and with international organizations.
 (d)- ability to deal with international lending and donor institutions as well as substantial work
 experience on projects indeveloping countries
 (e)- experience inmanaging contracts and developing, monitoring and managing projects
 funded by the government and international agencies.
 (0-fluent inspoken and written EnglishandFarsi.
 (8)- familiar with project management computer programs and applications.




                                                  - 80 -

                          PMUProcurementOfficer (`job number - 1.1; full-time)

Reportingto: P M UProject Director
Main Function: The function o f the PMUPO is to supervise the procurement activities
under the project, to prepare tender documents, to participate inthe evaluation o f tenders and
contract awards, and signing o f contracts. Depending on the workload and need for
specialized services, the PO may be assisted by outside consultants.
Dutiesand Responsibilities:
(a)- prepares standard bid documents for the procurement o f works, goods and consultant
services inaccordance to the World Bank's recommendedprocedures. The PO shall obtain the
World Bank's "non-objection" to the standarddocuments before bids or requests for proposals
are launched at the central and local levels.
(b)- ensures adherence to procurement procedures and other operational procedures under the
project and i s responsible for the P M U compliance with the provisions o f the Loan Agreement
and the Operations Manual, paying particular attention to the procurement and disbursement
conditions.
(c)- develops and maintains an updated procurement plan to be submitted to the P M U Project
Director.
(d)-maintains accurate procurement records, including all actions and documents relatedto the
project, This includes advertisement, preparation o f bids, invitation to bid, record of bid
submissions, bid opening, evaluation o f bids, contract award and performance o f the contracts.
The procurement files should be maintained for review by World Bank supervision missions.
(e)- facilitates post-review andprocurement audits on a randombasis by the Bank;
(Q- provision o fprocurement technical assistance to the Provincial Executive Officer's unit.
(g)- forward copies o f the standard documents to the procurement unit created at Housing and
Urban Development Organization (HUDO) and, if requested, will provide workshops to
HUDOsprocurement staff.
(h)-participate inreviewing bids or consultant proposals and bidevaluation reports regarding
contracts at the central level.
(i)-participates in the preparation o f the quarterly progress reports submitted by PMU to the
Bank.
0)- maintains accurate procurement records including advertisement, invitation     to bid, record
o f bid submission, minutes of bid opening, bid evaluation report, contract award and
performance record o f the contract. The procurement files should be maintained for review by
World Bank suDervision missions.
MinimumQualifications:
(a)- university graduate degree inEngineering, Management or Business Administration
(b)- at least eight (8) years experience in the procurement o f a large number o f civil works
contracts and in the procurement o f goods and consultant services. Knowledge or previous
experience with World Bank procurement procedures would be useful.
(c)- experience in contract management
(d)- fluent inspokenand written Englishand Farsi.
(e)- must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications.
(Q- Training inBank procurement procedures will be provided.




                                                 -81 -

                           PMUFinancialOfficer oob number - 1.2; hll-time)

Reportingto: PMUProject Director
MainFunction: Financial management, disbursement andreporting including maintaining
accounting records inline with international standardsand incompliance with the requirements
o f Iranpublic finance accounting and financial control requirements. To follow on the project
accounts, generate the project financial reports and provide guidance on Financial
Management and disbursements to the Provincial Accountants
Dutiesand Responsibilities:
(a)- prepares disbursement schedules for the Project Director review andfollow-up.
(b)-develops and implements accounting control procedures for the dsbursement o f the proceed
o f the project;
(c)- maintains proper accounting and administrative records for all project activities;
(d)-prepares the project financial manual o fpolicies andprocedures
(e)- set up the yearly budgetreflecting the operations o f the project implemented by the MHUD
through its provincial offices and the NLHO.
(f)-coordinates with the FCto pledgecounter-fund.allocation for project implementation.
(g)- manages the accounting for the project Special Account (reconcile and replenish).
(h)-follow-up oncontracts signedwith suppliers and consultants regarding, bid& performance
securities, validity, implementation andpayments.
(i)- themonthlyreportsfromtheprovincialofficesandpostthetransactionsand
     receives
contracts into the accounting system.
0)- prepares disbursement schedules and financial forecasts for the project.
(k)- processes invoices andpost all financial transactions to the accounting system.
(1)- records andmanages all committed funds.
(m)-safeguards the project supporting documentation for auditingpurposes
(n)-coordinates with the FC allmatters relatedto the project disbursements, audits and
accounts.
(0)-  communicates with the project external auditor.
MinimumQualifications:
(a)- Business Administration or Accounting Degree with a minimumo f 5 years o f experience
(b)- proficiency inwritten and spoken EnglishandFarsi.
(c)- must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications including working with Excel
spreadsheets, word processing and accounting software.
(d)-familiar with bothIranianand international accounting standards.




                                                 - 82 -

                        WDO Procurement Officer oob number - 1.1; full-time)

Reporting to: HUDO Director o f Contracts
Main Function: The Procurement Officer will be situated in the HUDO and will report to
the Director for Contracts. Depending on the workload and need for specialized services, the
procurement officer may be assisted by outside consultants.
Duties and Responsibilities:
(a)- responsible for verifying and completingthe date for each specific request for proposals
from consultants or bid document for works or goods to be launched.
(b)- ensuresthat no significant changes are introduced to the original basic standard documents
received from the PMU, which are prepared inaccordance with World Bank's recommended
procedures.
(c)- participates inreviewing bids or consultant proposals and inthe preparation o fbid
evaluation reports.
(d)- ensures adherence to Bankprocurement procedures and other operational procedures
under the project andwill
(e)- participates inthe quarterly progress reports submitted by HUDOto the PMU.
(f)-maintains accurate procurement records. This includes advertisement, invitation to bid
record o f bid submission, minutes o f bid opening, bid evaluation report, contract award anc
performance record of the contract. The procurement files should be maintained for review bj
World Bank suDervision missions.
MinimumQualifications:
(a)- university graduate degree inEngineering, Management or Business Administration
(b)- at least eight (8) years experience in the procurement of a large number o f civil works
contracts and in the procurement o f goods and consultant services. Knowledge or previous
experience with World Bank procurement procedures would be useful.
(c)- experience incontract management
(d)- fluent inspoken and written EnglishandFarsi.
(e)- must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications.
(f)- Training inBankprocurement procedures will be provided.




                                                 - 83 -

                           TUA ProjectManager ('job number -2.1; full-time)
Reportingto: PMUProject Director
MainFunction: The TUA Project Managerwill be responsible for the implementation o f
Component-A o f the project.
DutiesandResponsibilities:
(a)- timely implementation o f Component-A o f the project while maintaining the Projec
Director informed o fpotential execution delays and changes incosts.
(b)- ensuring that sub-projects are screened inorder to identify those classified EA Category B
for further review and monitoring the implementation o f the appropriate mitigative measures.
(c)- supervising all project activities under Component-A, including its field activities and
ensuring that monitoring is camed out efficiently, rapidly, and ina transparent manner
(d)- providing the TUA non-objection for all disbursements to be made under Component-A o f
the project
(e)- preparing the technical quarterly and annual progress reports as well as the implementatior
campletion reports;
(f)- coordinating with government institutions the smooth execution of project activities a!
described in the OM. This includes the streamlining o f local consultation with the Governor
municipalitiesand other key stakeholders.
(g)- undertaking regular field visits to control and monitor the implementation o f the ciq
upgrading programs.
(h)-documents andvalidates the learning experience from the project.
(i)- monitors progress towards meeting the project's general and specific objectives includinl
progress with key policy reforms under Component-A o f the project.
Q)- develops monitoring and evaluation procedures and establishes a monitoring and reportin1
system that would facilitate the compilation of quarterly and yearly progress reports;
(k)-approving the city upgrading programs
(1)- responsible for the preparation o f upgrading programs in participating cities under APL
andAPL2.
(m)-responsible for the adherence toland or enforcement of Program safeguards andprocedures
(n)- responsible for ensuring adequate supervision o f works and timely formal transfer o
completed infrastructure to responsible organizations.
(0)- reports on implementation progress o f Component-A to the     PMUProject Director.
(p)- responsible for the preparation of the technical part of the bidding documents for thc
procurement o f services, works andgoods.
MinimumQualifications:
(a)- post-graduate University Degree in Economic Development and/or Social Development
and/or Civil Engineering and/or Urban Planning with at least fifteen (10) years o f relevant
experience inparticipatory systems o f local and community development
(b)- ability to deal with international lending and donor institutions as well as substantial work
experience on projects indeveloping countries
(c)- experience inmanaging contracts and developing, monitoring andmanaging projects
funded by the international agencies.
(d)-experience in social development and local capacity buildingand in working with NGOs.
(e)- fluent in spoken andwritten EnglishandFarsi.
(0-strong familiarity inworking with Computer Programs andApplications.
(g)-experience in or familiarity with Urban Upgrading and community enabling as well as
international best practices
(h)-ability to lead, manage and motivate multi-disciplinary staff.


                                                  - 84 -

                            TUBProjectManager(job number -2.2; full-time)

Reportingto: PMUProject Director
Main Function: The TUB Project Manager will be responsible for the implementation o f
Component-B o f the project.
DutiesandResponsibilities:
(a)- timely implementation o f Component-B o f the project while maintaining the Projec
Director informed o fpotential execution delays and changes incosts.
(b)- supervising all project activities under Component-B and ensuring that monitoring i
carried out efficiently, rapidly, and ina transparent manner
(d)- providingthe TUB non-objection for all disbursements to bemade under Component-A o f
the project
(e)- preparing the technical quarterly and annual progress reports as well as the implementatior
completion reports;
(f)- coordinating with government institutions the smooth execution o f project activities a
described in the OM. This includes the streamlining o f consultation with partner agencie
involved in the implementation of Component-B activities.
(g)- monitors progress towards meeting the project's general and specific objectives includinl
progress with key policy reforms under Component-B o f the project.
(h)- responsible for the preparation of the technical part of the bidding documents for thl
procurement o f services and goods.
MinimumQualifications:
(a)- post-graduate University Degree in Financial Analysis andor Economic Analysis andor
Housing and Urban Planning with at least fifteen (15) years o f relevant experience in
participatory systems o f local and community development
(b)- ability to deal with international lending and donor institutions as well as substantial work
experience on projects indeveloping countries
(c)- experience inmanaging contracts and developing, monitoring andmanaging projects
funded by the international agencies.
(d)-experience inthe preparation of a long-term development strategy andproject
identification and appraisal
(e)- experience insocial development and local capacity buildingand inworking with NGOs.
(0-fluent inspokenandwritten EnglishandFarsi.
(g)-strong familiarity inworking with Computer Programs and Applications.




                                                  - 85 -

         Additional Annex 13: Project Cycle for Urban Upgrading (Component A)
   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project



      Activity sequence      I  ResponsibleInstitution       Approval/validation                 World Bank
1- City selection             P M U                       ISC
2- Feasibility study        I1UDRO:, selected city                                            No-objection TORS+
                                                                                              Proc.
                                                          Executive Upgrading Committee


                              Same as above               Same as above
                                                          Same as above
                                                          Same as above   + formal approval
                                                         by selected city

0   Evaluation o f            Consultant                  Selected city,
                                                          UDRO
                                                          Selected city + local organizations
                                                          + representative from
                                                          participating communities.
                                                          UDRO                                Bank review
o f Investment Program
RAP ifwarranted               Consultant                  UDRO,                               Bank review
                                                          Selected city
5- Submittal o f Investment   Selected city.              PMU                                 Bank review
Program for Financing
Ifapproved
6- Implementation:            HUDO                        Supervisory engineers
                              Selected city, local        HUDO
                              organizations,              Selected city, local organizations,
                              participating communities.  participating communities.
    Detailed design and       Consultants                 HUDO, Municipality and              World Bank
    BiddingDocuments                                      responsible local organization.     No-objection

0   Procurement               HUDO                        Municipality and responsible local  World Bank
                                                          organization.                       No-objection.

0   Supervision o f works     Supervisory engineers       Municipality and responsible local
                              HUDO                        organization.
                              Municipality
                              Responsible local
                              organization

0   Formal reception          Supervisory engineers       Municipality and responsible local
                              HUDO                        organization.
                              Municipality
                              Responsible local
                              organization
7- Operation and              Responsible local
maintenance                   organization.




                                                  - 86 -

MAP SECTION

             40
              To Ankara           45               AZERBAIJAN              50                                 55                                     60
                                     ARMENIA                                                                                                                                          UZBEKISTAN
            TURKEY                                                                                                         T U R K M E N I S T A N
                                                        Aras
                            Khvoy                                               Caspian                                 To Turkmenbashy
                                      AZARBAYJAN-E
                                      - -         -   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ISLAMIC
                                           SHARQI--   -  Ardebil-                  Sea                                                                                                                                                                       REP. OF IRAN
                                                  Tabriz    ARDABIL

                    Orumiyeh
                        - -                                        -                                           Atrek             Atrak                      To Ashgabat
                                                                                                                                Bojnurd
                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                          Rasht
                 AZARBAYJAN-E
                  - -      -   -                                                                         GOLESTAN    -
                      GHARBI-                                            GILAN
                                                                           - -
                                     Mahabad
                                           - -
                                                        Zanjan
                                                            -                                      Sari
                                                                                                    - -       Gorgan
                                                                    -                                                                            Mashhad    Sarakhs
                                                        -   ZANJAN        Qazvin         -           -
                                        KORDESTAN                         -            MAZANDARAN                     -
                                                                               TEHRAN -                             Shahrud
                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                         Sabzevar
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                            SEMNAN     -
                                                 Sanandaj                               TEHRAN
             35    I R A Q                                 HAMADAN    -                               Semnan
                                                                                                            -                                                                                         35
                                                              Hamedan -                                                                                     -   -
                                   KERMANSHAH--      -                                                                                                     Taybad
                                                                                                          Dasht-e-Kavir
                                         Kermanshah-
                     To Baghdad                                     MARKAZI-       Qom                      (salt desert)                                                                                                               ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                                          Gonabad
                                                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                                                                                               To Herat                                               REPUBLIC
                                              -Ilam
                                                 -            -           Arak
                                                                            -           Kashan
                                                                                         -  -
                                                     LORESTAN                                  E S F A H A- N                          K H O R A- S A- N
                         To Baghdad                        Khorramabad
                                                                     - -                                                                                                AFGHANISTAN                                                   OF IRAN
                                                                                              -(                                                Birjand
                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                        Esfahan
                                                                         Shahr-e
                                         Tigris                                                             Y A Z D                                                        To Delaram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                            Yazd
                                                          KHUZESTAN   -   CHAHAR MAHALL
                                                                            Kord-      -
                                                                                 -  --
                    Euphrates                                               VA-BAKHTIARI                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                      Bafq
                                                                                                                       -                                                                                                                PROVINCE (OSTAN) CAPTIALS
                                                        Ahvaz
                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                             Zabol
                                                                                                                                                                               -                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                         KOHGILUYEH VA
                                                                              - -
                                                                          BUYER AHMADI-
                                                                           -                                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                                        Yasuj
                                                                                          - -                                                                                      Helm and                                             RAILROADS
             30                                                                                                                         Kerman
                                                                                                                                              -                                                       30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE (OSTAN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -


                                                                                        Shiraz
                                                                                           - -
                                                 KUWAIT                                           F A- R S                    - -
                                                                                                                                K E R M A- N                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                            Zahedan
                                                                                                                                                               -    -
                                                                                                                            Sirjan                 Bam
                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                        To Quetta
                                                                         Bushehr
                                                                          -

                                To Unayzah
                                                                           BUSHEHR
                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                              SISTAN VA
                                                                                                                                                                 -     -

                                                                                                                                                          BALUCHESTAN
                                                                                                                                                                  -             -

                                                                                  Bandar-e                                                                                                               PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                      HORMOZGAN        -
                                                                                   Kangan
                                                                                        -                                                                                -Iranshahr
                                                                                                                                                                            -

                                                                                                                                   Bandar
                                                                                                                                        -                                                             To Bela

                                                                                                                                   'Abbas
                                                                            BAHRAIN                                                                                                                                           0          100          200 Kilometers

                               S A U D I                                                                   Bandar-e
                                                                                                             Langeh                                                                            To Bela
                                                                                                                                                Jask
                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                            0         50       100        150        200 Miles
                             A R A B I A
             25                                                              QATAR
OCTOBER

                                                                                                               ARAB    EMIRATES                                Chabahar
                                                                                                                                                                  -    -                              25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD
                                                                                                                                          Gulf of Oman                           Arabian                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information       32128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
       2002                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  45                                                  50                             UNITED                                                                        Sea
                                                                                                                    55        OMAN                               60                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

