Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4739-IRN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 17, 2004 
 
Page  2
-2-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4739-IRN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 2004, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated January 
18, 
2004, describing the Borrower’s program of actions, objectives and policies  designed 
to facilitate the transition of the Borrower’s housing sector into a market-led sector, and 
improve housing conditions for low and moderate income households (the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
 (B) the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of loans, over a period of approximately twelve (12) years, to 
be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program, of which the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) forms the first phase; and 
 WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“CBI”   means the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran; 
(b) 
“CBO” means a community-based organization; 
(c) 
“Environmental Plan and Manual” means the Environmental 
Management Plan and the Environmental Guidelines Manual furnished to the Bank in 
November 2004 setting forth procedures and guidelines to assess Sub-projects for 
purposes of ensuring compliance with environmental and social safeguard standards, as 
the same may be amended from time to time by agreement of the Borrower and the Bank; 
Page  4
-2-
(d) 
“EUC” means an Executive Upgrading Committee operating at the local 
level and chaired by the governor or the deputy governor of a province in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“HUDO” means the Housing and Urban Development Organization 
representing MHUD at the provincial level; 
(g) 
“ISC” means the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee to be maintained 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“MEAF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Affairs and 
Finance or any successor thereto; 
(i) 
“MHUD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Development or any successor thereto; 
(j) 
“MOI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior or any successor 
thereto; 
(k) 
“MPO” means the Borrower’s Management and Planning Organization; 
(l) 
“NGO” means a non- governmental organization; 
(m) 
“NLHO” means the National Land and Housing Organization within 
MHUD; 
(n) 
“Participating Municipality” means a municipality of the Borrower  
eligible to participate in the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual; 
(o) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Project Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s Project operations 
manual furnished to the Bank on March 25, 2004, and to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(r) 
“Sub-Project” means an urban upgrading project whose objectives 
include the execution of civil works under Part A.1 of the Project, the carrying out of 
community enabling programs or the carrying out of municipal capacity building 
programs, all in accordance with criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual; 
(s) 
“Technical Unit A” means the Technical Unit to be established, and 
thereafter maintained, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.4 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-3-
(t) 
“Technical Unit B” means the Technical Unit to be established, and 
thereafter maintained, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.4 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
(u) 
“Technical Units” means, collectively, Technical Unit A and Technical 
Unit B; and 
(v) 
“UDRO” means the Urban Development and Rehabilitation 
Organization within MHUD. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
million United States Dollars (US$80,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank in the territory of the 
Borrower, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay Commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Commission Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Commission Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
Page  6
-4-
initial period, each  period from and including a Commission 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Commission 
Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Commission Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Commission Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such Commission Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Commission Period, for value the Commission 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Commission Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Commission Period: (A) 
three fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%) (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Commission Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread of each Commission Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the commission rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the commission rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the commission rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the 
new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the 
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Commission and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Page  7
-5-
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, environmental and urban upgrading and housing 
reform practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the Project Operations Manual and the Environmental Plan and Manual. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  8
-6-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph D (b)(i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Page  9
-7-
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  10
-8-
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance 
 
Davar Avenue 
 
Tehran 
Islamic Republic of Iran 
 
Facsimile:  
 
98 21 39 01 033; or 
 
98
21
39
10 024 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, as of the day and year first above written. 
Page  11
-9-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
By /s/ Safdar Hosseini 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-10-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed
(1) Works 
48,380,000 
75%  
 
(2) 
Goods, 
2,180,000 
100% of foreign 
 equipment 
and 
 
expenditures, 
 
vehicles 
 
100% of local 
 
 
 
expenditures  
 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’  
 
 
 
 services 
 and 
training: 
 
(a) Consultants 
20,000,000 
88% of local 
 
domiciled within 
 
expenditures 
 
the Borrower’s 
 
territory 
 
(b) Other consultants 
5,770,000 
95% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Fee 
800,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
(5) Unallocated 
_2,870,000
TOTAL
 
80,000,000  
 
======== 
 
Page  13
-11-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (2), (3)(a) and (3)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 
31, 2004. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, except for the first two (2) contracts; 
(b) goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, except for the first two (2) 
contracts; (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $40,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-12-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project, which forms the first phase of a three-phase 
adaptable program covering a period of twelve (12) years, are to assist the Borrower in: 
(i) instituting an integrated approach to upgrading informal settlements; and (ii) initiating 
housing sector reform and putting in place the requisite systems, frameworks and human 
and institutional capabilities required therefor. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Urban Upgrading
1. 
Carrying out an urban upgrading program consisting of the design, 
implementation and supervision of Sub-projects and capacity building activities, together 
with the preparation of city development strategies, and feasibility and design studies. 
2. 
Design of urban upgrading programs for the second phase of the Program, if any, 
including the preparation of environmental and social assessments, and feasibility studies. 
3. 
Development of funding arrangements for urban upgrading activities to be 
carried out under the second and third phases of the Program, if any, to ensure an 
integrated and sustainable approach to urban upgrading. 
Part B
:
Housing Reform
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MHUD in the area of housing and land 
management through the development of methodologies, systems, procedures and 
institutional designs for monitoring housing and land markets, estimating demand and 
providing support for municipal decision making. 
2. 
Assisting in the development of a housing finance market through the provision 
of support in assessing and managing liquidity risk associated with contractual housing 
savings schemes, and the revision of the preferential regulatory treatment of housing 
finance institutions. 
3. 
Streamlining housing subsidies through the establishment of a comprehensive 
system to monitor and evaluate housing subsidies, and develop demand-side housing 
subsidy instruments. 
Part C
:
Project Management
Support, through the provision of goods, including office equipment, consultants’ 
services and training, to MHUD in the areas of Project management and Project 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  15
-13-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)* 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
beginning January 15, 2010 
 through 
January 
15, 
2021   3,335,000 
 
and on July 15, 2021 
 
 
 
3,295,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-14-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate not to exceed $70,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract , up to an aggregate not exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Said procedures shall  ensure, 
inter alia
,
that: (i) the format of the bidding documents shall 
be consistent with the Bank’s standard bidding documents; (ii) tenders shall be advertised 
in local newspapers of wide circulation with a bid submission deadline of 28 days from the 
date of advertisement; (iii) government-owned enterprises shall be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders and shall not be eligible to bid for 
contracts unless they: (a) are legally and financially autonomous; (b) operate under the 
provisions of the Borrower’s commercial law; and (c) are not selected by the supervising or 
reporting ministry or governmental agency; (iv) all bids shall be submitted in sealed 
envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; (v) all bids shall be 
opened at the same time in public; (vi) all bids shall be opened on the day on which the 
deadline for bid submission falls, or very soon thereafter; (vii) prospective bidders may 
submit two (2) envelopes provided said envelopes shall be opened at the same time; (viii) 
all bids shall be evaluated on the basis of price and other criteria disclosed in the bid 
documents, and no provision for preferential treatment for national companies shall apply; 
(ix) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder; (x) no bidder 
Page  17
-15-
shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid after the bid’s closing date shall 
have elapsed; and (xi) price negotiations with the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall 
be prohibited. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Minor Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Works of an emergency nature estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate not to exceed $200,000 equivalent,  may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more; (iii) the first two (2) contracts for works estimated to 
cost less than $500,000 equivalent; and (iv) the first two (2) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than $250,000. 
Page  18
-16-
(b) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Part D, 
with respect to the first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C above and the first two (2) contracts for 
works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 
of Part C above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, and the selection of any contractor 
under the procurement of minor works and/or the direct 
contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  19
-17-
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Specialized advisory services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Single-Source 
Selection
In exceptional cases, and wherever justified in the context of the overall interests 
of the Borrower and the Project, single-source selection of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants procured under Part C.2 or Part C.3 of Section II of 
this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  20
-18-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
A. 
 Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall vest in MHUD the overall responsibility for the carrying out 
of the Project. MHUD shall operate under the oversight of ISC, and shall be supported in 
the carrying out of its responsibilities by PMU. MHUD shall carry out Part A of the 
Project in coordination with UDRO and Part B in coordination with NLHO, and shall 
directly carry out Part C of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain ISC with functions, 
satisfactory to the Bank. ISC’s 
membership shall include representatives of MOI, MEAF, CBI, MPO and MHUD . The 
responsibilities of ISC shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) providing advice on the reform 
strategy for the housing sector and the appropriate design of the Program; (ii) 
coordinating Project-related decisions; and (iii) removing impediments to the timely 
implementation of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain PMU, within MHUD, with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank. PMU, 
inter alia
,
shall be responsible for: (i) the 
procurement and financial management processes under the Project, including the 
maintenance of accounting records, preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports and the 
submission of said reports to the Bank; (ii) monitoring the Project’s implementation and 
the auditing of the Project’s accounts; and (iii) furnishing the Bank with bi-annual 
investment program proposals and the quarterly progress reports referred to under 
paragraph D (b) (i) of this Schedule. 
4. 
PMU shall be assisted in the carrying out of its responsibilities by Technical 
Unit A to be established, not later than July 31, 2004, and thereafter maintained, in close 
coordination with UDRO and Technical Unit B, to be established, not later than July 31, 
2004, and thereafter maintained, in close coordination with NLHO. The qualifications 
and experience of core staff of the Technical Units, together with the terms and 
conditions of their employment, shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The main 
responsibilities of Technical Unit A and Technical Unit B shall consist in assisting in the 
implementation of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, including (i) the 
management and supervision of day-to day Project activities, (ii) the submission to PMU 
of quarterly Project progress reports for consolidation and onward submission by PMU to 
the Bank; and (iii) the monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s developmental impact. 
B. 
Part A.1 of the Project
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: 
(a) Sub-Projects shall be identified and prepared by Participating Municipalities under the 
auspices of the respective EUC and in accordance with the procedures and other 
provisions set forth or referred to in the Project Operations Manual; (b) MHUD shall be  
responsible for executing Sub-projects; and (c) the respective HUDO shall designate a 
Project manager, together with adequate support staff, to assist the Participating 
Page  21
-19-
Municipality, NGO or CBO, as the case may be, in the implementation of its 
responsibilities under Part A.1 of the Project. 
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, no expenditures for 
works required for a Sub-Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Part A.1 of the Project, unless the Borrower shall 
have carried out, in accordance with the Environmental Plan and Manual, an 
environmental assessment for the Sub-Project, and shall have undertaken processes and 
activities to mitigate any negative environmental impacts of such Sub-Project in 
accordance with the Environmental Plan and Manual, together with evidence, satisfactory 
to the Bank, that the Sub-Project shall not involve any land expropriation or involuntary 
resettlement of the local population and/or businesses. 
C. Project 
Operations 
Manual
The Borrower shall maintain, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, the 
Project Operations Manual which, 
inter alia
:
(i) sets forth the respective roles and 
responsibilities of the different ministries and agencies of the Borrower involved in the 
implementation of the Project; and (ii) includes the Environmental Plan and Manual, the 
accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements under the Project, and the 
monitoring and evaluation procedures to be followed under the Project. 
D. 
  Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: 
 (a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set out in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank (i) commencing January 31, 2005, quarterly reports on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not later than October 31, 2006, a report, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 (c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
Page  22
-20-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) (a) and 
(3)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account  plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $15,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Page  23
-21-
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
Page  24
-22-
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.  
Page  25
-23-
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
A.  
Outcome/Impact Indicators: 
1. 
Increase in service coverage and improved access to basic infrastructure services 
in upgraded settlements. 
2. 
Increase in the level of satisfaction of households in upgraded settlements with 
their living conditions. 
3. 
Improved municipal capacity to plan development, coordinate investments and 
community initiatives within the jurisdiction of Participating Municipalities. 
4. 
Public land in the jurisdiction of Participating Municipalities has been allocated 
in a transparent manner, and in response to a market demand.  
5. 
A system for introducing demand-side housing subsidies has been established. 
6. 
Reduced liquidity risk associated with loan-linked housing savings schemes thus 
maintaining a positive net treasury position. 
7. 
Increased efficiency of the primary housing finance markets with active 
participation of private banks as demonstrated by mortgage loans issued by at 
least six (6) banks, of which three (3) will be private.  
B.  
Output Indicators: 
1.  Studies for the preparation of community-enabling, and urban and institutional 
upgrading programs have been carried out. 
2. 
Upgrading Sub-Projects have been carried out in poor neighborhoods.  
3. 
City development strategies have been completed with broad participation in at 
least three (3) participating cities. 
4. 
Number of municipal employees trained in the Participating Municipalities. 
5. 
Pilot community-led Sub-projects completed, documented and disseminated 
within the territorial jurisdiction of the Participating Municipalities. 
6. 
Prepared feasibility studies for Sub-Projects to be implemented during the 
second Phase of the Program, if any.  
7. 
The Borrower has revised existing building codes and standards, and put such 
revisions into effect. 
8. 
The Borrower has established and put into effect a transparent system to release 
public land systematically and in response to market demand for urban 
expansion in at least three (3) participating cities. 
Page  26
-24-
9. 
The Borrower has adopted an appropriate framework, and developed asset-
liability management models, for assessing and monitoring liquidity risks and 
contingent liabilities associated with the existing loan-linked contractual housing 
savings schemes. 
10. 
The Borrower has eliminated the preferential regulatory treatment for Bank 
Maskan for all market-based transactions. 
11. 
The Borrower has established an information system, together with appropriate 
data, on housing subsidies collected on a regular basis, and has produced and 
disseminated reports thereon annually. 
12. 
The Borrower has put into effect a system to introduce instruments for demand-
side housing subsidies. 
13. 
The Borrower has established and put into effect a system to monitor and collect 
data on national housing and land. 
 
