ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Froc of Povorty
InfoShop                                                              24317
June 12, 2002
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initialy
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/12/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF                Project ID: P073433
Project: IR-Low Income Housing                   Task Team Leader: Omar M. Razzaz
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 15, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m): 112.00
Bank Approval: May 29, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSIF                              Sector: UH - Urban Housing
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: URBAN
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The main objectives of the proposed program are to support the Government's effort in the housing
sector in (a) providing affordable housing to low to moderate income households; and (b) further
developing the market institutions of the housing sector (insurance, finance, construction, real estate).
These objectives will be realized in three phases: A first phase focusing on housing sector reforms and
priority interventions to improve living conditions of the poor in under-serviced settlements in three
cities; a second phase focusing on increasing long term resource mobilization for housing finance and
city wide upgrading in the urban centers of three cities; and a third phase focusing on deepening the
impact of the housing sector reforms and up-scaling upgrading programs countrywide. The exact phasing
of the APL and the triggers for the different phases will be discussed during project preparation and
reviewed at pre-appraisal.
Specifically, phase I will focus on:
i)     piloting improvements in housing conditions in some of the poorest urban areas in Iran;
ii)   reducing household vulnerability to earthquake risk; and
iii)   setting a strategy for housing policy reform (finance, subsidies, construction, land markets, and
urban management).
Phase I will launch the implementation of the strategy for housing policy reform developed and adopted
in phase I. It will focus on:
i)     deepening of the housing finance sector (reducing credit rationing, deregulation, capital markets,
secondary markets);
ii)    streamlining housing subsidy policy; and
iii)  improving livability in run down urban centers of historic cities.



2
ISDS
Phase III will scale up programs introduced in phases I and II. It will focus on:
i)    designing and funding a national fund for slum upgrading;
ii)   developing a national program for capacity building for municipalities in a decentralized context;
and providing technical assistance on further policy reforms to be determined in phase 11.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Phase I of the proposed Program would have three components:
Comopnent A.    Upgrading, services, and capacity building of targeted cities;
Component B.    Earthquake insurance and mitigation scheme; and.
Component C.    Technical assistance on housing sector reform and project management.
Component A (US$68 million): Upgrading, services, and capacity building of targeted cities:
A.1 Upgrading poor neighborhoods (US$25 million):
Investment in infrastructure networks to improve access to basic services in poor urban settlements in
selected cities. Selection criteria will be developed during the project preparation but it will be mainly
determined through the level of poverty, deficiency in basic services and needs for social inclusion. The
component is proposed to include both on-site improvement and off-site land development (see A3).
A.2 Small infrastructure in support of employment generation (US$15 million):
To address the social needs of the population particularly women and youth, in parallel with the
above upgrading sub-component, small social infrastructure are proposed to support income and
employment generation activities at the settlement level.
A.3 Trunk infrastructure for guided land development for low-income housing (US$25 million):
Off-site development is regarded as an extension of the currently expanding informal settlements in the
peri-urban area to facilitate guided development in place of uncontrolled sprawl (this component will
possibly be incorporated in the current water project under preparation).
AA4 TA for city management capacity building (US$3 million):
TA is geared to support capacity development of staff at the provincial and municipal levels on
city/urban management to improve capacity in prioritizing of  needs, planning, budgeting,
implementation and monitoring local-level investments. A participatory/enabling approach will be
integrated in the TA.



3
ISDS
Component B (US$62 million): Earthquake-insurance and mitigation scheme:
B.1 TA and business feasibility studies (US$ 5 million)
This includes studies, technical advisory services and acquisition of equipments including: (i)
vulnerability assessments of Iranian housing stock, (ii) study to determine rates for earthquake insurance
coverage in different parts of the country and preparation of GIS based hazard maps; (iii) modeling of the
National Catastrophe Insurance Pool (NCIP) risk exposures and capitalization requirements; (iv)
preparation of operational guidelines and NCIP business plan; (v) public information campaign; (vi)
training for the NCIP staff; and, (vii) acquisition of IT systems for the NCIP.
B.2 Reinsurance premium (US$25 million)
This subcomponent will finance the costs of the NCIP's first year reinsurance program. In the first
several years of the ICIP's operation, its claims paying capacity will rely mainly on intemational
reinsurance. The reinsurance industry requires reinsurance premiums to be paid up front at a time of the
reinsurance placement. As the pool's surplus quickly builds up (in the absence of large earthquakes), it
is expected that the NCIP would be able to cover the costs of reinsurance premium in the second year of
its operations.
B.3 Contingent capital facility (US$ 30 million)
The proposed contingent capital facility will support the NCIP's claim paying capability. The facility
will be made available to NCIP by the Government under a special sub-loan agreement and could be
called only to pay claims according to the pre-agreed terms.
B.4 Support for the BHRC for development and dissemination of technology (US$5 million):
This TA provides technical advisory service, institutional strengthening so that the BHRD can develop
affordable earthquake-resistant construction technology and effectively disseminate on a national-scale.
Component C (US$10 million): Technical assistance on housing sector reform
C.l TA on housing finance reform and business study for secondary mortgage (US$3 million):
This is geared to support reforms to reduce credit rationing; Housing Bank targeted reforms; improved
access to the capital market; and development of secondary mortgage market.
C.2 TA on subsidies reform (US$1 million):
This TA is geared to developing a transitional plan to develop better targeted and direct subsidies in the
housing sector. It will support preparation of pilot reforms to be implemented in Phase II.
C.3 TA on a real estate observatory (US$1 million):
TA to assist the design and implement housing policy support systems.
C.4 Long term and short term TA to NHC, UDRO, MHIUD, MPO, and CBI on program implementation
(US$5 million):



4
ISDS
Institutional strengthening and capacity development of staff in the above agencies to be equipped with
necessary skills and knowledge to implement Phase I and replicate the program at the national level in
Phase 11 and 111.
Components:
A. Upgrading, services, and capacity building of targeted cities:
A. I Upgrading poor neighborhoods
A.2 Small infrastructure in support of employment generation
A.3 Trunk infrastructure for land development
A.4 TA for city management capacity building
B. Earthquake insurance and mitigation scheme:
B.1 TA and business feasibility studies
B.2 Reinsurance premium
B.3 Contingent capital facility
B.4 Support for the (BHRC) for development and dissemination of technology
C. TA on housing sector reform
C.l TA on housing finance reform and business study for secondary mortgage
C.2 TA on subsidies reform
C.3 TA on real estate observatory
C.4 Long term and short term consultancies to NHC and UDRO on program implementation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
One of the potential target cities in the Phase I of the Program is Zahedan, located close to the far-eastern
border sharing with Pakistan and Afghanistan. The city has more than twenty years of incoming migration
from Afghanistan. They have settled in peri-urban areas. The long-time resident of the Afghan population
has been more socially and geographically (closer to the city boundary) integrated with the city population
than newcomers/recent migrants. Community participation has become a norm to this population and
communities have taken various initiatives for upgrading and socioeconomic development. For example, in
one community, the residents voluntarily set back and gave up part of their plot for road widening and
paving in exchange of formalizing their land tenure. There is also an active community of local NGOs. The
Project regards this as a good potential and build on it to implement the upgrading city-wide in a
participatory manner. Environmentally, the city suffers from deficiency in services, particularly the shortage
of water supply. Phase I is not expected to have any adverse environmental impacts. Rather it will address
infrastructure deficiency in a socially and economically sustainable manner.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Phase I has been categorized as B because investments under Phase I are mainly small-scale
infrastructure improvements such as road pavement, secondary water and sanitation networks, and
construction of social infrastructure. Those investments would be limited in scope and are not expected to
have any adverse environmental impact. Phases II and III may include investments with more significant
environmental impacts; therefore, the environment category will be re-assessed during the appraisal of both



5
ISDS
subsequent phases.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes 0 No   0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes O No   * TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               O Yes * No   C TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   * Yes O No   C TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No   0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                * Yes O No   0 TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                0 Yes * No   O TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No    * TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Because the Program will involve large-scale construction in several cities over a nine-year period, some
expropriation of private land or displacement of individuals or economic activities may occur. As a result, OP
4. 12 on involuntary resettlement will apply. Cultural property OPN is likely to apply during Phase H of the
APL. During phase I a study will be made of relevant institutions and legislation to cultural heritage, and
appropriate provisions will be prepared.
To mitigate against potential negative impacts of the Phase I investments, an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) will be prepared prior to appraisal. The EMP will be produced in compliance with the World
Bank guidelines, as set forth in OP 4.01.
II.D. 1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No potential cumulative impacts are anticipated in Phase 1.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Long-term impacts are more positive than negative. APL's phasing approach will allow the Project to
deal with physical investments and the policy and regulatory reforms by in an integrated manner. In
addition, the Project will facilitate institutionalization of partnership between municipalities and
communities for upgrading and local economic development.  This comprehensive approach will
enhance improvement in the living conditions of the target cities and will serve as a socially and
economically sustainable model for upgrading to be used on a national scale.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N.A.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues



6
ISDS
Because the Program will involve large-scale construction in several cities over a nine-year period, some
expropriation of private land or displacement of individuals or economic activities may occur. As a
result, OP 4. 12 on involuntary resettlement will apply. Pre-appraisal mission will include social scientist
and environmental specialist with suitable qualifications for issues involved. A Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) needs to be prepared prior to the appraisal mission for inclusion in the operational
manual. RPF presents existing Iranian laws on expropriation, including compensation measures and
institutional arrangements for implementing them for the inclusion in the operational manual. During the
project implementation, once the exact project sites are known, a Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) should be
prepared which illustrates what land is to be acquired, when and how as well as the changes that would
occur in its use. LAP and Resettlement Action Plan will be prepared for each site during Phase I
implementation in case resettlement of population or economic activities is required. Cultural property
OPN is likely to apply during Phase II of the APL. During Phase I a study will be made of relevant
institutions and legislation to cultural heritage , and appropriate provisions will be prepared for inclusion
in the operational manual.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are the ultimate beneficiaries urban residence who have substandard
housing and infrastructure, those who lack security of tenure and access to housing finance.
Other important local stakeholders are municipal councils who often lack organizational
capacities and sufficient resources. A participatory approach to stakeholder consultations will
help to bridge the potential gap between popular expectations of newly elected representative
bodies, and the ability of these bodies to deliver. At the national level, key stakeholders are Mol,
MoHUD, MPO, CBI and other relevant agencies under these ministries and institutions. In
addition, the recently convened presidential committee on informal settlements has a strong
mandate to develop a policy and programs for the informal settlements. However the committee
still lacks experience and the detailed knowledge effectively to fulfill its tasks. A plan for
participation and stakeholder consultation and the national institutional level will be elaborated
during program preparation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/16/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             12/16/2002



7
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop                              12/24/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/16/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             12/16/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              12/24/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Omar M. Razzaz                              6/12/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  John Bryant Collier/Person/World Bank  6/12/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour/Person/World Bank  6/12/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                     6/12/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Hedi Larbi                                  6/12/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH .       FEEDUACK       SUIE MAP      SHOWCASE 



