Report No. PID11276
Project Name             Iran, Islamic Republic of-Low Income Housing
Region                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                   Urban Housing
Project ID               IRPE73433
Implementing Agency      (MOHUD)
Contact Person: Mr. Nasser Nikouseresht
Fax: 98-21-879-5957
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        June 11, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 15, 2003
Bank Approval Date       May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The current 3rd Five Year Development Plan (1999/0-2003/4) has given a
prominent role to the housing sector. It aims at poverty alleviation
based on empowerment through employment creation, education and health and
a more efficient and targeted social safety net for the poor. The plan
targets a reduction of poverty headcount from 15t to 7t, and includes an
ambitious generation of 765,000 jobs annually. The housing sector, as a
labor-intensive activity with extensive linkages with other sectors and as
a major user of intermediate materials is ideally placed for assuming such
role. Indeed, in the present context of high unemployment (13.8t by the
end of 2001), coupled with the need to create jobs for the baby boom
generation, housing has the potential to become one of the key engines of
growth for the Iranian economy. Thus, meeting the demand for housing can
help address the current unemployment problem in Iran and may have a
significant role to play in creating job opportunities for the young and
the unskilled and in contributing towards the reduction of regional social
imbalances.However, the high degree of centralized planning, the
institutional and regulatory environment of directed credit and the
significant involvement of the public sector in the supply of housing has
resulted in an underdeveloped housing finance sector and in a weakened
local capacity to effectively manage the fast urbanization taking place in
Iran. Significant progress has been made and a series of structural
reforms have been undertaken mainly after the fall of oil prices in
1995/6, some of which concerned the housing sector. These include the
modification of the subsidies and tax incentives schemes and the gradual
reduction of the government's role in the direct supply of housing. In
order to meet the steep employment targets set, the current plan further
commits the government to a series of fiscal and structural reforms and
sets challenging housing targets by 2003/4. The 3rd Housing Development
Plan envisages a total of about 142,060 million Rials (in 1999/0 prices)
of government and private investment in housing during the period
1999/0-2003/4. It sets out four strategic objectives to be accomplished
by 2003/4: (i) to increase the flow of long term domestic and foreign
resources for housing finance in tandem with the adoption of adequate
building technologies and the development of a professional and efficient
construction industry, (ii) to promote financing for and mass production
of small housing units adapted to the needs and affordability of



low-income and vulnerable households in urban and rural areas, (iii) to
improve the efficiency of taxation and subsidies in the housing sector and
to promote housing insurance, and (iv) to reduce government controls and
to devolve responsibilities to local authorities (Provincial agencies and
municipalities) for housing, urban land management (including government
owned land) and promotion of rental housing and housing
cooperatives.Achievement of the strategic objectives set out in the plan
will require the Government to face the challenge of developing and
establishing the right mechanisms to manage the fluctuations in the market
that would guarantee the provision (mostly by the private sector) of
housing particularly for the low-income groups. For this, several issues
must be addressed as follows:Natural ConstraintsIran is one of the most
seismically active regions of the world. Of all natural catastrophes,
earthquakes are considered to be the most destructive natural catastrophe
that could hit Iran. Destructive earthquakes occur regularly resulting in
significant economic and human losses in this country. The Iranian
territory is frequently reminded of this by occurrences of disastrous
Earthquakes such as the most recent ones, the Manjil Earthquake of 20 June
1990 (Ms=7.7), the Bojnurd Earthquake of 4 February 1997 (Ms=6.8), the
Ardebil Earthquake of 28 February 1997 (Ms=6.1), and the Ardekul
Earthquake of 10 May 1997 (Ms=7.3). In 1997 alone, earthquakes claimed
more than 2,650 lives and left more than 100,000 homeless in this region.
Earthquake risk creates an implict fiscal liability to the Government.
Government compensation packages are unlikely to be sufficient to
compensate for private loss, leading to unmet expectations by masses and
inequity in accessing relief funds. Macroeconomic ConstraintsDespite
significant progress made by the government in increasing the supply of
housing over the last ten years, the challenge today is made more
difficult by i) the still significant oil-dependency of the economy, ii)
the prospects of rising inflation in the short and medium term worsened by
the unification of the Rial, iii) the recent deterioration of income
levels, iv) the current macroeconomic instability which magnifies the
volatility of private housing output, and v) the weak fiscal base which
hinders the ability of the government to target programs and subsidies
effectively. Demand ConstraintsUnderdeveloped housing finance: Lack of
sustainable long-term funding for housing finance remains the main
limiting factor for the expansion of the sector and is the main reason for
the shortage of affordable housing and the sector's low share of GDP (5%).
Despite the priority assigned to housing in credit allocation through the
public banking system, the supply of housing loans remains small (3% of
GDP) when compared to the demand and to the ambitious objectives set by
the current development plan for affordable housing. This scarcity of
appropriate finance has resulted in i) a highly volatile private housing
market output, ii) an unbalanced output in favor of large units, iii) a
very fragmented financing into numerous small public housing programs, and
iv) an absence of financing for the purchase of existing housing units.
This shows that an underdeveloped housing finance system is also the main
constraint for the improvement of existing housing and the acquisition of
rental investments. This reduces the value of the existing stock, the
wealth of households, and the fluidity needed for an active housing market
to operate, particularly for lower-income groups. In this situation,
affordability of housing is severely reduced due to the high price to loan
ratios and the large cash payments necessary to purchase
housing.Inefficient system of housing subsidies: Preliminary estimates
suggest that housing subsidies in Iran are significant amounting to 2-4.5%
-2 -



of GDP. Taking into account utility subsidies amounting to 3t of GDP,
housing-related subsidies become excessive exceeding annual housing
investment (4.7w of GDP in 1996/7). These subsidies are: i) mostly
non-transparent and unaccounted for in any budget, ii) inefficiently
delivered, iii) regressive in the form of interest rate and energy
subsidies, and iv) provided through a highly fragmented system. As such,
their benefits accrue largely to households in higher income brackets.
Furthermore, subsidies are granted to developers, financing institutions
and buyers, leading to inefficiencies, speculation and deviation of
subsidies from their intended beneficiaries. With very few exceptions,
such as the Imam Khomeini foundation, the intended population groups are
not receiving the full benefits of government assistance. For many, such
assistance is inaccessible.Supply ConstraintsInsufficient supply of
undeveloped and serviced land: The establishment of the Urban Land
Organization (ULO) in 1982, brought under its control all land belonging
to the central Government and its agencies. As the policy pursued by this
organization until 1985 of distribution of undeveloped land to individual
households failed to address persistent housing shortages, MHUD has
initiated a new urban land development policy with the intention of
increasing substantially the availability of developable land. The focus
of the ministry's strategy concerning land management has been to provide
infrastructure for new residential areas (including the development of
new/satellite towns), and to supply developed land to individuals,
construction companies and developers. Although approximately 400,000
hectares were expropriated along the urban periphery, a relatively small
portion of this land has been developed and/or distributed. Most of the
land remains un-serviced and un-titled. Withholding such significant
amounts of land, stifles private sector contribution to urban development
and seriously restricts the efficient operation of land
markets.Constrained private sector construction: Public or quasi-public
sector construction companies effectively control a large segment of the
construction sector. They dominate low-cost mass housing construction
where demand originates generally from government supported or financed
projects. Their privileged access to financing and land places the private
companies at a competitive disadvantage further deterring them from
entering the unprofitable low segments of the market and confining them to
the provision of upper middle and high income housing. The activities of
private construction companies and entry into the sector are therefore
seriously constrained by the lack of adequate and timely access to
financing and land, and to a lesser extent equipment and materials. In
particular, i) construction financing is highly regulated and covers only
20 to 309 of construction cost, ii) due to limited finance and inadequate
regulations and incentives, the private equipment-leasing industry is
small and it is dominated by two inefficient quasi-public companies, and
iii) periodic shortages in the public production of critical commodities
for housing such as cement and steel often translates into higher prices
than official. Although laws and regulations do not appear to inhibit
private firm entry into the construction sector, excessive building
regulations and frequent amendments to them may add up to as much as 5
tolO- of construction cost.   Rigid Urban planning and management: Urban
planning in Iran is directive and hierarchical in terms of both coverage
and nature. The constraints created by the rigidity of urban plans and
legal zoning has resulted in a proliferation of informal settlements in
and around major cities. In response, the Government has started the
rehabilitation of these under-serviced neighborhoods as part of a
-3 -



comprehensive review of current urban planning and management process.
Several pilot site initiatives have been undertaken during the past five
years and studies are currently being carried out on simplifying and
adapt ting the regulatory framework governing urban planning and
management in line with the ongoing decentralization reforms. Overall, it
is envisaged that local authorities and other stakeholders will ultimately
be empowered to make decisions on planning, budgeting, execution and
management of city policy in line with national development plans and
policy guidelines. In addition, the Urban Development and Rehabilitation
Organization (UDRO), created in 1996, has undertaken several upgrading and
cultural heritage preservation projects in urban areas. Given the extent
and magnitude of under-serviced settlements in the country there is
considerable need for introducing best practice experience, capacity
building to national and local authorities, and prioritized
intervention.Institutional ConstraintsLack of empowerment and engagement
of local government: Although article 7 of the Constitution assigns major
roles in the governance structure to elected councils, it was only until
the 3rd development plan assigned a high priority to decentralization that
actions conducive to it where undertaken. The first local elections which
took place in 1999 resulted in the election of some 164,000 officials
confirming the transformation of municipalities into autonomous entities
which report to their respective city councils. A decentralization draft
law, which is expected to be enacted by Parliament soon, will reinforce
the roles and responsibilities of the city councils and will also create
elected regional councils and inter-communal councils. In doing so, it
will formalize the role and participation of civic society in governance,
as well as the transfer of certain government functions to local
government through the allocations of the corresponding budgetary
resources. Responsibilities for land management, maintenance of cultural
heritage housing and urban development (including upgrading) are being
considered for transfer to local authorities. This devolution of
responsibilities will require, among other things, considerable training
and institutional capacity building at the local level.Fragmentation of
policy decision-making and of responsibilities: Numerous government
institutions and organizations are involved with housing and urban policy
setting and implementation. The MHUD must deal not only with other
central government bodies but also with six affiliated organizations, the
Housing Foundation and the Housing Bank. This has resulted in multiple
and disjointed housing programs, making difficult the development of a
coherent and well coordinated housing sector policy. Consequently, housing
markets in Iran are highly heterogeneous; precise knowledge of real
housing needs is lacking (despite the wealth of housing information
available); and access to subsidies has less to do with income than with
location/ employment affiliation.Limited earthquake mitigation/ insurance
capacity: Due to the construction practice as well as deficiencies of
regular engineering inspections, it is expected that building performance
would be similar to that of the Turkish buildings during the Izmit
Earthquake. The impact of a future possible large earthquake on the city
of Tehran may have disastrous economic, social and political effects on
the country. Collapse of residential buildings will be the most dominant
cause of human casualty as well as economic loss. According to EQECAT, a
premier international earthquake risk modeling consultancy, the proximity
of the city to active seismic sources, poor building quality and the
geological condition of the city, could result in a massive loss of life
and economic losses of over US$10 billion in case of a large size event.
- 4 -



It is obvious that should such a disaster occur, the Iranian Government
will find it very difficult to finance the reconstruction of destroyed
dwellings and humanitarian assistance to the affected population. While in
the past, the government relied on state-owned banks to provide interest
free loans to the affected homeowners, this practice may not be
sustainable in case of a large catastrophic event as it would have severe
implications for the Iranian banking system. The insurance industry is
extremely small and all companies are state owned, employing a total of
4,000 people in the companies and a lesser number in agencies and broking
companies. Although there are no official statistics on the capitalization
of the industry, it is perceived to be rather insignificant. All the
Iranian insurance companies have the same net retention of $750,000. The
minimum capital requirement for all types of insurance companies is
$33,300, of which 50 percent must be fully paid. Such a low capitalization
of the insurance industry and an extremely high rate of risk retention of
96.11 percent by Bimeh Markazi, a domestic reinsurer, makes the industry
financially unstable and highly vulnerable to potential catastrophic
events.
2. Objectives
The main objectives of the proposed program are to support the
Government's effort in the housing sector in (a) providing affordable
housing to low to moderate income households; and (b) further developing
the market institutions of the housing sector (insurance, finance,
construction, real estate). These objectives will be realized in three
phases: A first phase focusing on housing sector reforms and priority
interventions to improve living conditions of the poor in under-serviced
settlements in three cities; a second phase focusing on increasing long
term resource mobilization for housing finance and city wide upgrading in
the urban centers of three cities; and a third phase focusing on deepening
the impact of the housing sector reforms and up-scaling upgrading programs
countrywide. The exact phasing of the APL and the triggers for the
different phases will be discussed during project preparation and reviewed
at pre-appraisal.Specifically, phase I will focus on:i) piloting
improvements in housing conditions in some of the poorest urban areas in
Iran; ii) reducing household vulnerability to earthquake risk; and iii)
setting a strategy for housing policy reform (finance, subsidies,
construction, land markets, and urban management). Phase II will launch
the implementation of the strategy for housing policy reform developed and
adopted in phase I. It will focus on: i) deepening of the housing
finance sector (reducing credit rationing, deregulation, capital markets,
secondary markets); ii) streamlining housing subsidy policy; and iii)
improving livability in run down urban centers of historic cities. Phase
III will scale up programs introduced in phases I and II. It will focus
on: i) designing and funding a national fund for slum upgrading; ii)
developing a national program for capacity building for municipalities in
a decentralized context; and providing technical assistance on further
policy reforms to be determined in phase II.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has accumulated best international practices in supporting
housing and urban development, particularly through the integration of
sector reforms and investments in infrastructure. Throughout the MNA
Region, the Bank has assisted borrowers on housing finance (Jordan, WBG,
Algeria, Egypt), slum upgrading (Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Jordan),
- 5-



earthquake mitigation and insurance (Turkey). The Bank also has
considerable experience to share from high inflation economies in Latin
America and highly administered housing sectors in the Former Soviet Union
and East Asia. In recent years, the Bank has been also renewing and
strengthening its involvement in Iran through several on-going lending and
grant operations in sectors such as banking regulation, sewerage and
primary health care. The team will coordinate closely with other on-going
Bank-financed projects and those financed by other donors to ensure
coherence and integrity in supporting the sector reforms.
4. Description
Phase I of the proposed Program would have three components: Comopnent A.
Upgrading, services, and capacity building of targeted cities;Component B.
Earthquake insurance and mitigation scheme; and, Component C. Technical
assistance on housing sector reform and project management.Component A
(US$68 million):    Upgrading, services, and capacity building of targeted
cities: A.1 Upgrading poor neighborhoods (US$25 million): Investment in
infrastructure networks to improve access to basic services in poor urban
settlements in selected cities. Selection criteria will be developed
during the project preparation but it will be mainly determined through
the level of poverty, deficiency in basic services and needs for social
inclusion. The component is proposed to include both on-site improvement
and off-site land development (see A3). A.2 Small infrastructure in
support of employment generation (US$15 million): To address the social
needs of the population particularly women and youth, in parallel with the
above upgrading sub-component, small social infrastructure are proposed to
support income and employment generation activities at the settlement
level.    A.3  Trunk infrastructure for guided land development for
low-income housing (US$25 million): Off-site development is regarded as an
extension of the currently expanding informal settlements in the
peri-urban area to facilitate guided development in place of uncontrolled
sprawl (this component will possibly be incorporated in the current water
project under preparation). A.4     TA for city management capacity
building (US$3 million): TA is geared to support capacity development of
staff at the provincial and municipal levels on city/urban management to
improve capacity in prioritizing of needs, planning, budgeting,
implementation and monitoring local-level investments. A
participatory/enabling approach will be integrated in the TA.
Component B (US$62 million):     Earthquake insurance and mitigation
scheme:B.1 TA and business feasibility studies (US$ 5 million) This
includes studies, technical advisory services and acquisition of
equipments including: (i) vulnerability assessments of Iranian housing
stock, (ii) study to determine rates for earthquake insurance coverage in
different parts of the country and preparation of GIS based hazard maps;
(iii) modeling of the National Catastrophe Insurance Pool (NCIP) risk
exposures and capitalization requirements; (iv) preparation of operational
guidelines and NCIP business plan; (v) public information campaign; (vi)
training for the NCIP staff; and, (vii) acquisition of IT systems for the
NCIP.     B.2   Reinsurance premium (US$25 million) This subcomponent will
finance the costs of the NCIP's first year reinsurance program. In the
first several years of the ICIP's operation, its claims paying capacity
will rely mainly on international reinsurance. The reinsurance industry
requires reinsurance premiums to be paid up front at a time of the
reinsurance placement. As the pool's surplus quickly builds up (in the
absence of large earthquakes), it is expected that the NCIP would be able
- 6 -



to cover the costs of reinsurance premium in the second year of its
operations.    B.3   Contingent capital facility (US$ 30 million) The
proposed contingent capital facility will support the NCIP's claim paying
capability. The facility will be made available to NCIP by the Government
under a special sub-loan agreement and could be called only to pay claims
according to the pre-agreed terms.    B.4  Support for the BHRC for
development and dissemination of technology (US$5 million) : This TA
provides technical advisory service, institutional strengthening so that
the BHRD can develop affordable earthquake-resistant construction
technology and effectively disseminate on a national-scale. Component C
(US$10 million): Technical assistance on housing sector reform C.1 TA on
housing finance reform and business study for secondary mortgage (US$3
million):This is geared to support reforms to reduce credit rationing;
Housing Bank targeted reforms; improved access to the capital market; and
development of secondary mortgage market. C.2 TA on subsidies reform
(US$1 million) : This TA is geared to developing a transitional plan to
develop better targeted and direct subsidies in the housing sector. It
will support preparation of pilot reforms to be implemented in Phase II.
C.3 TA on a real estate observatory (US$1 million) : TA to assist the
design and implement housing policy support systems.        C.4 Long term
and short term TA to NHC, UDRO, MHUD, MPO, and CBI on program
implementation (US$5 million): Institutional strengthening and capacity
development of staff in the above agencies to be equipped with necessary
skills and knowledge to implement Phase I and replicate the program at the
national level in Phase II and III.
A. Upgrading, services, and capacity building of targeted cities:
A.1 Upgrading poor neighborhoods
A.2 Small infrastructure in support of employment generation
A.3 Trunk infrastructure for land development
A.4 TA for city management capacity building
B. Earthquake insurance and mitigation scheme:
B.1 TA and business feasibility studies
B.2 Reinsurance premium
B.4 Support for the (BHRC) for development and dissemination of technology
C. TA on housing sector reform
C.1 TA on housing finance reform and business study for secondary mortgage
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $28.00
IBRD                     $112.00
IDA
Total Project Cost       $140.00
6. Implementation
Before appraisal, GOI will prepare a draft Program Implementation Plan,
spelling out the detailed institutional and implementation arrangements.
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD): The Minister of Housing
and Urban development would be responsible for the overall execution and
coordination of the program. Two organizations within the MHUD umbrella:
the National Land and Housing Organization (NLHO) and the Urban
Development and Rehabilitation Organization (UDRO) will be directly
involved in program execution. NLHO, represented by the Director of
National Habitat Committee (NHC), will be responsible for overall program
management. UDRO will be responsible for the technical coordinating of
- 7 -



component A directly with the targeted cities. Given its experience with
neighborhood development and upgrading, UDRO will provide technical
assistance to targeted cities through its own staff and hired
consultants.National Coordination Committee (NCC):     NCC would be Chaired
by the Minister of Housing and Urban Development. Members of the NCC
would include representatives of ministries and agencies concerned such as
Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Planning
and Management Organization, the High Commission for Architecture and
Urban Development, Urban Development and Rehabilitation Organization
(UDRO). The NCC would be responsible for providing guidance to the reform
strategy and coordinating the implementation of the proposed action plan.
This committee will meet quarterly to review progress and remove
impediments to timely program implementation. NHC Director will serve as
the secretariat for NCC.Local Coordinating Committee (LCC): A number of
cities have already formed LCCs to coordinate neighborhood upgrading and
delivery of services. They include representatives from 25 different
national and local authorities, CBOs and NGOsMinistry of Finance and
Economic Affairs (MOFEA): MOFEA regulates the insurance industry,
including the national reinsurer, Bimeh Markazi; four composit insurers
(Bimeh Iran, Bimeh Asia, Bimeh Alborz, and Bimeh Dana) and one specialist
credit insurer. MOFEA will be responsible for the implementation of the
earthquake insurance component.The Central Bank of Iran(CBI): CBI will be
responsible for implementing the TA components related to housing finance
reform. Implementing agencies.MHUD will be the executing agency of the
program. NHC will be the implementing agency of the program. NHC is a
lean agency with a Director and two support staff. NHC relies on local
consultants, many of whom are short term experts for developing
newsletters, reports, and sector studies. NHC has hired a part time
accountant and procurement specialist to assist with program preparation
under the PHRD. These positions are expected to continue through program
implementation. While NHC will manage the Special Account, procurement of
works, goods, and services will be carried out by municipalities with
technical assistance from NHC on procurement methods, and UDRO on
technical assessment. Technical assistance on housing finance reform will
be implemented by CBI. The earthquake insurance component will be
implemented by the MOFEA which regulates the insurance industry. NHC will
coordinate the hiring of three full-time program managers (one placed with
CBI, one with UDRO, and one with MOFEA), a procurement specialist, and an
accountant. Short term engineers, environmental specialists, and
community development specialist would also be hired. UDRO will liaise
with local governments (provincial and municipal) and other participating
agencies for implementation.     Participating Municipalities would be
implementing the infrastructure component, (with authority to sign
contracts and authorize payments under technical supervision of UDRO and
overall clearance by the NHC). They will be supported by contract
technical staff to strengthen their technical and financial management
capacities as appropriate.Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and local
NGOs. They will play a major role in the design and implementation of
community social infrastructure, the provision of urban environmental
services, and the delivery of targeted interventions in under-serviced
neighborhoods. Particularly CBOs, supported by the local NGOs will take
the lead role in the preparation and implementation processes through
organizing beneficiary residents, ensuring their participation and
assisting the monitoring of the program implementation. By pre-appraisal,
the institutional arrangements for program coordination and implementation
- 8 -



will be finalized, including the definition of needed technical assistance.
7. Sustainability
The benefits of the program are expected to be sustainable due to the
strong emphasis on sequencing of reforms, capacity building, and
institutional development in the program. There is also clear commitment
by important stakeholders at the national and local governments' level and
considerable participation of communities and other stakeholders in the
design of the program at all stages. The housing sector reform will
reduce the budgetary burden of the government as more of the housing
supply will be provided by private sector and without need for subsidy. As
for the upgrading part of the Program, the GOI is strongly supportive of
an enabling approach through participation in the form of beneficiary
contributions and avoiding a perception of "gift" to identified cities. In
line with the establishment of a cost-recovery mechanism for
infrastructure investments, modalities of tenure regularization will be
sought during the Program preparation. This will lead to the increase of
property value and be an incentive for people to contribute financially.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project Management Capacity: The common lessons in the past Bank-financed
projects concerns the readiness of the borrower for implementation. It is
important to ensure adequate capacity to be built for carrying out
procurement and disbursement.    In the program preparation, through the
implementation of PHRD grant, intensive advisory support on the Bank's
procedures are being provided. The Bank will organize seminar on
procurement and disbursement during the Program's launch, paying
particular attention to the training needs of program implementation teams
at the municipal level.            Involvement of all stakeholders: MOI,
MPO, and CBI are the key stakeholders in municipal management, budget
allocation, and banking regulation. It is crucial that important
stakeholders be fully involved in the program preparation to ensure full
commitment and later cooperation. The program team has initiated contacts
with the above during the program identification and it intends to closely
coordinate with them during the program preparation. This is also
important in view of securing availability of counterpart financing.
Drawing on best practices: The World Bank/IFC team which had developed
the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP) is the same team working on
the Iranian earthquake insurance scheme. This ensures that team can take
stock of all lessons learned in designing and implementing the Turkey
project.Citywide strategy for capacity building: Projects which tend to
focus on surgically upgrading an neighborhood in the absence of a citywide
strategy for capacity building are not likely to be sustainable. The
program focuses on training and capacity building of city officials and
takes a citywide approach to upgrading which addresses future supply of
affordable developed land as well as rehab of existing neighborhoods.
Addressing both supply and demand side constraints of the housing sector:
Past experience has shown that Bank financed housing projects contribute
mostly to institutional development and sustainability when they
explicitly identify supply and demand constraints in the sector and adopt
a strategic approach for reform.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
-9-



Issues         No significant environmental issues are anticipated
at this point. This will be looked into in more detail at pre-appraisal.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Omar M. Razzaz
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-4789
Fax: 202-477-1993
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
July 14, 2002.
- 10 -



