RP182
October 2003
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Program
Annex 12:      Resettlement Policy Framework
1)     Introduction
Housing is one of the basic requirements of human being. A house is a place for refreshment, leisure, as well as
for transfer of social values, norms and relations. When population growth or immigration to big cities is
uncontrolled and regardless of the socioeconomic infrastructures and advanced planning, or when there are
shortcomings in the government policies and the official housing market, supplying housing becomes one of the
major problems for urban life. The massive migration of the poor and unskilled immigrants to big cities and
lack of their employment in the official economy of the city make the local governments in the developing
nations unable to meet the housing demands of the ever-growing population. Therefore, construction and
housing becomes uncontrolled and unauthorized, and based on unofficial strategies. In such a situation, the low
income families build primitive and low-cost houses by adhering to such methods as buying cheap parcels of
land in the city or in the suburbs or possessing them illegally and starting construction irrespective of the urban
development rules and regulations and construction permits. As a result, in the majority of the big and medium
cities in the developing nations' communities come to being this way and are called urban sprawl, hut-dwelling,
hovelling or other forms of uncommon humble dwelling. Since these settlements have come to being without
urban planning regulations, or urban topography and architecture, they are facing many problems such as wrong
site selection, lack of appropriate access to public services, and lack of anticipations for educational, cultural,
security, and safety centers. Part of the unofficial settlements built on the illegally possessed lands may be
inappropriate for living and business for ecological and security reasons and the life of the settlers may be in
danger. Also from social and cultural viewpoints assembling of low income families in a specific geographical
location will bring about 'social isolation' and repetition of the cycle of poverty and reduced social capital.
These settlements slow the process of democratic and shared strategies and make it impossible for the
government to realize the urban development programs. The unauthorized settlement is not confined to a
number of the cities and its expansion in the majority of the developing cities shows that the problem arises
from economic, political and social structures. Therefore, the solutions might be sought in policymaking,
planning and performance in national, regional and local levels in the form of a coordinated and interrelated
system among the governmental, private and public sectors.
The Islamic Republic of Iran, as an Islamic democratic government, in its Constitution asserts on providing
appropriate housing for every Iranian individual. The Constitution necessitates the government to plan for and
realize housing individuals. Clause 12, Article 3 of the Islamic Republic of Iran Constitution necessitates the
government to institute a sound and fair economy according to the Islamic regulations and code of law for
providing welfare facilities, alleviating poverty and eradicating any type of deprivation in terms of nutrition,
housing, ... In Article 22 of the Constitution the houses of the individuals are immune against any trespass
unless prescribed by law. According to Article 31, any Iranian nationality and his family deserve the right to
have a house they need to live in and the government has been obligated to provide housing for the people
giving priority to the most needy. Providing housing for all, as an essential demand, is one of the regulations
that Article 43 of the Constitution has based Islamic Republic economy on it.
Obstacles to construction, inefficient housing policies and lack of housing services for the urban low income
families, coupled with unexpected disasters such as war and natural disasters have given birth to unauthorized
settlement and helped its development in the suburbs of the cities. Continuation of this process will result in
serious hazards such as deterioration of the socioeconomic, structural and environmental abnormalities in the
cities of the country. Therefore, formulating a practical program for alleviating, resettlement and preventing
expansion of unauthorized settlement in the future is direly needed.
Presently, as part of an essential measure the "National Document on Enabling and Regularizing Unauthorized
Settlements" has been provided and approved by both ministries involved in urban development (Ministry of
Housing and Urban Development, Interior Ministry). The objectives of the bill, that is expected to be


﻿considered valid in all policymaking procedures and planning related to unauthorized settlement, are the
following:
(a)- Paving the ground for promotion of environmental conditions in a sustainable and comprehensive way for
the health, security, hope, faith and human reverence in the existing unauthorized settlements
(b)- Foreseeing expansion of unauthorized settlements in future, thus paving the ground for construction of
appropriate housing, provision of basic services and infrastructures as far as possible and access to low income
groups in the official environment of the city
(c)- Paving the ground for enjoyment of urban advantages and deepening the urban culture for the people in
these settlements along with their all-out participation in decision-making processes and local activities
To control problems arising from uncontrolled urban development, the Islamic Republic Government has put
implementation of the "Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project" on its agenda. The overall purpose of
the proposed Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Program (UUHRP) is to facilitate the transition to a
market-led housing sector, while improving current housing conditions and future access to affordable housing,
for low and moderate income households.
The project will be implemented in three stages for a whole period of 12 years. The second and third stages will
be implemented after realization of some specific components of the first stage. The first stage of the project
includes (a) instigating a countrywide program of community enabling and city-wide substandard settlement
upgrading. Activities during this phase will be limited to piloting the program in up to 5 cities and creating an
enabling and upgrading fund to upscale the program and sustain it and; (b) setting and adopting a strategy for
housing policy reform (housing finance, subsidies, construction land markets and urban management). The
second stage includes (a) validating the approaches, consolidating the institutional set up , and creating a
funding mechanism for sustaining the enabling and upgrading activities and extending the program to all
provincial capitals; and (b) launching the implementation of the housing sector reforms as per the action plans
adopted during phase I. The third stage will include the following (a) moving from upgrading to the more
complex problems of the revitalization of run down downtown areas, the preservation of historic sites and
cultural heritage, and the extension of cities, (b) the gradual evolution of the enabling and upgrading fund to
cover lending for the extension of urban infrastructure, (c) building municipal capacities in a decentralized
context. As for the housing reforms this phase will built on the foundations laid during the previous phases to;
(a) increase the amount of long term resources for housing finance channeled through the financial markets, (b)
diversify the housing products and housing finance products available to moderate to low income households
and (c) further increase the private contribution to the production of housing and housing related infrastructure.
The UUHRP does not undertake funding sideline projects that require involuntary resettlement or possession of
land in the vicinity of the protected areas or in the areas under archeological surveys.
There is an emphasis on the project on avoiding involuntary resettlement. In the planning phase, there will be
absolutely no land accession and/or involuntary resettlement. Since implementation of the project (post-
planning phases) may need in some instances, possession of land and involuntary resettlement of the people
involved, there is a need to formulate an Involuntary Resettlement Framework according to the rules and
regulations of the Islamic Republic government and the banking operation policies on resettlement (OP 4.12) as
well as its annexes. This framework should include rules and guidelines for resettlement in these projects and
designing and implementing the projects according to the framework.
Presentation of Subject:
Cities, especially metropolises, are centers with more opportunities for socioeconomic development as
compared with the other forms of settlement. Although this ideal image of cities might not be conforming to
reality in some cases, its attraction has kept steady the process of immigration to these cities. The phenomenon,
began in 1940s in Iran has been on the rise ever since 1970s. During this period, hundreds of poor families
formed part of the lengthy and steady process of migration from the villages and small cities to the big cities.
Many of them settled individually or with their families and relatives in the urban unusable lands or in the cheap
lands they bought in the suburbs. The process grew sharp after the cease-fire in closing years of 1980s and
resulted in further urban sprawl. The increasing number of immigrating people and the natural growth of the
2


﻿city population have disabled the housing planning officials to find a solution to the housing of the newly
migrated people and the poor in the cities. According to estimations, one-eighth of the urban population of the
country, i.e. almost 4.5 million people live in unauthorized settlements and many large cities such as Tehran,
Mashhad, Kermanshah, Ahvaz, Bandar Abbas and Zahedan are facing the phenomenon of unauthorized
settlements.
These regions, chiefly in the form of isolated social bodies, are facing various problems such as socioeconomic,
structural and environmental abnormalities due to their mushrooming and uncontrolled growth, thus sorely need
improvisation of living atmosphere. The unauthorized regions are characterized by the following:
-Little or no anticipations for service centers and access ways due to hurried housing construction irrespective
of official urban development programs
-Structural isolation from the mother city and being the residence of poor and low-income families
-Lack of sufficient social security that makes them to be the hub of criminal and lawbreaking acts
-No contribution to urban development projects, especially to the municipal services
-Settlement in the areas subject to such dangers as flood and earthquake
Definition and implementation of development projects in these areas may necessitate complete or partial
resettlement of some individuals .
Studies carried out for formulation of Involuntary Resettlement Framework showed that Iranian laws and
administrative regulations lacked rules or ratification under "involuntary resettlement". Instead there are plenty
of rules and regulations on lands, properties, real estate, urbanization and the like. The majority of these ratified
acts consider duties, restrictions, or obligations for the landowners and beneficiaries, and in some cases in line
with transferring lands, real estate and their rights to the government and municipalities. At the same time, when
the government and municipalities need possession of lands, real estates or rights of the beneficiaries for
implementation of development, military and public projects, they are obligated to pay the fair market price of
the land and associated rights such as the right of business, right of farming, right of long period of tenancy and
the like. If the possessed land is a place of living or a means of earning a living, there will be extra
compensation in addition to the fair market price of the land that should be - if possible - paid or met by
offering land in substitute to gain the owner's satisfaction. In order to prevent misuse, the price of the land is
assessed without inclusion of the impact of the development plan on the land price. Also according to the "Law
on Amendment of Article 70 of Direct Taxation Act", any fund paid to the owners or beneficiaries for
possession of their lands or rights in the framework of the development projects will be exempted from transfer
taxes. Even in cases when the possessors lack official deeds of ownership or when their rights and possessions
are not based on legal contracts, there are lenient rules and regulations for these people who are among the low
income families that give them another opportunity for obtaining official ownership deeds according to the
amendments made to the Articles 127 and 148 of the Deeds and Properties Registration Act. Of the first
advantages of the official deeds, we can refer to commitments by the government and municipalities for
supplying civil services, water, power, gas, telephone, streets, asphalt, solid-waste disposal, control of ground
waters, fire fighting, and the like. In cases where implementation of renovation, redevelopment, reconstruction
and urban development, and accordingly involuntary resettlement is inevitable, the executive bodies are
obligated to pay the fair market price of the lands and compensations for the damages incurred on these people.
A legal approach to the issue of ownership shows that presently the legislator is considering paying indemnities
for the damages resulting from possession of lands and properties and paying the associated rights. Therefore,
relocation of the individuals and their fates after possession of their lands and properties are not clear in the
current laws. Further, the indemnities will be payable only when the proprietary or possession rights of the
individuals is recognized officially and if. some people fail to prove their ownership on land or property, they
will have no right to claim for the compensation from the possessing organization. Therefore, thousands of
people who have possessed parcels of land illegally will face problems in implementation of development
projects that need involuntary resettlement. People possessing land and committing unauthorized construction
are considered offenders who must be prosecuted. It is legally, therefore, possible to confiscate and destroy the
The legal framework as well as executive instructions for land possession is provided in Appendix 1.


﻿settlements of these people, but due to the resistance of the settlers against destruction of their places of living
or business, limited number of organizations tend to take the risk. Coming to agreement with the individuals for
implementation of government and municipal projects is a must. Therefore, despite the silence of law, the
public and governmental organizations usually advance their programs for possession and occupation of land by
such methods as presenting facilities for construction, technical assistance and making use of the public
demands at the less developed regions or in urban areas to official recognition. Revering human rights of the
individuals, especially after the formation of Islamic councils in the cities has been on the rise in the cities and
this development has brought about carrying out joint projects and empowering the municipalities. Despite all
these, there is still no certain and formulated framework for way of dealing with the unauthorized settlements
and involuntary resettlement. The scope of problem necessitates formulation of a policy on way of realizing
involuntary resettlements in the country with an emphasis on meeting human rights, fair payment of the
indemnities and boosting standards of living of the poor in the cities. In the absence of comprehensive studies
on identifying all the areas in which UUHRP could be implemented in Iran, it is impossible presently to
evaluate the total number of the individuals who ought to be relocated as a result of implementation of
development projects, and to assess the resettlement costs. The said policy should define a number of projects
for various phases of the program. Should these projects necessitate involuntary resettlement or land
possession, brief or comprehensive resettlement plans would be drafted depending on the number of individuals
affected. Field studies would precede such projects in order to determine the exact number of people affected as
well as the related damages.
3)      Objectives
Involuntary Resettlement Framework, in line with the preferences of the Constitution and the "National
Document on Enabling and Regularizing Unauthorized Settlement", that places special emphasis on respecting
human reverence and dignity, assuring his rights and providing facilities for realization of self-reliance of the
poor, follows the following goals:
-Observing dignity, reverence, as well as material and spiritual rights of the individuals in implementing
involuntary resettlement and compensating for the damages incurred on them at fair market price for recovering
or improving their standards of living in comparison with the period before resettlement
-Carrying out planned resettlement and considering institutional, social, economic and environmental stability
-Creating self-reliance and empowering the individuals affected by recovery and improving standard of living
with centrality on housing and employment
-Assuring rights of individuals for litigation in cases of objection and complaints by virtue of Article 34 of the
Constitution
-Planning for, implementing and supervising implementation of resettlement programs based on participation of
the settlers and using social and human capitals arising from the local assemblies
-Supporting the needy and vulnerable individuals
4)      Guidelines
The following guidelines will govern implementation of any resettlement plan in the UUHRP:
One - In line with implementation of development projects the priority will be with avoiding resettlement and
the implementing organization (Municipality 2) is obligated to adhere to related rules and regulations such as
"Government Bill on Way of Buying and Possessing Lands and Properties for Implementation of Public,
Development and Military Projects" passed on Feb. 6, 1980 and "Law on Way of Evaluating Buildings, Lands
and Real Estate Required by the Municipalities" passed on November 19, 1991, to supply required land for the
projects from among the parcels of land belonging to the government such as wastelands, nationalized lands or
the lands without buildings located in the domain of the project. (Please refer to Appendix 1 on legal issues)
2 In most cases, the implementing organization is the local Municipality, unless a different entity is defined in the plan.
4


﻿Two -In development projects where it is impossible to provide required lands from the governmental lands or
when minimum possession and resettlement are required in urgent projects such as widening the streets, any
resettlement could only be envisaged if and when the required financial means for resettlement are secured.
Three - For resettlement, the executive organization must make the plan for resettlement first and have it
approved by the highest administrative official in the region. When the number of persons to be resettled is
below a certain limit defined by the implementing agency, a brief resettlement plan will be developed and when
the number goes beyond the mentioned limit, a comprehensive resettlement plan will be formulated. The
regulations for development of these plans will be brought next.
Four - The need for settlement and security of tenure for the individuals included in the resettlement plan is
recognized officially and any destruction and evacuation by force without any negotiation with the settlers on
way of offering substitute land for settlement are avoided.
Five - In any instance of resettlement, the material and non-material capitals of the persons involved must be
protected and in the case of destruction or relocation, their rights must be duly and fairly indemnified. These
capitals are the following:
Material capitals including assets, income sources and the associated rights that can be assessable at the
national currency.
Social capitals including local institutions and social networks conforming to the social norms that cause
formation of social trust and inter-group relations among the members and a reduction in the operating
costs.
Cultural capital including elements of social and cultural identity that are distinctive of social groups from
one another and are respected by the majority of group members equally.
Human capital includes the sciences, skills and specialties the individuals own and can turn into potential or
practical material capitals by them.
Six - The fair price of the lands, buildings, superstructure, installations and other rights and damages incurred
will be determined - as far as possible - through agreement between the executive organization and the
beneficiaries. In case of disagreement, the fair price will be determined by a board of three experts (one
introduced by the executive organization, one by the owner and the third one a mutually agreed expert). If either
of the parties abstains from introducing the exclusive expert or the mutually agreed one, the local court is
authorized to name an expert within 15 days. Observing the following is necessary in possession of lands and
properties:
-If the property is the place of living or business of the owner, in addition to the fair price of the land, 15 percent
more will be added to the price.
-If the land is agricultural and the farmers have the right of tillage and cultivation in it, their rights will be
payable out of the land price.
-If the property was a place of business a year before notification of the plan, the right of business will be
payable to the beneficiary.
-Upon satisfaction of the owner, the similar substitute land or property from national or state-run parcels of land
belonging to the executive body will be transferred to the owner. Also at the consent of the beneficiary the
executive body can present a place of business in the same locality to the beneficiary instead of paying the right
of business in cash.
-The criteria for pricing land is the fair market price of similar lands, buildings and installations and the rights
and damages incurred in the same locality without considering the impact of the plan in their prices.
-Possession of lands, buildings, and installations and dispossessing the owner or the beneficiary before
transaction and paying the price of land or meeting the rights is not authorized, except in cases obstacles arise to
final transaction such as abstention of the owner from transaction, dispute in ownership, anonymity of the
owners, mortgage or attachment of land, death of owner, disagreement among the heir, etc. In this case after
issuing warnings according to the legal procedures, the price of the land will be deposited - after expert
appraisal - to the registration fund and the local attorney will sign the deeds then the dispossession will be valid
within a month. Then the price of land or the indemnity for the damages approved in the authorized sources will
be paid to the beneficiary by the registration department and the previous deeds will be either reformed or
nullified and the surplus will be refunded to the treasury. The local Deeds and Properties Registration Office is
5


﻿obligated to issue new deeds of ownership based on the deeds of transfer signed by the local attorney or his
representative including the size of land, buildings and installations, in the name of the possessing executive
body.
If the emergency of the plan is approved at sound reasons by the highest administrative official in the region, so
that any delay in implementation of the plan might lay irreplaceable damages and losses, the executive
organization can possess the land and implement the plan before final transaction and at formulating minutes of
the land in the presence of the owner or in the presence of his representative, a representative of the local
attorney and the official experts. However, the organization is obligated to, maximum within three months after
possession, pay the fair price of the land to the owner, otherwise the owner can refer to a competent court and
appeal for interruption of construction operations until he receives his money. The courts are obligated to verify
the appeal out of turn and issue the related verdict. Resumption of construction activities immediately after
payment of the fair price of land to the owner will be legally alright.
Seven - Supporting the access to an appropriate and safe house with essential services and infrastructures for
the resettled individuals by the executive organization is guaranteed.
5)      Necessary Steps for Resettlement:
According to the guide rules the executive organization must observe the following for implementing the
involuntary resettlement project:
A)      Identifying Individuals and Formulating the Resettlement Plan:
5-1- Carrying out surveys for listing the existing status and identifying individuals, lands and properties affected
by involuntary resettlement located in the domain of the development plans in an effort to formulate the plan for
involuntary resettlement and prevent interference and misuses of the profiteers;
5-2- The major elements of the survey shall be the following:
-Determining socioeconomic specifications of the families including size of the family, status and type of
employment, level of income raised by formal and informal economic activities, standard of living
-Determining volume of probable partial, major or total damages incurred
-Expression of the requests and views of the individuals on resettlement
-Determining the state of ownership and type of application
In completing the survey data the information available at the official organizations such as Deed and Properties
Registration Department and Urban Land Organization must be used.
5-3- Since implementation of development projects in an unauthorized settlement region might be alluring for
the rush of the profiteers which may aggravate the situation, the survey must be carried out within a certain time
limit, not exceeding a month.
5-4- Only people identified in the surveys, whose data is at the disposal of the executive organization, will
receive indemnities and supports.
5-5- As far as implementation of the project is not certain for financial and administrative reasons, the survey
data and the names of people selected to receive the indemnities will remain confidential.
5-6- Preparing the plan for involuntary resettlement
The executive organization is obligated to formulate the resettlement plan in cooperation with the World Bank
and by employing a qualified consulting engineer. The plan will be formulated in two forms of comprehensive
and brief plans, with respect to the regulations mentioned earlier in connection with the number of the people to
be resettled.
A-1)    Comprehensive Resettlement Plan:
6


﻿This plan includes the following:
-Description of the objectives behind resettlement
-Description of socioeconomic status of the people affected by resettlement process
-Evaluation of economic and financial impact of resettlement and its damages to people
-Description of the sites considered for settlement of the relocated individuals, estimating time for land
preparation, existing condition of the land, present application of land (commercial, residential, etc.), and its
legal status in terms of ownership
-Description of programs for improving standards of living of the individuals
-Description of programs for way of presenting social services and developing the living environment
-Presenting timetable for resettlement operations
-Evaluating resettlement costs
-Description of the strategies for participation of the individuals in planning and implementation of resettlement
programs
-Description of social networks, local institutions and NGOs existing in the locality
-Listing rules and regulations to be used in resettlement process
-Explaining about differences and gaps existing between the laws in Iran and the resettlement policies of the
World Bank, strategies for settling differences and filling the gaps
-Identifying the organizations in charge of resettlement operations and the NGOs that can play a role in the
resettlement process
-Evaluating the capacities of the organizations and NGOs
-Proposing strategies for boosting the capacity of the executive organizations and NGOs in charge of
resettlement operations
-Definition of the resettled individuals and criteria for determining their eligibility to receive indemnities and
other supports
-Methods applied in assessing damages for determining the indemnities and description of proposed ways for
paying indemnities
-Explaining about way of supervising resettlement operations by the executive organization and by the
independent supervisors for assurance over complete and palpable data gathering
A-2)    Brief Resettlement Plan:
The plan comprises of at least six steps:
-Carrying our surveys on the individuals to be resettled and evaluation of the prices of lands and properties
-Description of paying indemnities and other supports
-Consultation with the resettled individuals on acceptable alternatives
-Organizational liability for implementation and procedures for verification of the complaints
-Arrangements for supervision and implementation
-Timetable and budget
B)      Determining Criteria for Identifying People Entitled to Receive Indemnities
5-7- One of the important preconditions for observing human reverence and dignity in any society is improving
the standards of living of the deprived and vulnerable groups such as the women, children, the elderly, the
disabled and the handicapped. Vulnerable people form a large portion of the people living in informal
settlements. Therefore, it is necessary to pay due attention to the status of these people in the course of
resettlement process and help them reach a socially and economically acceptable status with an emphasis on
their empowerment and self-sufficiency. It is clear that resettlement does not affect all individuals equally;
People with stronger economic and social backup usually tolerate resettlement period with less problems, while
the poor families may suffer serious damages and harms during the resettlement process. Therefore, paying
attention to the socioeconomic specifications of the individuals will play a key role in reducing adverse impacts
of involuntary resettlement. Identification and classification of people can be carried out by either of the
following socioeconomic and legal methods:
B-1) Socioeconomic Method:
7


﻿In this method, the executive organization can make use of the information on the socioeconomic state of the
individuals such as their income, number of family members, profession or business, and degree of their
involvement in social abnormalities and problems, as well as to such factors as coverage by relief or support
services, then classify them into three groups of families with good status, medium status and vulnerable. The
criteria for this classification can be provided by inquiries from the related organizations such as Welfare
Organization, Imam Khomeini Relief Committee and the local conditions. People classified as vulnerable,
deserve to receive support services such as ex grants. Such grants would be provided by responsible authorities
based on the recommendations by the implementing agency and with the objective of generating employment
and self-sufficiency for the affected individuals.
B-2) Legal Method:
In this method, which has been taken from a legal approach to the issue of ownership, we can classify
individuals according to the type of ownership and the rights they had on the property. According to the existing
rules and regulations, people living in the area covered by the development project who are subject to
resettlement can be classified into the following four groups:
-People who possess official deed for plot and premises will receive indemnities according to law.
-People who lack official deed or title for the site but possess official documents for renting the premises.
These people can receive their indemnities according to law.
-People who lack official deed (or sales contract) for plot and premises, but whose long residence in the site
and superstructure is approved by the authorized bodies. These people can receive their indemnities
3
according to law .
-People who lack any of the above and who under current laws and regulations have no rights to the land,
will receive no indemnities. The majority of these people can be classified in the vulnerable group. There is
a gap between the operational policy of the World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development) and the Iranian laws on involuntary resettlement especially  on OP 4-12. The World Bank
emphasizes on paying indemnities to these people but the Iranian laws enacted on ownership consider no
rights for them. However, due to the supportive approach of the Constitution, specially the National
Document on Enabling and Regularizing Unauthorized Settlements, there must be presented some
supportive strategies for housing these people such as support under the umbrella of rescue programs of
charity organization, lease to own programs, payment of housing grants and loans and implementing the
Law on Housing Low Income Families passed on August 31, 1993.
i)      Classification of Properties:
5-8- Properties can be classified in terms of type of ownership, history of construction, quality of building
(acceptable, repairable, destructible, derelict), number of stories, having water, power and telephone, number of
rooms, area per capita, sanitary services (WC, washbasin, kitchen), and the number of families per house.
ii)     Methods of Information Dissemination:
5-9- Awareness of the individuals of the object, way of resettlement, advantages and restrictions play a key role
in implementation of the resettlement projects. Carrying out the project with the assistance of the local trustees
adds to its degree of success. The executive organization can first form a local team of trustees. This team is
well informed on the resettlement process and they introduce the project to the people in public gatherings and
in mosques and in other public places. Using social influence of the councilors at the Islamic city council can
also help successful implementation of the plan.
iii)    Methods for Consultation:
Laws corresponding to the amendments of Articles 147 and 148 of the "Law on Registration of Documents and Properties". For more
details refer to Appendix 1.
8


﻿5-10- Consulting the individuals and trying to brief them in a bid to relieve their worries or guiding them is
another important step in the process of resettlement. Consultation can be offered through official or unofficial
(local) channels:
Official method of consultation: The executive organization can present consultation services to the settlers by
forming a team of experts comprising of the urban development experts and social workers.
Local method of consultation: In this method, the executive organization can enjoy cooperation of city
councilors specially the individuals belonging to the same locality as well as the local trustees for required
consultation services. At any rate, the size of the city and way of social relations among the individuals are two
important factors that affect way of using official or local consultation methods.
iv)     How to Reach an Agreement with Individuals:
5-11- Using social influence of the local trustees and the elderly for reaching an agreement with the individuals
who are either resettled or lose their land properties, is totally or partially effective. The executive organization
should make use of public demands for development and official recognition and reach an agreement with them
collectively. The agreement must be official and written, observing the following:
Name(s) of owner(s)
Specifications of property as registered
Determining limits of the area to be transferred to the executive organization for its development project
Mentioning undertakings of the owner and the executive organization
Signature(s) of the owner(s) and the directors or the legal representatives of the executive organization
v)     Methods for Paying Indemnities:
5-12- The existing laws have clarified way of paying indemnities to the individuals. However, with respect to
the limited financial resources for implementation of urban development projects, the executive organization
can make use of the following facilities to indemnify the individuals at their written consent included in the
official agreement:
One) Transferring a parcel of land in exchange in another locality that must have appropriate conditions such as
minimum distance with the previous residence, having essential infrastructures such as water, power, drainage
system, as well as urban and social services in the nearby.
Two) Transferring residential and business facilities in another locality with the same conditions brought up in
"One" above.
Three) Granting free of charge certificate for construction
Four) Supplying construction materials
Five) Offering technical assistance in construction of new buildings
Six) Offering other facilities to the individuals to enable them share and enjoy benefits with other people
possessing required capital for construction
The executive organization can make use of any or all or a combination of these methods with respect to the
socioeconomic status of the individuals.
vi)     Ways and Strategies for Verifying Complaints:
5-13- Experience has shown that reaching an agreement in the beginning of the plan prevents later complaints.
But in cases the individuals make complaints with or without an agreement in advance, the executive
organization must anticipate for a board of dispute settlement in its operations for resettlement plan. The
members of the board will be the following:
A representative of the local body such as the local council
Representative of the managing director of the executive organization
A legal expert
At any rate, according to law the justice department as the legal source for investigation of the complaints must
be available to the claimants to hear their complaints.
vii)   Methods for Rating Properties:
9


﻿5-14- The existing laws such as the "Government Bill on Way of Buying and Possessing Lands and Properties
for Implementation of Public, Development and Military Projects" passed on Feb. 6, 1980 and the "Law on
Way of Evaluating Buildings, Lands and Real Estate Required by the Municipalities" passed on November 19,
1991 have clarified methods for rating properties based on expert appraisal. The executive organization can
make use of these laws.
viii)   Financing Indemnities:
5-15- The budgetary source of the executive organization and the government budgets are two major sources for
allotment of funds for indemnities. On this basis, it is necessary to anticipate for and consider credits required
for resettlement when formulating the budget law.
ix)     Methods for Monitoring Implementation of Resettlement Program:
5-16- The Technical Bureau of the Provincial Government is obligated to monitor the resettlement operations of
the executive organization. The monitoring is of a technical nature. Social and local monitoring of the
resettlement plan is with the local NGO. Both of the monitoring bodies are obligated to present report on
physical progress of the project within a stipulated time limit, to be mentioned in the resettlement project, to the
Enabling and Regularizing Committee stationed at the Provincial Government.
6)      Institutional Arrangements for Resettlement:
6-1- Formation of a special subcommittee at the Enabling and Regularizing Committee stationed at the
Provincial Government to coordinate among the executive organizations and institutions involved in the
Resettlement Plan.
The members of the Headquarters to Reorganize Unauthorized Settlement could consist of the following:
1-     Provincial Governor;
2-      District Governor of the relevant district;
3-      Head of the Provincial Office of the Management and Planning Organization;
4-      Head of the Provincial Office of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development;
5-      Head of the Provincial Office of the Ministry of Agricultural Crusade;
6-      Managing Director of the Regional Power Generation Company;
7-      Mayor of the relevant city;
8-      Managing Director of the urban Water & Sewage Company;
9-      Managing Director of the rural Water & Sewage Company;
10-    Head of the provincial branch of the National Iranian Gas Company;
11-    Head of the provincial branch of the Telecommunications Company of Iran;
12-    Director of the provincial Justice Department;
13-    Deputy Provincial Governor in charge of socio-political affairs;
14-    Deputy Provincial Governor in charge of development projects;
15-    Director General of the local branch of the Ministry of Roads and Transportation;
16-    Representative from the relevant Islamic City Council.
The members for the Special Committee on Resettlement could consist of the following:
Mayor of the relevant city who by decree of the Provincial Governor would also chair this committee;
Provincial Governor Director-general in charge of political affairs;
Provincial Governor Director-general in charge of social affairs;
Provincial Governor Director-general in charge of technical and standardization affairs;
Representative from the relevant Islamic City Council.
6-2- Formation of a public-elected NGO in the resettled regions and its official recognition as the official local
source in all operations. This institution is obligated to have close cooperation and coordination with the
executive organization in all stages of resettlement operations. It will be formed with the assistance of the
executive organization according to the rules and regulations considered for activity of NGOs.
10


﻿6-3- Formation of micro-lending funds and mobilizing them to grant sufficient loans to the resettled individuals
with the assistance of the World Bank and the local-elect board. The financial resources of such funds are
financed from rescue and charity organizations as well as from development related entities and NGOs;
6-4- Designing business centers in the development projects conforming to the level of technical expertise of
the individuals involved and giving priority to them in enjoying this opportunity at consultation with local-elect
board;
6-5- Creation of technical and vocational training centers in cooperation with the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs for the unskilled individuals involved in resettlement process in a bid to boost their human capital and
employ them in implementation of development projects. The training can be realized in cooperation with
qualified NGOs.
11


