E810
October 2002
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Program
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
A.     BACKGROUND
1.    Introduction
The proposed Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Program (UUHRP) aims at
supporting the government's effort in the housing sector in (a) narrowing the gap in the living
conditions between formal and informal settlements with in the capital cities in Iran; and in (b)
improving the performance of the housing sector through a long-term program of investment and
capacity-building . The UUHRP is composed of three phases of four years duration for a total
period of 12 years.
2.    Investment Components
Phase I of the program will consist of the following two main components:
(A)    Urban Upgrading and Community Enabling: this Component lays the foundations for
launching and sustaining a countrywide community enabling and slum upgrading
program. This will be accomplished through:
(a) Urban upgrading in participating municipalities consisting of: (i) rehabilitation of
roads sidewalks, drainage and street lighting, (ii) rehabilitation of local power and water
distribution networks, (iii) rehabilitation of public building and community civic facilities
(schools, clinics, community centers, neighborhoods markets) and, (iv) limited extension
of municipal and community infrastructure when deemed essential and within existing
public rights of way and approved land use plans;
(b) Studies for the preparation of community enabling and urban & institutional
upgrading programs;
(c) Institutional building in participating municipalities; and
(d) Community enabling in participating municipalities.
(B)   Capacity Building for National Housing Strategy: this component will help implement
the Housing Sector Strategy and Action Plans (finance, subsidies, construction, land
management, and national upgrading strategy). Technical assistance (TA) and capacity
building would be provided to enhance housing affordability and the efficient functioning
of housing markets.
3.    Institutional Arrangement
The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD) would be responsible for the overall
execution, financial management and coordination of the program. It will rely on a Project
Management Unit (PMU), and two Technical Units TUA and TUB to be created and housed at


﻿MHUD, UDRO, and NHC. The division of responsibilities between PMU and the technical units
will be as follows: PMU will be responsible for the overall monitoring of the program under the
oversight of the ISC. It will submit to the Bank bi-annual investment programs and quarterly
progress reports. TUA will be responsible for the day today monitoring of the community
enabling and substandard settlement upgrading component and submitting quarterly progress
reports to the PMU. TUB will likewise be responsible for the housing reform component. The
TUA shall ensure that:
*  Environmental considerations are included as criteria for selecting activities to be
supported by the program;
*  Environmental assessment would become an integral part of the project cycle of any
project;
*  Environmental guidelines are followed and used.
Component A will be implemented by the municipalities and the Provincial Housing and Urban
Development Organizations (PHUDOs) benefiting from the proposed Program. The
municipalities and PHUDOs will identify local needs in close coordination with local
communities, prepare a program consisting of a number of projects, coordinate with concerned
ministries, and implement the program. The municipalities and the PHUDOs will ensure the
following:
* Environmental guidelines are followed and used through out the project cycle;
* Environmental issues are introduced to beneficiaries through education and promotion of
environmentally beneficial subprojects.
* Environmental screening is properly undertaken;
* Potential environmental impact associated with each proposed project are adequately
identified through site visits;
* Mitigation measures during construction and operation are identified;
* Environmental management plans are implemented.
4.     Environmental Category and Issues
Phase-I of the proposed program would contribute to the improvement of the urban
environment through rehabilitation of roads, drainage, street lighting, schools, clinics, community
centers, water supply and sanitation systems in poor urban settlements. The specific projects will
be defined during the course of the program. Potential adverse environmental impacts during
construction and operation are expected to be localized and limited in magnitude and severity.
The program will not fund any projects that would require resettlement, deforestation, or would
adversely affect natural habitats, biodiversity, and cultural heritage sites. Accordingly, Phase-I of
the proposed program has been placed in "Category B" in accordance with World Bank
Operational Policy (OP 4.01) on Environmental Assessment (January 1999). Although the
UUHRP is expected to bring significant environmental and health benefits and no major
environmental issues are anticipated, certain projects to be funded under the program may require
special mitigation measures to protect the environment and enhance health safety.
Environmental guidelines to be used for the various types of projects will be prepared and
will enable the identification of all environmental concerns prior to the implementation of each
city program through the development of an environmental assessment report that would include
2


﻿an EMP consisting of mitigation activities and monitoring procedures for the various projects to
be funded under the city program.
Phase-II and Phase-III may include investments with more significant environmental
impacts, therefore, the environmental category and requirements will be re-assessed during the
appraisal of both subsequent phases.
5.     Legal and Regulatory Framework for Environmental Assessment
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in Iran was enabled by Note 82 of the Law for
the Second State Economical, Social and Cultural Development Plan of 1994, amended by Note
105 of the Third Development Plan. The EIA was approved by the Environmental High Council
(EHC) through Decree 138 of 12/04/1994. Detailed requirements were then defined in the Code
of Practice of 23/12/1997. The EHC has defined seventeen project types subject to EIA, seven in
Decree 138, with a further 10 added in 2000. EHC may also require an EIA for any other large
project. Screening thresholds for the first seven classified types are defined in the 1997 Code of
Practice, together with the requirements for the pattern of the assessment.
The competent body for EIA as defined in Decree 138 is the Iranian Department of
Environment (DOE), under the authority of the Environmental High Council. The Council is
composed of senior representatives of government ministries, senior academics and advisers to
the Iranian government. The DOE also has offices in each province with at least one member of
professional staff who contributes to EIA at the screening stage.
Apart from the EIA, there exist a wide range of regulations regarding environmental
protection including the Environmental Protection Act of 1974 and its executive by-law dated
1975, the Clean Water Act of 1982 amended in 1994 and the executive by-law on the prevention
of water pollution (1994), the Air Pollution Abatement Act of 1995 and its executive by-law
dated 1997, the Game and Fish law of 1957 with subsequent amendments made on 1975 and
1996. The Department of Environment has also issue a number of standards including: (i)
airborne noise pollution standards, (ii) ambient air standards, (iii) exhaust emission standards, (iv)
emission standards for factories and workshops and (v) effluent standards.
In addition, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has ratified a number of
international conventions for Environmental Protection and natural resources conservation
including: Convention on Wetlands of International Importance (Ramsar 1971), International
Convention on World Heritage Protection (1972), Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (1973), Vienna Convention for the Protection of the
Ozone Layer (1987), Montreal Protocol for the Protection of the Ozone layer (1987), Basel
Convention on the Control of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal (1989), International
Convention on Salvage (1989), UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (1992),
Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio 1992), Desertification Convention (Paris 1994).
6.     Assessment of Environmental Capacities
Since its creation in 1997, UDRO has implemented a large number of residential,
commercial and cultural projects in the various provinces of the country. In addition UDRO is
actively involved in the renovation and restoration of historic places and houses within the
country. UDRO implements its projects in close coordination with various public and private
organizations. For instance, the renovation of historic places is conducted in close coordination
with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Islamic Guidance. Furthermore, all projects designed
3


﻿by UDRO are discussed, reviewed and approved by a national committee which includes:
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Agriculture,
Management and Planning Organization and Mayor of the city. However, UDRO has yet to
develop capacities in EA and establish a close coordination mechanism with the DOE. During the
implementation of the UUHRP, UDRO's environmental capacities will be strengthened and a
coordination mechanism between UDRO and DOE will be established and will cover the various
project stages.
Environmental awareness is present among the municipalities who according to the
Municipality Law of 1965 as amended in 1973 have several environmental mandates such as air
pollution, solid wastes collection and disposal, water pollution, noise, etc.  However,
municipalities do not have environmental specialists within their staff members and it would be
necessary to provide them with technical assistance with respect to environmental matters.
The Department of Environment (DOE) has established an EIA Bureau under a Director
General. The Bureau has limited staff in the national office of Tehran, not all of whom are
professionally qualified. Significant implementation of EIA began in 1998; so far several
projects have been subject to environmental assessment according to the Iranian legislation. A
very small number of donor-funded projects have been undertaken in the country, and there has
been little involvement of international organizations in commissioning and approving EIA
studies. Few staff members of the DOE have participated at regional EA training workshops
organized by the METAP project. Under the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance
Program (METAP), the World Bank has financed an assessment of the EIA System in Iran.
Among the main findings of this assessment are: (i) a single category of EIA is defined for large
projects, broadly equivalent to the World Bank's Category A, without provisions for less
intensive studies equivalent to the World Bank's Category B, (ii) evaluation of alternative designs
to minimize negative environmental impacts are not evident, (iii) provision for environmental
management plans or implementation of monitoring is not clearly defined, and (iv) public
participation in the various EA stages is not spelled out.
Consultancy firms have limited capacities to carry out full EIA studies of high quality.
Most EIA studies are undertaken by individual consultants based in universities or other
institutions with the assistance of international specialists. Several academic bodies are beginning
to establish a framework capable of supporting more thorough EIA studies. The Iranian Society
for Scientists and Engineers has established an EIA section and most Iranian universities now
include EIA as a module in their environmental courses. Under the UNDP capacity strengthening
project, around 850 persons from various governmental departments, NGOs and the private sector
have been trained in EIA across the country. These activities can be expected to have created a
fairly wide understanding of the basic principles of EIA. Further strengthening of the national
EIA capacities will be achieved through the implementation of the UUHRP and other World
Bank projects that are under preparation such as the Water and Sanitation Project and the
Environmental Management Support Program.
7.     Environmental Review of Subprojects Funded by UUHRP
Zahedan has been identified as the first city with four categories of neighborhoods for
upgrading. An operating model is being developed in Zahedan and will be replicated in other
cities. A rapid environmental review including field visits was conducted to assess impacts that
might arise from potential projects that would require funding in Zahedan. The priority program
in Zahedan includes roads, drainage, street lighting, small schools, cultural facilities and health
centers. None of the proposed projects would have major irreversible environmental impacts; on
4


﻿the contrary all projects would contribute to positive environmental impacts. However the
cumulative impacts from these projects might be considerable if environmental considerations
within each project are not properly addressed. As the projects to be funded by the UJHRP were
not identified prior to appraisal and since these will be demand driven based on needs, the
following illegibility criteria and environmental requirements will be observed during the
implementation of the program:
(i) Projects that can have considerable irreversible negative impacts will not be approved for
funding and would include:
* Roads on slopes greater than 40%;
* Projects requiring deforestation;
* Projects adversely affecting natural habitats and biodiversity;
* Projects that would have a negative impact on cultural heritage sites.
(ii) Depending on the magnitude and the extent of the environmental impacts, the following
projects would require an environmental assessment report to be prepared according to the
terms of reference (TOR) provided in the environmental guidelines manual:
*  Wastewater schemes;
*  Water storage and treatment facility
* Roads with more than one kilometer length;
* Projects adjacent to critical natural habitats or protected areas;
In addition and whenever, the extension of municipal and community infrastructure would
necessitate the construction of new schools, clinics or community centers, then the siting of
the facility and the physical and sanitary conditions of the selected site will be evaluated
according to the details provided in the environmental guidelines manual.
(iii) Projects with minor environmental impacts would require the implementation of an
environmental management plan (EMP) according to the typical examples provided in the
environmental guidelines manual include:
*  Rehabilitation and upgrading of schools
*  Rehabilitation and upgrading of clinics
* Rehabilitation of roads and drainage
*  Community potable water supply networks
*  Rehabilitation of wastewater schemes
An environmental assessment report will be prepared for each city's program taking into
consideration the above environmental requirements and following the environmental guidelines
that will be incorporated in the Operational Manual. In view of the limited environmental
capacities within UDRO and the municipalities, the PMU will seek the services of an
environmental/safeguards consultant, who will be in-charge of the following:
* Reviewing the environmental screening of the subprojects included in the city program;
5


﻿*  Reviewing and approving the environmental assessment submitted by the consultant;
*  Conducting periodic monitoring of the projects;
*  Obtaining the required approvals
*  Preparing annual report of the environmental situation of the Program.
In addition for each city's program an environmental consultant /firm will be hired to
undertake the following tasks:
*  conduct screening and scoping for the various projects included in the program;
*  prepare an environmental assessment report based on the findings of the screening and
following the environmental guidelines;
*  Supervise the implementation of the environmental management plan (EMP).
The environmental assessment report of the programs to be funded in phase I will be
subject to review and approval by the World Bank. In parallel, training workshops will be
conducted to strengthen national capacities for reviewing and approving environmental
assessment reports. During the mid-term review, the World Bank will re-assess capacities for
reviewing and approving EAs and will agree with concerned authorities on the process to be
adopted for approving EAs.
Periodical monitoring of projects will be conducted by PMU to ensure compliance with
submitted monitoring plan. Moreover, monitoring and evaluation of projects will be conducted
by a local or an international consultant during the midterm review and at the end of the first
phase.
B.     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
8.     Objectives and Structure of the EMP
The objectives of the EMP are to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts identified
in each project. The implementation of the EMP will improve the quality of projects and will
ensure the participation of concerned stakeholders. The EMP will consist of three kinds of
activities:
*  Implementation of mitigation measures;
*  Strengthening the capacities of UDRO, municipalities, DOE regional offices, local
communities and contractors;
*  Monitoring and evaluation of mitigation measures identified during project formulation
or within the environmental assessment report.
The activities included in the EMP apply to Phase 1 of the program and will be reviewed
during the preparation of Phases II and III.
9.     Implementation of Mitigation Measures
Mitigation measures identified following desk/or field review shall be properly
implemented. Typical environmental impacts and possible mitigation measures are given in
6


﻿Table 1 for guidance. Municipalities will be required to adapt mitigation measures for the various
projects to be executed.
Table 1: Potential Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures for Different Projects
Project                     Potential Impacts                Mitigation Measures              Responsibility
Roads rehabilitation        *    Clogging of natural         *    Maintain ditches            Contractor
drainage channels
*    Poor storm water drainage   *    Provide drainage facilities  Municipality /contractor
*    Encroachment on private     *   Detailed property            Contractor/
property                         boundary surveys and        Municipality
flagging in field
*    Dumping of construction     *   Proper disposal of           Contractor
wastes and accidental            construction wastes
spills of machine fuels,
etc.
*    Risk of damage to           *   Use "chance find"            Municipality
unknown archaeological           procedures and coordinate   /Archeology department
sites                            with appropriate
*    Increased noise level in        government agency
cre*                             Plant trees along road      Municipality
city                             sides                       /community
*    Deterioration of air quality  *  Implement dust control
due to construction dust         measures such as wetting    Contractor
of dirt roads
Improvements to Water       *    Cross contamination sewage  *    Coordinate with appropriate  Water and Wastewater
Supply and Wastewater            and water lines due to           agency                      Company
pressure differentials and
leaks
*    Reduction in water          *    Review of the water balance  Water and Wastewater
availability to other            of the area                 Company
consumers
*    Improper disposal of        *   Proper disposal of           Contractor
construction debris              construction wastes
*    Destruction of historical sites  *  Use chance find procedures  Municipality/ Archeology
*    Risk of damage to               and coordinate with          department
archaeological sites             appropriate agency
*    Pollution of water courses
aMunicipality/ communit
*    Rehabilitation or provision of  Municipality/ community
new wastewater facility
Construction/Rehabilitation  *   Inadequate site location    *    Obtain land ownership status  Municipality/ community
of schools
*    Ensure that site and school
are part of the urban planning
and land use scheme
*    Avoid encroachment /
reduction of green areas
*    Avoid sites prone to flooding
or provide appropriate site
design measures
*    Ensure availability and
possibility of providing basic
infrastructure such as access
roads, electricity, water
7


﻿supply and sewage
*   Avoid sites prone to
earthquakes or ensure
appropriate engineering for
seismic resistance
*   Ensure provision of adequate
water quality and quantity
*   Priority given to rehabilitation
 Poor water supply and       of toilets
sanitation conditions    *    Installation of sanitation
(cesspools)
*   Proper disposal of solid
wastes
*   Adequate engineering design
to avoid odor, contamination
of underground water, etc...
*   Containerize infectious   Ministry of Health
Construction / Rehabilitation  Similar to those encountered with  wastes
of clinics               schools in addition to:
*   Improper disposal of medical  *  Public health awareness
wastes
Construction mitigation measures will be required to minimize inconveniences to the
public. Environment-protection provisions for civil works contract documents will be developed
in the environmental guideline manual and will be adopted and applied to all projects.
10.     Training Program and Capacity Building
Environmental expertise within the implementing and executing bodies will be
strengthened. Training programs will designed and implemented with the assistance of local or
international experts and will target three levels:
(i) PMU, municipalities and line ministries: At the initiation of the UUHRP, a one day
workshop will be provided to the staff of the PMU, municipalities and line ministries to
raise environmental awareness and to clarify the specific environmental requirements
related to design and implementation of the UUHRP.
(ii)    PMU technical specialists, DOE and national environment consultants: A three days
workshop will then be provided to the PMU environmental specialist, DOE and national
environmental consultants and will cover the following topics:
* EIA techniques
*   Screening projects for environmental review
*   Use of practical checklists
*   Best environmental practices in design and implementation of projects
*   Effective implementation of mitigation measures
*   Project supervision
8


﻿* Monitoring and evaluation
(iii)    Local    NGOs,     Communities       and    Contractors:     Workshops      for   local   NGOs,
communities and contractors, focusing on public awareness, case studies of
environmental issues experienced in similar projects, use of environmental guidelines and
implementation of mitigation measures.
11.      Environmental Monitoring
Environmental Monitoring will be the responsibility of the municipalities in close
coordination with the relevant authorities and will include:
*        Compliance monitoring during construction
*        Monitoring of significant impacts during the operation of the subprojects.
The PMU environmental specialist will also conduct periodic monitoring by visiting the
sites of the various projects at least once a year.
Monitoring indicators shall be developed for both the construction and the operation
phase of the projects. Monitoring of construction activities will have to ensure that mitigation
measures of construction impacts are being implemented properly, while the monitoring of
operation is to ensure that no unforeseen negative impacts are arising.            Typical examples of
monitoring plans are given in Table2.
Table 2: Typical Examples of Monitoring Plan for the Operation of Different Projects
Project               Monitoring Indicators         Responsibility                    Frequency
Roads rehabilitation  *    Drainage channels clean and  *  Municipalities in close    Semi-annual
properly maintained           coordination with local       assessment
community
Improvements to Water  *   Distribution network          Water and Wastewater Company  Semi-annual
Supply and Sanitation      without leaks                 in close coordination with   assessment
Facilities            *    No leakage or overflows of    municipality and local community
manholes or drains            Ministry of Health and Water and
Wastewater Company
*   Water Quality Monitoring                                    Semi-annual
assessment
Rehabilitation of     *    Toilet facilities clean and  *  Municipalities in close    Semi-annual
schools                   functioning properly          coordination with local       assessment
*   Drinking water faucets clean  community
and safe from contamination
*   Adequate quantity and
quality of water supply   *   Municipalities in close       Semi-annual
coordination with water and   assessment
wastewater company
*   Medical wastes separated in
Rehabilitation of clinics  proper containers        *    Ministry of Health in close   Semi-annual
*   Availability of guidelines    coordination with local       assessment
for proper disposal of        community
medical wastes
12.      Cost Estimates
An estimated amount of US$ 300k will be allocated for meeting the environmental
requirements of the UUHRP - Phase I as detailed in the Table below.
9


﻿Cost Estimates
Component                                          Qty                 Unit Rate       Total Cost in Thousands
______________________________US$                                    US$
Project Mana2ement
TUA Environmental/safeguards specialist            48 MM           1500/month                   72
Assessment of major environmental issues in 28 cities  lump-sum                                 60
Evaluation of Investment Programs                  4 MM           2000/month                     8
Preparation of Fact Find Procedures for the protection of  lump-sum                              5
Archeological and Historical sites
Environmental Assessment of Phase 11 and updating of  lump-sum                                  25
environmental management guidelines
Subtotal                                                                                        170
EA Preparation/Supervision
Environment consultants for preparing and supervising EA  6 cities  8000/city                   48
of city's program
Subtotal                                                                                        48
Capacity Building and Training Workshops:
PMU, municipalities, line ministries and regional
organizations:
- One day workshop on the use and application of
environmental guidelines manual                    5 workshops    2000/workshop                 10
- Three days workshop
Local NGOs, communities and Contractors:
- Awareness workshop for Local NGOs, Communities and  3 workshops  5000/workshop                15
Contractors
5 workshops     5000/workshop                 25
Subtotal                                                                                        50
Operation materials and supplies                                                                 12
Monitoring and Evaluation                          2MM            5000/month                    10
TOTAL                                                                                           300
Schedule of Implementation
Year 1         Year 2           Year 3          Year 4
1) TUA
environmental/safeguards
specialist                   _        __
2) Assessment of major
environmental issues in 28
cities
3) Preparation of Fact Find
Procedures
4) Consultants to prepare         m                             m
and supervise EA
5) Training
-   PMU/Municipalities           .                                           m
-   use and application of
manual                                                          -
-   Awareness workshops
for local NGOs,
communities and
contractors
6) Monitoring and evaluation
m                           -m
at the program level
7) Environmental Assessment
of Phase II
10


