                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001412



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47390)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                                      FOR THE

        IRAN URBAN UPGRADING AND HOUSING REFORM PROJECT

                  IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

       IRAN URBAN UPGRADING AND HOUSING REFORM PROGRAM



                                 October 26, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective January 20, 2010)

                    Currency Unit = Iranian Rial (IR)
                         IR 1.00 = US$0.000104
                          US$1.00 = IR 9,600

                             FISCAL YEAR




                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL    Adaptable Program Loan
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CBI    Central Bank of Iran
CBOs   Community-Based Organizations
DOE    Department of Environment
DM     Supreme Audit (Dowan Mouhassaba)
EGM    Environmental Guidelines Manual
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
EUC    Executive Upgrading Committees (at the local level)
FMR    Financial Management Reporting
FOM    Financial Operations Manual
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GoI    Government of Iran
HUDO   Housing and Urban Development Organization
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICT    Information and Communication Technology
ISC    Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (at the central level)
ISR    Implementation Status Report
LDF    Local Development Fund
LG     Local Government
MEAF   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MHUD   Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MPO    Management and Planning Organization
MOI    Ministry of Interior
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NGO    Non-Governmental Organizations
NHC    National Habitat Committee
NLHO   National Land and Housing Organization
NS     National Shopping
OM     Operations Manual
O&M     Operations and Maintenance
PA      Project Account
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
PSR     Project Status Report
PVO     Private Voluntary Organization
QBS     Quality Based Selection
QCBS    Quality and Cost Based Selection
QPR     Quarterly Progress Report
RPF     Resettlement Policy Framework
SA      Special Account
SOE     Statement of Expenses
ToR     Terms of Reference
TUA     Technical Unit for Component-A
TUB     Technical Unit for Component-B
UDRO    Urban Development and Rehabilitation Organization
UUHRP   Urban Upgrading Housing Reform Project
WA      Withdrawal Application


                      Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                    Country Director: Hedi Larbi
                     Sector Manager: Anna M. Bjerde
                Project Team Leader: Soraya Goga
                   ICR Team Leader: Christianna Johnnides
                                   Islamic Republic of Iran
                          Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project




                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 18
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 29
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 29
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 32
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 37
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 38
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 39
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 45
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 48
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 53
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 59
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 70
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 71
  Annex 10. Project Background ..................................................................................... 72
  Annex 11. Missions Trajectory ..................................................................................... 77
  Annex 12. List of Projects ............................................................................................ 78
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                      Iran Urban Upgrading and
Country:                Islamic Republic of Iran Project Name:
                                                                      Housing Reform Project
Project ID:             P073433                 L/C/TF Number(s): IBRD-47390
ICR Date:               01/20/2010              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Iran
Original Total
                        US$80.0 Million         Disbursed Amount: US$31.2 Million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         US$80.0 Million
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                           Original
        Process            Date           Process                     Revised / Actual Date(s)
                                                            Date
Concept Review:         06/03/2002 Effectiveness:        09/22/2004          09/22/2004
Appraisal:              11/10/2003 Restructuring:
Approval:               05/25/2004 Mid-Term Review: 01/22/2007               05/14/2007
                                     Closing:            12/31/2009          12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                        Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                   Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                   Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower              Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:                  Unsatisfactory
           C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                         QAG Assessments
                            Indicators                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                                     No                                  Moderately Satisfactory
 at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                 Quality of
                                     Yes                                           None
    time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
    DO rating before            Moderately
 Closing/Inactive status:      Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector              10                     10
Housing finance and real estate markets                            20                     20
Other social services                                              35                     35
Roads and highways                                                 10                     10
Sub-national government administration                             25                     25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                24                    24
Gender                                                              13                    13
Municipal governance and institution building                       25                    25
Other public sector governance                                      13                    13
Participation and civic engagement                                  25                    25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:             Shamshad Akhtar                    Christiaan Poortman
Country Director:           Hedi Larbi                         Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:             Anna M. Bjerde                     Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:        Soraya Goga                        Sateh El-Arnout/Mayumi Kato
ICR Team Leader:            Christianna Johnnides
ICR Primary Author:         Roohi Abdullah

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives
The main development objectives of the Project (APL1) are to: (i) improve the living
conditions in under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five provincial capital cities; and (ii)
prepare the systems, capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiate the market based
housing sector reforms. To ensure that investments in upgrading are of high priority to
their ultimate beneficiaries, municipalities are expected to undertake a strategic planning
process with significant community participation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target        Formally     Actual Value
                                                    Values (from           Revised      Achieved at
      Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                      approval             Target      Completion or
                                                    documents)             Values      Target Years
1. PDO-1. Increase in                                                                (?) Increase in
service coverage and      % increase in school % increase in school
                                                                                     school attendance
improved access to        attendance (boys and attendance (boys and
                                                                                     (boys and girls) in
basic infrastructure in   girls) in the targeted girls) in the targeted
                                                                                     the targeted
upgraded settlements      neighborhoods due neighborhoods due to
                                                                                     neighborhoods due
in each of the five       to the project (0%). the project (10%).
                                                                                     to the project (0%).
participating cities.
                        The ratio of                                                 The ratio of
2. PDO-2. Increased mortgage loans              The ratio of mortgage                mortgage loans
efficiency of the       provided by Bank        loans provided by                    provided by Bank
primary housing         Maskan to total         Bank Maskan to total                 Maskan to total
finance markets with mortgage loans             mortgage loans                       mortgage loans
active participation of provided in Iran is     provided in Iran is                  provided in Iran is
private banks.          equal to 95%.           equal to 60%.                        equal to 63%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target           Formally     Actual Value
                                                 Values (from              Revised      Achieved at
       Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                    approval               Target      Completion or
                                                  documents)               Values      Target Years
                                             % of contract
                                                                                     % of contract
                        % of contract        commitments and
                                                                                     commitments and
                        commitments and number of
                                                                                     number of
                        number of            participating cities
                                                                                     participating cities
                        participating cities implementing
1. Improved basic                                                                    implementing
                        implementing         demand-driven
physical and socio-                                                                  demand-driven
                        demand-driven        physical and socio-
economic                                                                             physical and socio-
                        physical and socio- economic upgrading
infrastructure in the 5                                                              economic
                        economic upgrading works: (a) Level of
participating cities.                                                                upgrading works:
                        works: (a) Level of commitment=100%
                                                                                     (a) Level of
                        commitment=0%        (only possible with
                                                                                     commitment=54%
                        (b) Participating    loan extension)
                                                                                     (b) Participating
                        municipalities=0     (b) Participating
                                                                                     municipalities=5
                                             municipalities=5
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                        IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    08/06/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.00
  2    12/07/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.40
  3    04/14/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   1.80
  4    11/01/2005    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             1.80
  5    02/02/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             2.97
  6    09/28/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             6.77
  7    06/29/2007    Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Unsatisfactory            8.00
  8    12/10/2007    Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Unsatisfactory            9.19
  9    03/13/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           13.38
 10    12/29/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           23.70
 11    06/29/2009    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           29.74
 12    12/25/2009   Moderately Unsatisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory           31.19

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1     Context at Appraisal
<this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g. PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

Background: The project was designed to respond to the prevalent context in Iran at that time,
mainly the:

(i) Physical Infrastructure Constraints: During the last decade Iran experienced rapid urban
growth that had exceeded the capacity of the state and the municipalities to be able to extend
urban infrastructure and services. Faced with 2.4 percent population growth annually over the last
two decades and with approximately 65 percent of the Iran's population lived in urban areas,
resulted in a significant proliferation of under-service settlements, many of these outside of the
city limits and therefore not recognized by the municipalities. It was estimated that 20-30% of the
urban fabric in Iran was the home to the poorest segment of the urban populations.

(ii) Natural Constraints: Iran is one of the most seismically active regions in the world.
Destructive earthquakes occurred regularly and resulted in significant economic and human
losses. In Iran housing losses was estimated to be on an average of one percent of the existing
housing stock which was destroyed annually by earthquakes, and 1.3 percent of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), as a result, the fiscal impact of natural calamities was substantial. During the last
decade alone, the aggregated annual loss incurred in Iran due to natural disasters was estimated at
about three percent of GDP.

(iii) Demand Constraints: The demand constraint was comprised of underdeveloped housing
finance sector and prevalent system of inefficient housing subsidies. On the former, although the
banking system in Iran was nationalized in 1979, however the supply of housing loans was small
(3% of GDP). Bank Maskan, was only public owned bank that was providing long-term housing
finance to households although the demand was on the rise for access to capital for housing
specially for targeted social groups. On the latter, based on preliminary estimates suggested that
housing subsidies in Iran were significant, reaching 4.5% of the GDP. However, the subsidies
benefit accrued largely to the higher income households, developers, financing institutions and
buyers, leading to inefficiencies, speculation and deviation of subsidies from their beneficiaries.

(iv) Supply Constraints: The supply constraints comprised of insufficient supply of undeveloped
and serviced land and rigid urban planning and management processes. On the former, in Iran,
majority of the urban land around the periphery of many cities was government owned, which left
little room for development of an active land market. The Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development (MHUD), owned the public land, had initiated a new urban land development
policy with the intention to increase the availability of developable land substantially; however,
most of the land remained un-serviced and un-titled. Withholding land constrained and stifled
private sector development and seriously restricted efficient operation of the land market. On the
latter, urban planning in Iran was directive and hierarchical in terms of both coverage and nature
and resulted in proliferation of informal settlement in and around major cities. In response the
government was rehabilitating these under-serviced neighborhoods.

(v) Institutional Constraints: Overall, it was envisaged that the local authorities and other
stakeholder would ultimately be empowered to make decisions on planning, budgeting, execution,
and management of city policy in response to the local needs and in line with the national
development plans and policy guideline. Increased decentralization and devolution of
responsibilities to local authorities (provincial agencies and local government) in areas such as:


                                                 1
urban planning, land management, and housing was among the urban sector's key priorities of
Iran's foreseeable future, and would require, among other things, considerable training and
institutional capacity building at the local level.
Collectively the above stated constraints in the context of Iran resulted in: (i) a highly volatile
housing market; (ii) unbalanced output in favor of large units; and (iii) a very fragmented
financing through numerous small public housing programs. Also, the GoI identified a serious
mismatch between housing supply and demand, with over-supply at the top end of the market,
and under-supply at the bottom. The Bank's Housing Sector Strategy and Action Plan against this
background aimed to increase the elasticity of serviced land supply; level the playing field
between public and private construction companies; develop market-based housing finance; and
improve the targeting of subsidies.
Against this backdrop the main priorities of the Interim Strategy note were, namely: (a) support
for reforms and economic management; (b) support for the social protection agenda; (c) support
for environmental and natural resources management. The Interim Strategy Note also focused on
priority areas such as low-income housing, water and sanitation, urban upgrading and community
based infrastructure, and the project design was consistent with these priorities.

Key Sector Issues: The 3rd Five Year Development Plan (1999/0-2003/4) gave a prominent role to
the housing sector in Iran and the 3rd Housing Development Plan set out four strategic objectives
that aimed at: (i) increasing the flow of long term domestic and foreign resources for housing
finance in tandem with the adoption of the adequate building technologies and the development
of professional and efficient construction industry; (ii) promoting financing for and mass
production of small housing units adapted to the needs and affordability of low-income and
vulnerable households; (iii) improving the efficiency of taxation and subsidies in the housing
sector and to promote the housing insurance; and (iv) reducing government controls and devolve
responsibilities to local authorities (provincial agencies and municipalities) for housing, urban
land management (including government owned land) and promotion of rental housing and
cooperative.
Within this context and to assist the GoI realize its vision for the housing sector as described in
the 3rd Five Year Plan, the project aimed to address the Infrastructure,1 supply,2 demand,3 and
institutional4 constraints, in response. As the above issues cannot be tackled all at once, strategic
choices in the project design were made to balance the primacy of intervention versus
difficulty/gestation period required to carry out the reforms during the planned project phases.
The Loan Agreement was signed between the GoI and the World Bank on July 17, 2004 and the
loan became effective on October 22, 2004.



1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


1
  The project was aimed to address peripheral urban settlements in up to 5 provincial capital cities, scaling-up to 10
cities subsequently under APL2 and 3, and instigate a national community enabling and urban upgrading program.
2
  The project was aimed to explicitly address the regulatory and planning barrier to supply of land such as constraints in
planning, development, and regularization of urban land in the pilot cities and scaling up during the following phases,
while attempting to introduce a more demand driven and transparent system for allocation of public land.
3
  These were mainly related to regulatory and institutional barriers in the area of housing finance and subsidies.
4
  The project also aimed at assisting the local authorities assumes their full responsibilities through capacity building
and investments. In addition to developing and information system that would provide timely data and analysis to the
policy makers, financial intermediaries and investors, thereby establishing a proper coordination mechanism between
MHUD, MPO and CBI.


                                                            2
The overall purpose of the Iran Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project (UUHRP) was to
facilitate the transition to a market-led housing sector in Iran while improving the living
conditions for low and moderate income households. To achieve the above, a three phase
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was prepared spread over a period of twelve (12) years.5 The
APL1 is the focus of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The main development objectives of the project (APL1) were to: (i) improve the living conditions
in under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five (5) provincial capital cities; and (ii) prepare the
systems, capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiate the market based housing sector reforms.
To ensure that investments in upgrading are of high priority to their ultimate beneficiaries,
municipalities were expected to undertake a strategic planning process with significant
community participation.
The performance of APL1 was designed to be measured against two categories of indicators, one
for each PDO noted above. In the case of PDO (i) the key performance indicators were: (i)
increase in the service coverage and improved access to basic infrastructure services in upgraded
settlements; (ii) increase in the level of satisfaction of households in upgraded settlements with
their living conditions; and (iii) improved municipal capacity to plan development, coordinate
investments and community initiatives in participating municipalities. In the case of PDO (ii) the
key performance indicators were: (i) public land in jurisdiction of participating municipalities
allocated in a transparent manner and in response to market demand; (ii) established system for
introducing demand side housing subsidies; (iii) reduced liquidity risk associated with loan linked
housing savings schemes ­ maintained positive net treasury position and (iv) increased efficiency
of primary housing finance markets with active participation of the private banks as demonstrated
by mortgage loans issued by at least 6 banks, 3 of which are private.6
In addition, as this was an APL, the project was also evaluated based on the triggers which were:
(i) establishment of an integrated "urban upgrading budget" at the national level; (ii)
establishment of transparent system for releasing public land systematically and in response to
market demand in place for urban expansion in at least 3 participating cities; (iii) establishment of
basis of fair competition for commercial housing finance operations for all banking institutions in
terms of legal, regulatory, and subsidy framework; (iv) establishment of regulation and
supervision of new and/or restructured housing savings products; (v) establishment of public
information system for land and housing markets, including housing subsidies; and (vi) adoption
of direct, well targeted and explicitly budgeted demand side housing subsidy instruments.7

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification



5
  As indicated the project was conceptualized as a three phase Adaptable Loan Program (APL) spread over a period of
twelve years. The purpose of APL1 (US$ 100 million over 5 year period) was to: (i) institute and integrated approach
to upgrading informal settlements, and (ii) lay the foundations (of systems, capacity, and framework) and initiate
housing sector reforms. The APL2 (US$ 80 million over a four year period) envisioned: (i) up-scaling urban upgrading
to the national level; and (ii) launching housing sector reforms with a focus on deepening the housing finance sector
and streamlining the subsidies system. The APL 3 (US$ 150 million over a three year period) aimed at: (i) increase the
amount of long term resources for housing finance channeled through the financial markets; (ii) address the more
complex problems of revitalization of run down historic city centers and preservation of the historic sites and cultural
heritage; and (iii) build capacity of local governments in urban management in a decentralized context.
6
  It is important to annotate three key anomalies: (i) neither the baselines, methodology to establish baselines, nor the
targets were defined for the project's original set of performance indicators; (ii) the indicators were not quantifiable and
measurable, and therefore, fairly subjective; and (iii) were not fully reported in the Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs).
7
  These triggers were classified under Component A (trigger (i)) and Component B of the project (trigger (ii)-(vi)).


                                                             3
The PDO was not revised. Although, the key indicators were not officially revised, they were also
not fully incorporated in the Implementation Status Report (ISR).8 Moreover, the methodology
for establishing the baselines, undertaking surveys and subsequently for meeting the targets was
not clearly established at the onset of the project for the original set of performance indicators. At
the project implementation and supervision level the team made effort to redesign the indicators
to be more objective, quantifiable and reflective of the scope of the project. However, due to the
continued project TTL transition this was not followed through effectively during implementation.
In addition, by the fourth (4th) year of project implementation, it was clear that the APL2 would
not be financed through the Bank, putting the APL approach in question. A revision of the
indicators was clearly warranted at this point of project implementation,9 however, this was not
undertaken. As a result, given the lack of reliable baseline information and non-quantifiable
indicators at the start of the project, the impacts of the PDOs could not be measured for the
project.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The primary target group that benefited from the project was the low-income households that
were living or continued to live in and around the five participating cities,10 particularly in the
neighborhoods where the sub-projects were targeted. This group experienced much lower housing
and service standards as compared to the rest of the city, higher vulnerability to the risk of
evictions and earthquakes, and virtually had no access to serviced plots at affordable costs.
Another target group that benefited from the project was the private construction sector and other
industries and services with strong linkages to the housing sector. In addition, the Urban
Development and Rehabilitation Organization (UDRO) under the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development (MHUD) also benefited from the project in terms of capacity building for preparing,
managing and implementing urban upgrading projects in Iran, as the Project Management Unit
(PMU) for the implementation of Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project (UUHRP) was
housed within UDRO.11

1.5 Original Components12 (as approved)

The project objectives, under APL1, were to be achieved through three main components: (i)
urban upgrading, community enabling and capacity building programs in up to 5 selected cities;
(ii) technical assistance for housing sector reforms; and (iii) technical assistance and capacity
building for project implementation.13


8
   The Project Status Report (PSR)/ Implementation Status Report (ISR) 1 (08/06/2004) and 2 (05/25/2004)
incorporated the indicators though not fully and comprehensively as annotated in the PAD and in the section 1.2 above.
When the PSR in the system was changed to ISR's, and as per ISR 3 (04/14/2005) the indicators were reduced to two
main indicators and one intermediate indicator. In ISR 5 (02/02/2006) the indicator for PDO 1 was revised/reworded
and this continued this way till the completion of the project.
9
  The upgrading under Component A comprised of almost 90% allocation of the project financing.
10
   Bandar Abbass, Zahedan, Tabriz, Sanandaj and Kermanshah.
11
   This group though not identified in the PAD also gained significantly in the form capacity building for the project
preparation and implementation of urban upgrading program which is now being replicated nationally.
12
   The elaborated version of this section is provided in Annex 10 as Project Background.
13
   Although the focus of this ICR is APL1, APL2 (US$ 80 million over a four year period) was proposed to cover two
components: scaling-up urban upgrading to another 15 provincial capital cities and launching of housing sector reforms.
These reforms would focus on deepening the housing finance sector through eliminating regulatory preferences for


                                                          4
Component A: Urban Upgrading (estimated cost: US$ 89.62 million; revised cost: US$ 90.33
million; actual cost US$ 37.74 million). This component laid the foundations for launching and
sustaining country-wide urban upgrading programs in Iran. The Program was designed to be
implemented in pre-identified cities and neighborhoods that meet specific criteria in terms of
income and level of services. The component consisted of four sub-components that addressed
the implementation of APLl and the preparation of APL2. This component constituted around
90% of the total project financing at appraisal.

Sub-component A-l: Design and supervision of upgrading programs in APL1 cities.
Sub-component A-2: Implementation of upgrading programs in APLl cities through:
       (a) Physical Upgrading Program,
       (b) Community Enabling Programs, and
       (c) Municipal Capacity Building Programs

Sub-component A-3: Design of upgrading programs for APL2 cities.
Sub-component A-4: Design of financing arrangements for upgrading under APL2 and APL3.

Component B: Housing Sector Reforms (estimated cost: US$ 3 million; revised cost: US$ 3
million; actual cost: US$ 1.39 million). The component was aimed at enhancing housing
affordability and the efficient functioning of the housing market in Iran in the long term. It
consisted of foreign and local technical assistance, training and equipment for implementing the
specific priority actions identified in reforming the housing sector as outlined in the Housing
Sector Strategy and the ensuing Action Plan. These priority actions were grouped into four areas
of focus: land markets, housing finance, housing subsidies, and housing information, as sub-
components, mainly:

Sub-component B-1: Housing and Land Management.
Sub-component B-2: Housing Finance.
Sub-component B-3: Housing Subsidies
Sub-component B-4: Housing Information

This component constituted around 3% of the total project financing at appraisal.

Component C: Project Management and Technical Assistance (estimated cost: US$ 2 million;
revised cost: US$ 3 million; actual cost: US$ 0.37 million). This component financed: (i) the cost
of office and ICT equipment required for project management and implementation and; (ii) the
cost of technical assistance for project management and implementation that included hiring of
individual consultants and consulting firms in areas of project management, financial
management and procurement, project monitoring and evaluation including the documentation of




public banks and ensuring a level playing filed and competitive environment for all banks providing housing finance. It
would also attempt to support government's effort to streamline the housing subsidies system by moving towards a
more transparent and direct subsidies that relay on demand-side instruments targeted to poor households. APL3
(US$ 150 million over a three year period) would build on the foundation laid during the previous phases. It will cover
three components. The first will further scale up upgrading to all remaining provincial capital cities and address the
more complex problems of the revitalization of run down historic city centers. The second component would focus on
building municipal management capacity in decentralized context. The third component would aim at increasing the
amount of long-term resources for the housing finance channeled through the financial markets.


                                                          5
the project experience, arranging study tours and training for key policy-makers and PMU staff.
This component constituted around 2%/3%14 of the total project financing at appraisal.
Project Costs: At appraisal, the total project costs were US$ 100 million of which US$ 20
million was to be financed through GoI (see Annex 1, for details).

1.6 Revised Components

The original components were not formally revised. Although, the project budget allocation for
each component was marginally revised during the Project Launch Mission (October 13-20,
2004) 15 by the Borrower (see Annex 1, for details). However, the project budget based on
procurement categories as stipulated in the Loan Agreement (LN-4739-IRN) remained unchanged.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Amendments to the Loan Agreement: At the Borrower's request, the Loan Agreement was
amended thrice. In early 2007, the GoI issued directive restricting issuance of Letters of Credit
(L/Cs) and maintenance of all World Bank Special Accounts (SA) denominated in US Dollars ($).
This necessitated "Omnibus Amendment" to the Loan Agreement which converted the currency
denomination of the Special Account to EUR  and increased the initial Authorized Allocation to
Euro  4,000,000,16 thereby providing the GoI flexibility to open and maintain SA in Euro  and
its easy replenishment.

In 2007, the Borrower requested an increase in the initial limit of Special Account (SA)
Authorized Allocations from Euro  1,500,000 to Euro  4,000,000.17 The request was made to
help facilitate the implementation of the project and to resolve delays in transfers of funds to Iran
which occurred as a result of shifting of the SA denominations to Euro. On October 29, 2007, the
Bank accepted the request of the GoI, pursuant to paragraph 1(c) of Section 6 of the Loan
Agreement; the Bank waived the Authorized Allocation limitation clause linked to the aggregate
disbursements under the respective categories for the Special Account (SA), irrespective of the
disbursement level reached.18

In addition, as a response to the Borrower's request,19 prior thresholds of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for works procurement were raised from $2 million to $5 million, to facilitate
implementation and expand competitive local participation. In an effort to facilitate


14
   Changed to 3% during Launch Mission, October 13-20, 2004
15
   As per the Aide Memoir ­ Project Launch Mission, October 13-20, 2004.
16
   As per communication from Ms. Irina L. Kichigina, counsel, on 10/18/2007 in response to Re: Re: IRAN: Urban
Upgrading and Housing Reform Project (P073433) - LN. 47390-IRN: Request to Increase the Special Account (SA)
Authorized Allocations
17
   Please note that "omnibus amendment" for Special Account arrangement in the number of projects in Iran, including
UUHRP, has recently been counter signed. The amendment had changed the currency of the Special Account, from
US$ to Euro .
18
   As per the letter sent by Mr. Joseph Saba, Director, Middle East and North Africa Region on October 29, 2007 to Mr.
Ahmad Pakbaz, Director General and Financial Controller, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, Islamic
Republic of Iran.
19
   As per the letter sent by Mr. Joseph Saba, Director, Middle East and North Africa Region on October 30, 2007 to Mr.
Ahmad Pakbaz, Director General and Financial Controller, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, Islamic
Republic of Iran.


                                                          6
implementation momentum and at the Borrower's request, the Bank also increased the threshold
for Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) from $100,000 to $200,000 (under the 2004
Guidelines), allowing flexibility for the implementing agency, with Bank's prior approval to
select the consultants quickly for certain assignments.20
Extension of Grace Period: The project closed on December 31, 2009, with the grace period
ending on April 30, 2010. At the request of the Borrower, 21 the World Bank allowed further
disbursement from the loan account for Withdrawal Applications (WA) received by (IBRD) by
close of business on June 30, 2010 for eligible expenditures made before the closing date of the
project (i.e., payments made or due for goods, works, and services that have been provided prior
to the closing date, December 31, 2009).22
Sub-project Classification: The sub-projects list for physical works during project
implementation was updated based on the priority of the municipality and neighborhoods under
the urban upgrading component (updated list of sub-projects provided below ).23 Also, to better
assess the impact the sub-projects were classified under Social, Economic and Community
Infrastructure sub-projects in early 2008. 24
     Updated Sub-project Classification (Projects highlighted have not been explicitly stated in the PAD preliminary sub-project list)

     Type of
     Projects    Social Infrastructure                                    Code                     Agency Responsible

                 Pre-school                                               S01     Education Organization (Ministry of Education)
                 Elementary School                                        S02     Education Organization (Ministry of Education)
        1
                 Guidance School/Secondary School                         S03     Education Organization (Ministry of Education)
                 High School                                              S04     Education Organization (Ministry of Education)
                 Health Center                                            S05     University of Medical Sciences
        2
                 Specialized Health Clinic                                S06     University of Medical Sciences
        3        Technical and Vocational Training Center (TVTC)          S07     Technical and Vocational Training Organization

     Type of
     Projects    Economic Infrastructure                                  Code                     Agency Responsible

        4        Canal / Khoor / Floodways                                E01     Municipality 
                 Sidewalks                                                E02     Municipality 
        5        Drainage Network                                         E03     Municipality 
                 Bridge Construction                                      E04     Municipality
                 Roads                                                    E05     Municipality
                 Water Network                                            E06     Water and Sewerage Organization
        6
                 Sewerage Network                                         E07     Water and Sewerage Organization
                 Street Lighting                                          E08     Electrical Power Organization
        7
                 Electrical Networks                                      E09     Electrical Power Organization



20
   Loan Agreement changes were made under Schedule 4 " Procurement," Section I, Part C.1 and Section II, Part C.1.
21
   As per the letter dated April 18, 2010 from the Director General, Foreign Loans Supervision requesting the World
Bank to extend the grace period for disbursement on the project for another 2 months.
22
   As per the letter dated April 26, 2010 from the Country Director, Middle East North Africa Region to the Director
General, Foreign Loans Supervision accepting the request.
23
   As per the Annex 2b of the PAD, the final list of the subprojects to be funded under the loan is meant to come out
only after the community consultation process/utilizer organization needs assessment for a particular area and once the
project feasibility was undertaken. Also, as per the PAD, the initial sub-project listed were water supply, power, roads,
transport, area development, education, health and other remunerative and non-remunerative urban infrastructure
contributing to the improvement of the living standard of the urban populations. Based on the flexibility provided by
the drafted language in PAD, it essentially allows for remunerative and non-remunerative urban infrastructure, leaving
room for some flexibility on deciding the final sub-projects, which has been exercised by the project.
24
   A classification of project typologies was agreed upon during the supervision mission (January 23 ­ February 6,
2008). Initially the social, economic and community infrastructure sub-projects included a total of nineteen (19) types
of projects, this was reduced to the current total of fourteen (14) during the next mission (November 9 ­ 25, 2008).


                                                                    7
     Type of
     Projects   Community Infrastructure                            Code                   Agency Responsible
        8       Park                                                C01    Municipality
        9       Sports Complex /Sports Field                        C02    Municipality
                                                                           Municipality / Ministry of Culture and Islamic
       10       Library                                             C03
                                                                           Guidance
                Youth Development Center/Development Training
       11                                                           C04    Youth Development Organization
                Center
       12       Multi-Purpose Hall                                  C05    Education Organization (Ministry of Education)
                Cultural and Arts Center / Cultural Educational
       13                                                           C06    Municipality
                Center /Cultural Development Center/Culture House
       14       Cultural/Sports Hall                                C07    Municipality


Retroactive Economic Analysis: During a Supervision Mission (January 23-February 6, 2008)
the project team recommended to the Borrower to undertake an update of all the ex ante sub-
project economic analysis done at the feasibility stage, this would include all projects under
implementation and preparation. This was proposed in view of rapidly increasing inflation in the
country (exceeding 20%). Eligibility criteria were now limited to 12% threshold for EIRR in
combination with the cost benefit ratio of 1.10.25 Sub-projects found to be non compliant with the
economic eligibility criteria would be rejected for the pipeline projects.26
Output and Outcome Indicators of sub-projects: The output and outcome indicators was
revisited and revised for easy and measurable data to be able to appropriately assess the project
impact based on "before" and "after" scenario; the development effectiveness of the project and
demonstrate results while providing greater accountability. During November 8-25, 2008
supervision mission, ToRs were developed to outsource the analysis of the output and outcome
monitoring for the portfolio of sub-projects as a stand alone assignment.27 World Bank gave its
"No Objection" in January 2009 and the consultant was hired in June 2009, six months before
project closing date. Assignment was completed before the project closing however the results
were neither analyzed nor synthesized to assess impact by the PMU. The deliverable was not
even shared with the World Bank.28

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)




25
   12% reflects the cost of capital and criteria stated in the PAD, the 1.10 benefit cost ratio was an add-on which
reflected the accrued benefits as a result of the project would be 10% more than the cost/investment of the project.
26
   The World Bank "No Objection" for this assignment was provided in January 2009, the consultant was hired in June
2009, six months before the project closing date. The deliverable was received during September 2009 by the World
Bank. However, the needed quality control was not undertaken.
27
   The objective of this assignment was to calculate empirically the project output for the physical urban upgrading sub-
projects completed and under implementation by the UUHRP, classified by city, neighborhoods and project type. More
specifically to: (a) cumulatively asses empirically the project impact, by project type, by cities, and by neighborhood;
and (b) map the project sites by cities based on the projects, and based on project classification (social, economic and
community Infrastructure).
28
   The output of this assignment was provided to the World Bank at its request in May 2010. At this point in time
analyzing and consolidating the data was a complete activity in itself and therefore has not been undertaken. Summary
tables were not provided by the consultant as part of the deliverable although they were a part of the ToRs.


                                                               8
Project Preparation: The project preparation was in direct response to: (i) the 3rd Five Year
Development Plan (1999/0-2003/4) which gave a prominent role to the housing sector; (ii) 3rd
Housing Development Plan with a major thrust on reforms in the housing sector leading towards
more market based strategies; (iii) the World Bank Interim Strategy Note; and (iv) the World
Bank Housing Sector Strategy Note of June 2002 and the ensuing Action Plan.
Project Design: Project alternatives were duly considered during the design of the project. The
first option focused on dealing with housing and urban upgrading as two separate projects. This
option was mutually rejected by the GoI and the Bank at that time as the linkage between housing
sector reform and urban development was closely inter-related and under the same Ministry ­
MHUD, preparing two projects would have been costly and time consuming. The second option
considered was going with a Specific Investment Loan (SIL), however this was dispensed with as
the approach was seen to be too rigid, limiting opportunities for learning to guide sequencing and
roll-out to other localities in support of the government's broad national decentralization agenda.
It was conceived that the flexibility and longer time frame offered through an APL would allow
gradually internalizing policy reforms and consolidating the institutional settings, approaches and
procedures. For example the pilot urban upgrading and community enabling sub-projects during
the first phase was to be followed by an expansion and diversification on a national scale etc. On
this the QEA7 Panel also expressed its reservation when it stated "Both the overall purpose and
project development objective emphasize development of a market based or market led housing
system. Project design on the other hand, focuses on government led decision, on building
municipal capacities for revenue generation, and on selection criteria based on compliance with
local plans and public rights to land. The panel finds it difficult to see market-led nature of the
project."
Lesson learnt and reflected in project design were mainly: (i) piloting, phasing and sequencing of
reform; (ii) ensuring readiness of the Borrower for implementation; (iii) early involvement of the
main stakeholders; (iii) sustainability of the upgrading component; and (iv) enduring appropriate
procurement environment in Iran.
In reality the design attempted to be ambitious, complex, and over optimistic without the long-
term vision and manageability of the outputs and outcomes. The qualifiers for the assessment of
the project were very subjective and did not crystallize till the project launch. Implementing
urban upgrading in 4 to 5 neighborhoods within each of the 5 target cities went beyond piloting It
is important to note that the major investment of the project was in urban upgrading almost 90%
(almost US$ 90.33 million was targeted on this component) and component on housing reform
component constituted only 3% of the financing (only US$ 3 million) presenting a major
dichotomy between the reform and the investment aspects of the project.
Quality at Entry (QEA): Quality at Entry was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
under the QEA7 process.29 The QAG Panel rated the project as "Moderately Satisfactory" a rating
of `3' 30 on an 8 point scale. 31 Bank Inputs and Processes were also rated as "Moderately
Satisfactory" (3). On the overall judgment the Panel felt that the project would have benefited


29
   QAG assessment date was 07/11/2005. As part of its continuing efforts to help improve operational quality, the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) launched the Seventh Quality-at-Entry Assessment (QEA7). QEA7 which covered a
sample of 125 operations approved by the Board during FY04-05. A first batch of 100 operations approved to date
was sampled on April 4 and the remaining operations were sampled toward the end of June.
30
   Assessment rating of the QEA is as follows:: 1=Highly Satisfactory; 2=Satisfactory; 3=Moderately Satisfactory;
4=Moderately Unsatisfactory; 5=Unsatisfactory; 6=Highly Unsatisfactory; NA=Not Applicable
31
   The QAG 8 point scale comprised of: (i) strategic relevance and approach (2); (ii) technical, financial and economic
aspects (2); (iii) poverty, gender and social development (3); (iv) environmental aspects (2); (v) fiduciary aspects (2);
(vi) policy and institutional aspects (2); (vii) implementation arrangements (3); and (viii) risk assessment (3).


                                                           9
more from critical analysis on: (a) providing a financing plan that included consideration of
recurrent expenditures for service delivery and the sustainability of infrastructure plus an
estimation of cost recovery potential during preparation rather than during implementation; (b)
consideration of a broader range of social issues; (c) development of a more detailed list of risks
and mitigation strategies.
As discussed by the Panel the project contained the following strong aspects: (a) a balanced
approach to the problem of housing and land reforms for the poor; upgrading four informal
settlements with interventions addressing the sector demand and supply issues in a
comprehensive and sequenced manner; (b) use of an APL financing instrument, which while
signaling a commitment to the long-term reform process, at the same time providing an exit
strategy should government's commitment to this process weaken; (c) support of a government-
owned housing action plan developed through an extended consultation process to broaden its
ownership; and, (d) close links to the interim CAS objectives that is consistent with the
Government's Fourth Five-Year Development Plan.
In light of this assessment, the panel also listed factors that would require particular attention of
the project team during the short-medium term to improve the prospects for achieving the
project's development objectives and long-term sustainability: (a) close monitoring of PMU
performance and resolution of incentive issues; (b) development of fuller M&E plan and
collection of baseline data; 32 (c) Follow-up with other line ministries providing services to
upgraded settlements to ensure adequate recurrent financing for planned infrastructure
investments; and, (d) contact with possible donors regarding project developments and areas for
potential support.
The QEA was undertaken approximately 9 months after the loan effectiveness, the finding were
neither flagged during supervision nor discussed during the MTR mission

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The UUHRP project in the amount of US$ 100 million was approved by the Board on May 25,
2004, reached Effectiveness on September 22, 2004, the project closed on December 31, 2009, at
which time disbursement was US$ 51 million.33 Due to low disbursement the project was not able
to deliver fully on its PDO. The project was not extended. There was no request for extension
made by the Borrower, nor did the Bank discuss it.

Trajectory of Project Implementation delays: In April 2005, six months after project
effectiveness, the first implementation problem that was flagged was due to delays in mobilizing
funds for staffing and operational costs 34 and insufficient allocation of counterpart funds for
FY06. 35 As a result, PMU staff resigned, and project implementation stalled for almost nine
months.36 By October/November 2006, these issues had been resolved, however the PMU had to



32
   This was also identified and flagged by the Panel in "Areas Needing Improvement" for the project.
33
   Based on data from World Bank Client Connection..
34
   One of the key action items on the post effectiveness was the signed "Letter of Agreement" between MHUD and
MPO indicating a 5 year operating budget for the PMU.
35
   Only partial allocation of US$ 1.4 million of counterpart funds was made available by the Management and Planning
Organization (MPO) for FY06. Without securing the appropriate counterpart funds, the implementation of the project
pipeline (US$ 16 million) during FY06 would have run into problems.
36
   From April to November, 2005 Disbursement for the project was US$ 0.


                                                        10
be completely re-staffed and trained in procurement and financial management in order to move
forward with project implementation.37 Although project implementation had picked up during
the start of 2006, delays in signing of the Financing Agreement between UDRO and the PMU
continued to loom, as did the high level of staff turnover which continued to impact
implementation and the contract management capacity of the project. These factors largely
contributed to the slow disbursement rate, which was projected to be 6% of the loan amount by
August 2006. July 30, 2006, onwards the World Bank was not able to replenish the project's
Special Account (SA) in Iran.38 The problem with replenishment and SA currency denomination
($ to Euro) was not resolved until October 2007, directly impacting the disbursement and project
implementation momentum. 39 Around late 2006 and early 2007, two project issues were
outstanding, (i) Community Enabling and Municipal Capacity Building component of the project
had not been launched as the project was nearing its Mid Term Review (MTR); and (ii) Hiring of
international consultants remained a challenge under the project thereby seriously limiting the
extent of knowledge transfer, mainly in the area of housing sector reforms and City Development
Strategies (CDS).40 Even 15 months later, around December 2007, the issue regarding hiring of
international consultants was not resolved. 41 To accelerate implementation and increase loan
disbursement two key actions were taken during the latter part of 2007, increased: the Special
Account (SA) Authorized Allocation to Euro 4 million, irrespective of disbursement level
reached; and the prior thresholds for works and consulting services, allowing the procurement of
bigger packages. During 2008, project implementation picked up momentum. In addition, during
2008 and 2009, the project TTL changed twice, resulting in two (2) consecutive transitions for the
project over a 12 month period.42

Project Implementation: As a result, project implemented was affected by the following factors:

Factors outside government or implementing agency control
(i)    Imposition of financial sanctions by the US in dealing with Iran ­ Special Accounts
       (denominated US$ had to be switched to Euro) resulting in replenishment, disbursement
       and implementation delays.
(ii)   Travel restrictions during the last six months of the project; no supervision missions were
       allowed after June 2009 due to civil unrest.

Factors subject to government or implementing agency control
(i)    Counterpart fund delays throughout the project
(ii)   Delays in mobilizing funds for staffing and operational costs



37
   As per the ISR Sequence #4, dated 11/01/2005, almost one year later from the project launch the project had to start
from the beginning.
38
   Reported in the ISR Sequence #6, dated 09/28/2006. Mainly due to UN sanctions, and as a result GoI issued directive
restricting issuance of Letters of Credit (L/Cs) and maintenance of all World Bank Special Accounts (SA) denominated
in US Dollars ($).
39
   This caused severe implementation problems to the Borrower and limited on part of the World Bank to exert any
pressure to expedite project implementation. This problem was not resolved till 12/10/07 (as per ISR Sequence #8).
40
   The Community Enabling and Municipal Capacity Building component was launched during MTR Mission (May
14-June 2, 2007). The second issue of hiring international consultants, in Iran required the prior approval of the Higher
Economic Council and registration of the selected firm with the MPO under the applicable Iranian regulations; both
steps were time-consuming and were not an incentive for the reputable international firms for expressing their interest.
41
   As per ISR Sequence #9, dated 12/10/07
42
   Mr. Sateh El-Arnaout, outgoing TTL left the Bank on a leave of absence and the project was handed over to Mr.
Robert Maurer, incoming TTL in March 2008. In March 2009, Mr. Maurer handed the Iran Portfolio to Ms. Rosanna
Nitti, hand over mission was in May 2009. Ms. Nitti moved to the South Asia region in September, with the project
closing date of 12/30/2009. Ms. Soraya Goya took over as TTL for the ICR stage after project completion.


                                                          11
(iii)    Restriction in hiring of International Firms and Consultants due to Iranian Laws.
(iv)     Unrealistic short execution time estimated for physical urban upgrading work (9-12
         months at the beginning of the project and maximum of 18 months at later stages) with
         no price adjustment clause, combined with high inflation and increasing cost of
         construction resulting in implementation delays on project sites and needed contract
         amendments also requiring additional time.
(v)      Incomplete design (as standard basic designs of the relevant agencies were used which
         required technical revisions ­ but this was mostly done after the contract award which
         resulted in large amendment and cost runs.43
(vi)     Procurement delays.
(vii)    High staff turnover.
(viii)   Delays in pushing the ToRs to hiring the consultant and initiating work, especially in the
         case of Municipal Capacity Building, Community Enabling Program, Output Indicators,
         Retroactive Economic Analysis, and CDS.
(ix)     Delays in resolving project and contract problems i.e. in the case of Kermanshah due
         contractual issues on the project site by the Contractor. The PMU was not able to resolve
         the issue for 18 months and work remained suspended in Kermanshah during that time.44
(x)      Due to procedural differences, at the beginning of the project, there were difficulties in
         allocating loan funds from the budget to the implementing agency.

Factors subject to World Bank
(i)    TTL transition of the project resulted in lapses in some aspects of the project.
(ii)   Project mission teams were not adequately staffed given the demands of the project; as a
       result some components of the project were multi tasked by one project team member,
       and some component were not staffed by the appropriate specialist for supervising that
       particular component.
(iii)  Extensive delays in responding to "No Objections" for the implementation of sub-
       projects and components, mainly due to the project transition or to the fact that issuing
       "No Objections" was not delegated in timely manner (especially for housing and
       community enabling sub-components).
(iv)   Supervision teams were not fully staffed to undertake supervision of all components of
       the project even though budget was available, and only one mission was being
       undertaken each year on the project.

Mid-term Review: The Mid-Term Review (MTR) mission for the project took place from May 14
­ June 2, 2007.45 As of May 2007, the project commitments and disbursements stood at 23% and
10% respectively.46 Following a period of high staff turn-over and political transition in 2005 and
2006, both the Borrower and the project team showed sign of commitment in achieving the
Project Development Objectives (PDOs). The project was now well integrated within the



43
   This was prior to expanding the technical and oversight capacity of the implementing unit at the PMU.
44
   As per the Supervision Mission AM (January 23 ­ February 6, 2008) (this problem was realized during
August/September of 2007 (post the MTR mission)) when the mission discussed the early termination of seven (7)
projects in the city of Kermanshah. Physical progress under these projects ranged from 26% to 69% while disbursement
ranged from 36-87%. The reasons for contract termination included: long delays by the PMU in the selection of project
supervision consultant, deficient design and poor drawing details, delays in obtaining construction permits from the
municipality, payment delays, and increase in the cost of construction material coupled with the absence of a price
adjustment clause in the contracts. These projects were re-tendered. Similar site problems were also recorded in Bandar
Abass.
45
   The MTR was planned for 01/22/07, however it took place 5 months later.
46
   As per the ISR Sequence #7, dated 06/29/07


                                                         12
Government's Institutional structure. All the PMU's staff was funded through the MHUD's
budget and loan financed some Lead Advisors to strengthen the MHUD/PMU team. The
components that were lagging were: (i) Output/Outcome Indicator; (ii) Economic indicators; (iii)
Community Enabling sub-component; and (iv) Municipal Capacity Development sub-component.

Project at Risk Status: Despite a difficult start, the project, institutionally though, is now well
integrated within the Government's structure (MHUD/UDRO) and is becoming the catalyst for an
urban upgrading program in Iran. The project is being replicated by the government in 20 cities
using own funds. However, the risks of not achieving the PDOs, recent changes in the
Government Housing Policy, difficulties in the transfer of project funds to the SA in Tehran and
slow disbursement of the Project remained to be considerable.47 Many factors which proved to be
critical risks were not properly assessed at the onset of the project including the deterioration of
the geo-political situation, prospects for advancing with APL2 and APL3 and the risk of not
achieving the PDOs.

        Risk               Risk Risk Mitigation Measure as per                       ICR Assessment of the
                          Rating           the PAD                                          Risks
From Ouputs to Objective
Lack of sustained             S      Continuing dialogue with the Bank and        Substantial
commitment to financial              IMF on financial sectors reforms
sector reform
Lack of sustained             S      Housing reforms are set as triggers for      Moderate - The risk would be
commitment to housing                APL2 and APL3                                moderate as some of the triggers
sector reforms and slow                                                           were met, however the APL2 was
decision making process                                                           not undertaken
Different approaches         N       Formalization of national upgrading          Low - This is still a low risk option,
within GoI to urban                  policy developed through a participatory     however the urban upgrading
ubgrading                            process                                      strategy of the project has been
                                                                                  scaled up to other cities in Iran
From Component to Outputs
Capacity of participating H          Technical assistance and contract staff      Moderate - Coordination did
municipalities to                    will be provided to strengthen capacities.   happen as a result of the project but
implement the program                Executive Upgrading Committees               was slow.
and coordinate the                   already established at the provincial
various organization                 level have so far contributed to a better
operating at city level              coordination.
Capacity of MHUD to       S          Inter-ministerial steering Committee at      Moderate ­ UDRO, under MHUD
coordinate the project at            the local level headed by Provincial         is leading a national urban
the national (with MOI,              Deputy Governor                              upgrading program
CBI, MPO) and the                    Compensation from MHUD and MPO to
local levels                         appoint qualified staff at adequate
(municipalities,                     compensation to manage the project
provinces, service                   Funds provided under the project for
agencies)                            training of the project management staff
Incompatible GoI and      S          This issue is currently being addressed      Moderate ­ problem was capacity
Bank procurement                     by the Bank with the government.             and training in following Bank
procedures                           During the interim period and until          procurement procedure and not the
                                     agreement is reached with the GoI,           procedures itself.
                                     satisfactory procurement arrangement
                                     have been agreed. Progress was made
                                     on procurement procedures for
                                     consultants.



47
   At Project closing (12/31/09), loan disbursement was only 31% (of project financing) and 39% of Project loan
amount (This amount stood at 41% (of project financing) and 51% of Project loan on 05/25/10 from Client Connection
Data). The PDO for the project was not achieved (noted this way in the ICR Sequence # 12, dated 12/25/09).


                                                        13
Overall Risk Rating            S                                                                 M
Risk Rating ­ H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)

Supervision Missions: On average only one supervision mission was undertaken each year to
Iran, during the core implementation phase of the project, with the exception of the first year of
implementation (see Annex 11). It is not clear what the reasons were for the project team to do
so; however the budget as noted in Annex 1 was amply provided. One difficulty was the length of
time needed to process visa requests which would require planning at least 6 weeks in advance.
Later in the life of the project, mission travel to Iran was suspended from mid-June 2009,
following civil unrest that occurred in response to the national elections. As a result, no
supervision mission was undertaken prior to project closing date. This impacted the Bank team's
ability to supervise the project amidst TTL transition and jeopardized the ability to perform the
needed due-diligence on the fiduciary and technical aspects of the project before closing.
Moreover, it was not also possible to undertake the mission required for the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and its subsequent dissemination to the counterparts.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The discussion on Project M&E under this project includes: (i) Key Project Indicators (including
project Outputs and Outcome Indicators), (ii) APL2 Triggers, and (iii) Output and Outcome
indicators for the sub-projects. The performance indicators are part of the Loan Agreement ­
Schedule 7, which collectively combined them under: (i) Outcome/Impact Indicators and (ii)
Output Indicators. It is important to note that the collective indicators were not appropriately
reflected, reported or subsequently changed in World Bank system therefore what is reported at
the start of this document does not comprehensively cover all the indicators. A monitoring
framework was not in place at the start of the project nor was a baseline established for the
project before project initiation.

Key Project Indicators - Output and Outcome Indicators for the project: The matrix for the key
project indicators is provided in Annex 2. It should be noted that the matrix is vague, does not
have any base line or methodology regarded the data to be collected has been provided. For
instance, in order to measure the increase in the level of satisfaction of households with their
living conditions in upgraded settlement, the indicator is the increased community sense of
inclusion and civic sense which is difficult to capture and compare across five cities. The main
issue is the appropriateness of the indicators based on the scope of the project to measure the
impact of the project, to reflect an appropriate and meaningful baseline, and the findings of the
project. For the outcome, the measurability of the indicators was weak, the methodology and
scale was not provided and baseline did not exist. As a result, the output and outcome of the
project incorporating the key project indicators is not measurable for the project (see Annex 2, for
detail).

APL2 Triggers: As seen from the table below the indicators are subjective and the whole thrust
of the next phase is based on non measurable indicators with neither baseline nor appropriate
method of gauging the success of each indicator, but more toward a "yes" and "no" framework.
This issue was flagged during the Supervision Mission (Nov 9-25, 2008) when it was clear that
the possibility of pursuing APL2 seemed limited. Judging that the project outcomes are based on
the APL2 triggers which can be inconclusive for assessing the overall impact of the project (when
90% of the project financing was targeted toward urban upgrading). This aspect was not
reassessed by the World Bank before loan closing, due to project TTL transition.

APL2 Triggers Framework:


                                                         14
                             Triggers                                                       Status
 1. The Member Country has established an integrated urban             At the central level, the integrated urban
 upgrading budget at the national level                               upgrading budget to be established in next year's
                                                                      budget. This too has been done.
                                                                       At the local level, the integrated urban
                                                                      upgrading budget is now established in the
                                                                      Municipality of Zahedan.
 2. The Member Country has established a transparent system,           Ongoing
 satisfactory to the Bank, to release public land systematically
 and in response to market demand for urban expansion in at
 least (3) participating cities.
 3. The Member Country has established the basis for fair              Ongoing
 competition for commercial housing finance operations among
 all banking institutions in terms of legal, regulatory and subsidy
 framework.
 4. The Member Country has put in place a system, satisfactory        - Well advanced
 to the Bank, to assess, monitor and manage risks associated
 with loan-linked housing savings schemes.
 5. The Member Country has established a public information            Ongoing
 system, satisfactory to the Bank, covering land markets,
 housing markets and housing subsidies
 6. The Member Country has put in place a direct, well targeted        Ongoing
 and explicitly budgeted demandside housing subsidy
 instruments satisfactory to the Bank.

Output and Outcome of the sub-project: The output and outcome of the sub-project is elaborated
upon under section 3.2 and Annex 2, however the impact of the outcomes of the sub-project could
not be assessed fully and remains too weak to reach affirmative conclusion.48

M&E Implementation: Overall M&E implementation for this project was weak. This aspect of
the project was not integrated appropriately into the planning and preparation activity of the
project, despite being repeatedly flagged in the AM, ISR's, and QEA7. To start with the project
did not have a comprehensive monitoring/results framework in place, different units at the PMU
did not know what indicator data was needed to be collected and reported upon on a regular basis.
This problem did not get resolved until the end of the project. The Performance Indicators tables
were only updated during missions, the last update available on the project is from the January 23
­ February 6, 2008 supervision mission. The updating of the M&E was not a part of the Quarter
Progress Report (QPR); as a result this item was also not followed through due to project TTL
transition. In addition, the PMU was not appropriately staffed with part time/full time staff to
assess the M&E component of the project. This component fell between two units at the PMU,
the preparation and the planning team. However, the units did not have skill sets or the staffing
capacity to undertake the M&E for the project. Moreover, M&E with a focus on sub-component
was addressed in a targeted manner only during and after the MTR mission.

M&E Utilization M&E utilization for the project was very low. On the output and outcome
indicators of subprojects, data collected on sub-project types during missions helped reduced the
number of types of project that were being built (from 19 types reduced to 14 types). Just a minor
indicator if monitoring was undertaken effectively for the project the information collected on
indicators could have been used appropriately for decision making on project activities. On the
Output and Outcome indicators of the sub-project, initially it was decided that PMU would
monitor progress but was not successful due to the lack of staff/skill capacity. Finally ToRs were


48
  Output indicators of the sub-projects were shared by the PMU after the closing date of the project and therefore the
result were not analyzed.


                                                           15
drafted for an individual consultant to prepare the analysis, however the contracting process took
more than 15 months. In the last year of the project the consultant was hired to undertake this task
and the PMU did not communicate the output of this activity to World Bank before the closing
date of the project. Therefore, there is no way to indicate the overall outcome of subprojects for
this project, but outputs are provided in section 3.2 below and in Annex 2..49

In conclusion, this sub-component was one of the weakest links of the project for many reasons:
(i) the methodology was not clear; (ii) the scope of measurability was questionable (iii) the base-
line were not established on the onset of the project; (iv) when required this component was not
restructured in alignment with the revised project focus and in due time before the closing; (v) no
dedicated team member at the PMU was taking a lead on this aspect of the project; and (vi) the
template was not regularly updated to monitor progress of the performance indicators/triggers etc.
As a result, M&E of the project does not comprehensively and effectively is able to report on the
results of the outputs and outcome of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environmental Safeguards: According to the PAD the project had been classified as Category B
based on the Bank's Operational Policy 4.01 Annex C on Environmental Assessment. EMP was
already prepared and approved by the time of project appraisal for Bandar Abbas, Kermanshah
and Zahedan. Environmental Safeguards monitoring was instituted as part of the supervision
consultant contract. By the project closing all the EMP's for Bandar Abbas, Zahedan, Sanandaj,
and Kermanshah were done, whereas, Tabriz was under preparation. In project design,
Environmental Safeguards was a part of the eligibility criteria, according to which the sub-project
will have no environmental impact or limited impact for which all the necessary preventive
measures are envisaged within the EMP framework. The Environmental Safeguards of the project
was managed satisfactorily and the unit was appropriately staffed.

Social Safeguards: The Social Safeguards was also a part of the eligibility criteria for the sub-
component A - sub-projects selection, according to which there will be no land expropriation or
involuntary resettlement (OP 4.12) of economic activities or residents residing in the project area
to secure proper management and the sustainability of the built facility and would serve as
prerequisite for sub-project financing. Social Safeguards monitoring was also instituted as part of
the supervision consultant contract. Social safeguard was satisfactorily compliant to the project
demand.

Financial Management and Disbursement: The financial management arrangement of the
project responded adequately to the project needs and the financial report and the FMR were
being generated satisfactorily. The project staffing also continued to adequately respond to the
project needs. The project suffered from disbursement lag for many reasons identified in detail
under section 2.2, however at the project closing disbursement of the project reached
approximately US$ 51 million50 and commitment of the project was at US$ 78 million. The issue
of mobilizing the projects counterpart funding at the beginning of the Iranian year was always a


49
   The analysis of the outcomes received after the closing date was not done. The results were requested from the PMU
and were received during the grace period of the project. Output indicates the number of schools built whereas outcome
measures the no children attending the school as a result.
50
   US$ 41 million was disbursement from Bank Loan Amount on 05/25/10 which is 80% of the financing so based
US$ 100 million; disbursement would be 20% more in the amount of approximately US$ 51 million.


                                                         16
recurring problem and every year the amendment to the current year's framework agreement was
necessary to secure budget allocation for the project, and this had to be done every year for the
project. After a rough start the relationship between the financial management unit and office of
the financial controller's was streamlined. The Audit report was also submitted to the Bank on
time and usually had minor qualifications; however, one audit report has still not been received
by the Bank to date.

Procurement: The overall rating of the procurement during the project cycle is rated to be
Moderately Satisfactory. Although the capacity of the Procurement unit improved significantly
however there were lapses and delays in pushing packages through, moreover, a realistic
procurement and disbursement projection was not conceived in order to better reflect the actual
timeline for implementation under the various project components. However, marked
improvement was observed in the level of coordination between the Strategic, Technical and
Procurement units and the overall capacity of the teams over the project term. On project closing
Commitment was at US$ 78 million (78% of the project financing), 182 contracts, and this was
progress accomplished over a period of 2.5/3 years of project implementation.

Procurement plan was well maintained and had improved over time but some deficiencies
remained: update on the latest status of each contract; updates on progress rates for each sub
project, and separately monitoring physical versus financial progress rates; adding remarks on
reasons for termination and/or cancellation of contracts; keeping the record of all the packages in
the plan including the cancelled ones; providing explanations on reasons for drastic cost estimate
changes, if any; name of contractors, consultants, suppliers was not consistently recorded; sub
project current status was not reported and updated in the procurement plan.

In addition some other problems that the procurement team faced during the course of the project
included:51 (i) procurement team capacity issues; (ii) filing and documentation issues during the
early stages of the project; (iii) unrealistic estimate of time and cost of packages; (iv) limited due
diligence to check the completeness of the package prior to bidding; (v) staffing issues; (vi) lack
of ownership of the procurement plan, and as a result limited coordination, especially at the
beginning of the project; (vii) coordination between respective units across PMU and target cities;
and (viii) resistance in pursuing the selection of international consultants.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

This project was designed as an Adaptable Project Loan (APL), comprising of three (3) tranches
spanning over a period of twelve (12) years. APL1 closed on December 31, 2009. The PMU was
committed to achieving the Project Development Objective (PDO) of the project, in this spirit
they keenly wanted the project extension, however the Borrower did not formally request an
extension on the project.52

The PMU has been reduced to skeleton staff, post the project closing date. UDRO will undertake
the implementation of the committed remaining urban upgrading work in the five cities of Iran,


51
  Section elaborated with footnotes under Annex 10.
52
  Project extensions had been requested for three other projects (BAM, EERP and Environment); only EERP was
extended by 6 months.


                                                   17
the budget and finance, has already been assigned by UDRO for this activity, using its own staff
capacity for implementation. The housing reform agenda under the project is being taken over by
the National Land and Housing Organization (NLHO), under the MHUD. However, with the
Government change, the priorities have also shifted on housing policy. Nevertheless some of the
findings of the studies are already being implemented while others are still being discussed. A
number of TORs for studies that had been developed by PMU-TUB but were never implemented
have already been given to consultants of the overseeing departments at MHUD. The portfolio of
work under the Municipal Capacity Development sub-component has been handed over to
Municipalities Organization (MO) to be taken forward.

The PMU with its acquired capacity will form a private company that will continue to provide
technical support for the implementation of urban upgrading work that will be undertaken by the
Municipalities53 and UDRO nationally.54 Some PMU staff has also been absorbed by UDRO. 55
However, a formal post completion operation plan was not provided by the PMU to the World
Bank.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objective of improving the living conditions in under-serviced neighborhoods and prepare the
systems, capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiate the market based housing sector reforms
in the context of Iran may still very well be relevant in view that both the 5th National
Development Plan includes a focus on Urban Upgrading and Informal Settlements, and the
launch of the new National Housing Program. Moreover, on the urban upgrading, the
strengthening of the National Enabling Task Force under UDRO, at the central level,
establishment of the integrated urban upgrading budget for scaling up to 20 other cities in Iran, at
the local level, establishment of integrated urban upgrading budget for the Municipality of
Zahedan are all indicative of the priority being placed on this agenda.

On the Housing Sector Reform, the market was seen to be very volatile and especially in view of
inflation was more than 25% in 2008 and market based interest rates was over +30% p.a. during
2004-07.56 In sum this alludes to a need to reassess the housing agenda based on current political
thrust of the extensive national/social housing program proposed by the President and the impact,
if any on the market based housing supply to gauge if the proposed housing reform strategy is
still feasible.


Implementation Completion Report (ICR): Since no ICR mission was authorized due to travel
restrictions put in place following the June 2009 civil unrest, the ICR team had to rely on Bank
documentation. This situation has resulted in the need to reconstruct events related to changes in
the project using available documentation and in consultation with project team members and


53
   As per the Supervision AM ­ January 23- February 6, 2008 ­ the mission team was informed of the decision by the
Municipality of Zahedan to dedicate a budget line for the upgrading of informal settlements in the city.
54
   Staff capacity of PMU was 35 headcount in December, prior to Project closing.
55
   Based on the Author's phone meeting with Mr. Azhdari on 05/25/09.
56
   The combination of inflationary expectations, rapid growth of liquidity in the banking system and the limited choice
of investment vehicles have led to a concentration of investment in real estate, fuelling strong price increases.


                                                         18
CMU staff. As a result, according to the last procurement plan we received from the client - 12
(13%) sub-projects were completed. However, more recent information from the client indicates
that 46% (43 of 92) of sub-projects have been completed.



3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The achievement of the PDOs is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. As already discussed above,
since the project did not reach full completion before closing it is very difficult to assess the
impacts and the achievements of the PDOs retrospectively; however, a rudimentary attempt is
being made here to gauge the successes of PDOs based on the activity/component/sub-component
associated with the PDOs and the subsequent commitment and disbursement estimates.
Nonetheless, as the project did not completely disburse the loan amount/project financing and it
did not lead to the APL2, it may be fair to say that the PDO 1 and 2 was not achieved fully, and
as a result the impact assessment and achievement of the overall PDOs for the project remains
weak.

Overall, the project was able to disburse 58.78% as of the finalization of this ICR and including
the 6 month grace period for disbursements following the closing date, of December 31, 2009.

PDO 1: Improve the living conditions in under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five provincial
capital cities;

Under this PDO there was three (3) key sub-components: (i) Urban Upgrading, (ii) Community
Enabling, and (iii) Municipal Capacity Development. Overall 90% (US$ 90.33 million) of the
project financing was allocated to this component at appraisal, at project closing the commitment
on this component was 83% (US$ 75 million), as overall disbursement was approximately 51%,
and 65% as a share of commitment, this component disbursed approximately US$ 49 million
(approximately 54% of the allocation to this component).

(i)      Urban Upgrading ­ The total number of physical urban upgrading sub-projects that the
project implemented under this sub-component was ninety-two (92) at a total cost of US$ 66.4957
million. Seventy seven (77) physical urban upgrading sub-projects (equivalent to US$ 51.63
million) are currently under implementation in all the five cities of Bandar Abbas, Kermanshah,
Zahedan, Sanandaj, and Tabriz, and twelve (12) (equivalent to US$ 11.73 million) have been
completed and handed over to the respective Ministries. Another three (3) physical sub-projects
(equivalent to US$ 3.13 million) are planned to be launched soon in all the five cities (For more
detail, see table below and Annex 2). 58




57
     Also includes 3 projects in the pipeline.

58
     Based on portfolio analysis during supervision mission (May 1 ­ 13, 2009) ­ partially updated till the closing date.


                                                             19
        ii)_
Project Information 
based on Current               All              Bandar Abbas            Zahedan             Kermanshah              Sanandaj                Tabriz 
Status of the           (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent) 
Portfolio 
Projects Under                                      14 
                       77(84%)/US$ 51.63                            8 (50%)/US$ 6.33        29 / US$ 13.85        15 / US $13.32        11 / US$ 7.81 
Implementation                                (67%)/US$ 10.32 
Projects in the 
                         3 (3%)/US$ 3.13      2(10%)/US$ 2.95        1(6%)/US$ 0.18           0 / US$ 0             0 / US$ 0             0 / US$ 0 
Pipeline 
Projects Completed     12(13%)/US$ 11.73      5(24%)/US$ 4.25       7 (44%)/US$ 7.48          0 / US$ 0             0 / US$ 0             0 / US$ 0 
Total Number of 
                          92 / US$ 66.49        21/US$ 17.52          16 / US$ 13.99        29 / US$ 13.85        15 / US$ 13.32        11 / US$ 7.81 
Projects 
 


        Commitment and Disbursement ­ the largest allocation, almost 78% of this component
        (US$ 90.33 million) was allocated to Urban Upgrading (approximately US$ 78.3 million) at
        appraisal. At project closing the commitment on this sub-component was 93% (US$ 72.6 million),
        as overall disbursement was approximately 51%, and 65% as a share of commitment, this
        component disbursed approximately US$ 47 million (approximately 60% of the allocation to
        this component).

        Types of Projects (Under Implementation and Completed) ­ Based on the portfolio analysis of
        the physical infrastructure sub-projects: almost 48% of the sub-projects and 58% of the
        investments has been for economic infrastructure projects; 59 followed by social infrastructure
        projects, where almost 33% of sub-projects and 27% of investments; 60 and finally with
        community infrastructure projects comprising 20% of the sub-projects and 15% of the
        investment.61 In sum, the major thrust of the urban upgrading component for the project has been
        towards economic infrastructure both in terms of sub-projects and investments (See Annex 2 for
        more detail on portfolio analysis and outputs of the project investment).

        Another focus that has been observed in the physical infrastructure upgrading portfolio analysis is
        that the majority of the sub-projects, almost 67% was new construction, accounting for 64% of
        the investment (62 sub-projects/ approximately US$ 42.55 million); followed by rehabilitation
        project comprising of 29% of the sub-projects and 34% of the investment (27 sub-
        project/approximately US$ 22.61); and only 3% of the sub-project were expansion of current
        facilities which comprised 2% in investments (3 sub-projects/approximately US$ 1.33 million)
        (See Annex 2 for more detail on portfolio analysis and outputs of the project investment).
        Twelve sub-projects (12) were completed under this sub-component before the closing of the
        project; these were mostly in the two cities of Zahedan and Bandar Abbass. In total the completed
        sub-projects included 7 schools, 1 health center, 2 canal construction; and 2 road upgrading
        projects (details on types of project under implementation is provided under Annex 2). The
        completed projects were classified under social and economic infrastructure, none of the project
        under community infrastructure completed during project time frame.


        59
           Economic Infrastructure projects includes: Canal / Khoor / Floodways, Sidewalk, Drainage Network, Bridge
        Construction, Roads, Water and Sewerage Network, Street Lighting and Electrical Networks.
        60
           Social Infrastructure projects include: Health Center, Schools and Training Facilities.
        61
           Community Infrastructure projects include: Park, Sports Complex, Sports Field, Community Center, Library, Youth
        Development Center/Development Training Center, Multi-Purpose Hall, Cultural and Arts Center/Cultural Educational
        Center/Cultural Development Center/Culture House, Disabled Rehabilitation Center, Child House/Children's
        Playground, Bazaar, Cultural/Sports Hall.


                                                                    20
Beneficiary Impact/ Output and Outcome Indicators of the Sub-Project: As per the PAD the
Social Impact Assessment (SIA) was supposed to be undertaken in target cities and
neighborhoods to establish baseline against which the impact of urban upgrading activities would
have been measured at the end of the project. However, the project did not conduct a Social
Impact Assessment and baselines were not available to measure targeting and impact of the
project. Instead a Social Assessment (SA), which was more qualitative in nature and did not lend
itself to establishing baselines and measuring impacts, was undertaken by the project.
Although the project invested heavily in physical infrastructure/sub-projects, rigorous monitoring
had lagged. The monitoring of the output and outcome indicators for the sub-project was flagged
since the MTR mission (mid 2007), ), it was planned that this would be done in house by the
PMU planning team, and was instituted to be part of the sub-project approval process for project
eligibility. This issue was again flagged during January 23-February 6, 2008 supervision mission
that the project lacked the rigorous output monitoring mechanisms. Simplified forms were
developed and output indicators documentation for each project was made contingent for project
approval by the World Bank. This was never exercised; due to weak capacity, PMU was not able
to undertake this task or deliver on it. During November 2008 mission that ToRs for undertaking
output monitoring and mapping for all sub-project types in all cities/neighborhoods was finalized
as an independent assignment.62 The consultant was hired in June 2009, six month before the
closing of the project. The assignment was delivered sometime close to the project closing, it was
not shared with the World Bank and neither was it analyzed and distilled at the PMU level.63
As a result, beneficiary impact of the project cannot be assessed. Output has been partially dealt
with in the form of number and types of sub-projects above however, impact and targeting is not
measurable is any systematic way for the project. Outcome of the project cannot be assessed as
there are no baselines to compare against and more so, as all the physical infrastructure sub-
projects did not complete by the project closing date to be able to measure outcomes.

(ii)    Community Enabling - Overall 6% (US$ 6 million) of the project financing was
allocated to this sub-component under the urban upgrading component at appraisal, at project
closing the commitment on this sub-component was 37% (US$ 2.2 million), as overall
disbursement of the project was 51%, and 65% as a share of commitment, this sub-component
disbursed approximately US$ 1.43 million (approximately only 24% of the allocation to this
component).
The component also started late in the project implementation cycle, was only launched during
the MTR mission (mid 2007). The sub-component focus was on the implementation of socio-
economic community activities along three thematic tracks, namely: (i) livelihood and
entrepreneurship; (ii) vulnerable groups; and (iii) community based social activities. Eleven (11)
activities along these thematic tracks were under implementation, however none of the activities
were completed and therefore the findings cannot be qualified.
This sub-component also suffered extensively in implementation delays mainly due to: the
limited experience of the PMU in the subject matter at both nationals and local levels;
constraining procurement procedure preventing the use of NGOs and conflicting interpretations


62
   The objective of this assignment was to calculate empirically the project output for the physical projects completed
and under implementation by the UUHRP projects by city, neighborhoods and project type. (a) Cumulatively asses
empirically the project impact, by project type, by cities, and by neighborhood and to (b) to map the project sites by
cities based on the projects, and based on project classification (Social, Economic and Community Infrastructure).
63
   The output of this assignment was provided to the World Bank at its request in May 2010. At this point in time
analyzing the data and consolidating the data was complete activity in itself and has not been undertaken, as summary
tables were not provided which were part of the ToRs.


                                                         21
on how this component should be implemented; moving the ToRs to procurement of consulting
services, finding the right consultant/consultancy to undertake the assignment, limited staff
capacity at the PMU level which improved as the sub-component progressed, delays in
responding to "Request for No Objection" from the World Bank side, weak supervision,
importance of putting institutional setting in place at the local level for enabling projects also
caused delays, no exposure to international experience in the enabling unit, lack of experience in
enabling activities with local consultants, lack of adequate local staffing in the target cities which
was the key link to the local communities etc.
The Community Enabling facilitated building the social capital to undertake urban upgrading at
the national level. The biggest accomplishment/achievement of the Community Enabling sub-
component was in securing a budget line in UDRO's budget for undertaking enabling activities
nationally. Five contract under this budget line was also currently under implementation. Social
Assessment ­ a qualitative assessment for all the five target cities was also completed under this
sub-component. All sub-projects from the beginning of 2008 responded to the findings of the
Social Assessment (SA), which is an important milestone for this sub-component. However, due
to a late start the component did not get the full chance of reaching fruition.
Based on the discussion above, achievements under this component are noted. However, the
outputs and outcomes are very tangible and difficult to qualify or quantify.

(iii)    Municipal Capacity Development - Overall 6% (US$ 6 million) of the project
financing was allocated to this sub-component under the urban upgrading component at appraisal,
at project closing the commitment on this sub-component was only 4% (US$ 0.22 million), as
overall disbursement of the project was 51%, and 65% as a share of commitment, this sub-
component disbursed approximately US$ 0.14 million (approximately only 2% of the allocation
to this component).
Although many things were planned under this sub-component, however, implementation was
significantly delayed and supervision remained weak. It was also very late during project
implementation that a designated person was hired to lead this task.64 As a result, the Municipal
Capacity Development was one of the weakest aspects of the project and was not able to deliver
much based on the vision of the component. Municipal Capacity Development component was
essentially aligned around four (4) priority areas, mainly: (i) institutional frameworks; (ii)
municipal finance; (iii) human resource management; and (iv) management practices and tools.65
This framework for the component was only finalized during November 2008 mission, almost
one year before the project closing. Another task that was undertaken under this component was
"Training Needs Assessment and Design of Training Programs." The study has been completed
and delivered to the Municipalities Organization (MO), which is being fully utilized for the
provision of specific trainings in various municipalities and is considered a great achievement.
It is also not clear what really got accomplished under this sub-component by the project closing
date. However two key items did get initiated and are worth mentioning: (i) for familiarizing this
component to the local officials and stakeholders a workshop was held in Sanandaj, with the plan
of holding it in all target cities; and (ii) the relationship with Municipalities Organization (MO)
was strengthened, leading to renewed and heightened interest of the stakeholders toward this
component, as a result.




64
     Maybe around mid 2008 a designated person was hired.
65
     Under these priority areas different tasks were planned around themes.


                                                            22
Based on the discussion above, it is very difficult to qualitatively or quantitatively assess the
outcomes or the achievements under this component.
Overall: In conclusion, based on the discussion above on the 3 sub-components under this PDO,
it maybe very difficult to say qualitatively or based on quantitative data that the activities resulted
in improvement or improved the living conditions in under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five
provincial capital cities. However, what can be said, but cannot be qualified due to lack of
baseline data and post analysis to really substantiate improvement in the living conditions, is that
the activities under the PDO initiated the process of improvement of the living conditions in
under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five provincial capital cities as only 12 projects, only 13%
based on the project pipeline of 92 projects were completed in 2 cities of Bandar Abbass (5
completed) and Zahedan (7 completed).
The success of this PDO can only observed outside the activities under this PDO, in the form of
creation of new orientation towards informal settlements and institutions at the public level to
take the urban upgrading agenda forward in Iran (elaborated briefly under Sector 3.5 and 3.6).
PDO 2: Prepare the systems, capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiate the market based
housing sector reforms. Under this PDO there is only one (1) key component ­ housing sector
reform under which there were four (4) sub-components: (i) land management and urban
planning; (ii) housing finance; (iii) housing subsidies; and (iv) housing and construction
information system. Overall 3% (US$ 3 million) of the project financing was allocated to this
sub-component at appraisal, at project closing the commitment on this sub-component was 59%
(US$ 1.78 million), as overall disbursement was 51%, %, and 65% as a share of commitment, this
component disbursed approximately US$ 1.16 million (approximately 39% of the allocation to
this component).
To start with it is very difficult to encapsulate the impact of reform or the achievement of the
outcomes of the reform agenda in the short term. Secondly, the framework was not clear against
which the success of this component would be gauged and finally, on a checklist this component
mainly undertook studies and analytical work. Some of the key achievements of this component
are briefly highlighted below (for detail, please see table in Annex 2):
(i)      Revised building codes and standards for housing construction that address earthquake
and affordability concerns ­ was delivered- however its impact remains uncertain given a lack of
buy-in from MHUD (in particular regarding the restructuring the Ministry) (OIPM).66
(ii)     Introduction of systems for market responsive supply of public land- of the 2 planned
studies, only one study has been completed, while the other one is in the pipeline. The pilot study
on land market of Esfahan and Langeroud only partially answers the questions defined in the
ToRs and in particular lacks the housing market analysis (OINM).67
(iii)    Housing Finance ­ this comprised of three parts: (i) Risk Management Tool used for
Savings for Housing Schemes ­ the study has been complete and the necessary framework has
been developed and adopted by Bank Maskan (OIM);68 and (ii) Assessment of housing finance
system and evaluation of impact of existing regulations, a report completed, resulted in few
operational recommendations, has a satisfactory buy-in with Ministry of Housing (OIM);69 and
(iii) Establishing a system for fair competition for housing finance operations in banking
institutions ­ currently 5 banks, including two private banks are offering housing loans to the



66
   Output Indicator Partially Met
67
   Output Indicator Not Met
68
   Output Indicator Met
69
   Ibid


                                                  23
public (OIPM).70
(iv)    Housing Subsidies ­ this comprised of two parts: (i) evaluation of housing finance and
land subsidies ­ all housing subsidies paid under Maskan-e-Mehr program is properly
documented, however it has not been scaled up nationally (OIPM)71 and (ii) design of a new
housing subsidy system ­ the study to develop instruments for targeted demand side subsidies has
been carried, however they have not been approved yet (OINM).72
(v)     Housing Information System ­ housing and land information systems has been developed,
and is currently being tested before streamlining public access to it (OIPM).73
Overall: In conclusion, based on the discussion above on the 4 sub-components under this PDO,
it maybe very difficult to say conclusively with a qualifier or based on quantitative data that the
outcome of preparing the systems, capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiating the market
based housing sector reforms has been accomplished under the project. However, what can be
said, with reservation, however, is that the activities under the PDO has initiated the process of
preparing the systems, capacity, and regulatory foundation and initiating the market based
housing sector reforms under the project, with little progress.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Economic Analysis: The project was designed to be demand driven and that recipient
cities/neighborhoods would determine the nature and scope of each sub-project. Therefore,
according to the PAD the economic rate of return was supposed to be calculated for each sub-
project ex-ante. The criterion established was a cost benefit analysis74 to be carried out for each
upgrading sub-projects, demonstrating a positive NPV and an ERR equal or above the
opportunity cost of capital estimated at 12%.75 This became a part of the eligibility criteria for the
selection of sub-projects. The economic analysis of the sub-project pipeline was done at the
feasibility stage of the project. An audit of the compliance was undertaken during November
2008 mission and findings are illustrated in the table below. In conclusion, it seemed that 59% of
the projects were only compliant to the ERR criterion, and 41% were not this may very well be
that the methodology or the assumption made were not correct. It may very well also be due to
the cost assumptions made for the sub-project which had changed significantly from feasibility to
bidding and then to actual contracting, reason being the rapidly increasing inflation in the country
(exceeding 20%) and the cost of construction, as a result. The criteria was revisited and based on
how the information was calculated it was suggested that as long as the sub-project had an
ERR=12% and benefit cost ratio=1.1076 it would be eligible. Therefore, it was proposed that the
Borrower retroactively undertakes the ex-ante economic analysis of all sub-projects in the
portfolio (completed, under implementation, and in the pipeline) using current costs as noted in
the procurement plan. This was proposed during 2008, by the time it was implemented it was
2009 and the outcome of this task were not evaluated before the closing of the project by the
project team.



70
   Output Indicator Partially Met
71
   Output Indicator Partially Met
72
   Output Indicator Not Met
73
   Output Indicator Partially Met
74
   For all sub-project with total project of costs more that US$ 100,000 and above, except projects with non-
quantifiable benefits.
75
   This was consistent with recently Bank approved projects and is above the current real interest on long term deposits.
76
   Implying that the benefits were atleast 10% more than the costs.


                                                          24
                                      ECONOMIC PROJECT ELIGIBILITY COMPLIANCE  
                                            (As per November 2008 AM) 
                                                               Projects under 
                                       Total  Number         implementation/Co         Projects in the        Economic Criteria 
                                         of Projects              mpleted                 Pipeline              Compliance1 
                  Kermanshah                  30                  100% (30)                 0% (0)                 73% (22) 
                     Sanandaj                 13                   46% (6)                 54% (7)                 100% (13) 
                     Zahedan                  16                   88% (14)                12% (2)                  25% (4) 
                 Bandar Abbas                 22                   82% (18)                18% (4)                  33% (5) 
                        Tabriz                11                    0% (0)                100% (11)                91% (10) 
                           All              92                   74% (68)               26% (24)                  59% (54) 
1
     Economic Criteria Compliance include meeting ERR equal or greater that 12% and Benefit Cost Ratio equal or greater that 1.10.
                                                                     
The outputs provided by the consultant have been summarized below; all the sub-projects in the
portfolio reassessed based on the economic analysis are compliant. The methodology provided by
the consultant was also assessed, however clarifications could not be sought as the assignment
was delivered in August 2009. Bank team did not provide inputs or play an active role when the
draft was provided due to project TTL transition. The consultant methodology and assumptions
are recording in the project files for reference.

Some distinct anomalies are noted below in the methodology and may require qualifiers or
iterations:

- Project costs were provided to the consultant in US$, it is not clear how these cost were
converted to Iranian Rials (IRR) and what parity conversion rate was used, assumption has not
been stated.
- The factor used for converting financial costs to economic costs is very inflated at 0.96 and not
referenced to a source to establish its validity,77 Iran is a highly subsidized economy, and most
important of which are those that are related to energy, it was recommended in the methodology
provided to the Borrower on Economic Analysis that "according to the International Energy
Studies Institute of Iran figures, 78 a factor of 1/3 is appropriate for converting financial to
economic prices." This reference could have been revisited for an update.
- Another distinct anomaly for education project is that the asset life is taken to be 50 years,
although after the 27th year O&M costs have been omitted and only benefit have been accrued
until the 50th year. No explanation for this has been provided.
- Different scenario's have been noted in text but not assessed as scenarios for weighing the
economic choice.
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     


77
   Economic prices and rates are used in cost and benefit assessment. This means that financial prices set for the
impacts of tax, subsidies and external impacts on building materials and labor. In the other type, economic costs are
estimated by standard factors: 0.962 for financial costs, 0.819 for skilled labor and 0.745 for common labor. In this type,
taxes are eliminated from financial prices.
78
   "Impact of Energy Subsidies on Economic Issues," 1998.


                                                                  25
                                    ECONOMIC PROJECT ELIGIBILITY COMPLIANCE  
                                               (As of May 2009) 
                                                           Projects under 
                                     Total  Number       Implementation/Co          Projects in the        Economic Criteria 
                                       of Projects            mpleted                  Pipeline              Compliance1 
                Kermanshah                 29                  100% (29)                 0% (0)                 100% (29) 
                   Sanandaj                15                  100% (15)                 0% (0)                 87%(13)79 
                   Zahedan                 16                   94% (15)                 6% (1)                 100% (16) 
               Bandar Abbas                21                   90% (19)                10% (2)                 100% (21) 
                      Tabriz               11                  100% (11)                 0% (0)                 100% (11) 
                         All             92                   97% (89)                3% (3)                   98% (90) 
1
  Economic Criteria Compliance include meeting ERR equal or greater that 12% and Benefit Cost Ratio equal or greater that 1.10.

Based on the above, outcome of the economic analysis cannot be validated, as no ICR mission
was undertaken, therefore the above analysis may very well be inconclusive.
Financial Analysis: Financial analysis was required according to the PAD for investments to: (i)
ensure the municipality or responsible agency's ability to cover operating and maintenance
expense of the additional infrastructure sub-projects; and (ii) to ensure that the fiscal impact of
the additional investment funding on their budget is small (4.5%-5% of annual capital
expenditure) for sub-projects that were: (i) under the direct responsibility of the municipality;80
and (ii) in health, education, and water and sewerage (see Table under Section 1.7 above). It was
envisaged that for all the infrastructure investments, the responsibility for operating and
maintenance (O&M) will be transferred to the respective utilities or ministries, for which a formal
letter of handover and O&M acceptance was requested. De facto, this became a part of the
eligibility criteria for the selection of the sub-projects, where the ministries provided a MOU
letter accepting the O&M of the asset, thereby circumventing the actual financial analysis.
Therefore, no financial analysis for the sustainability of the project was undertaken for the sub-
projects.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Based on the discussion provided under Section 3.2 and 3.3, and collectively as the project
outcomes cannot be verified or substantiated in view that baselines were established for the
project the overall outcome is rated as Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts: Due to the nature of the project, inevitably one would assume that poverty
reduction would be a spill-over effect of a project targeting urban upgrading, municipal capacity
building, community enabling and housing reform. In reality it may very well be so, that the
project did result in poverty reduction due to job creation in the construction industry, technical
capacity gains, etc. However, the status and scale of poverty in target neighborhoods and cities
should have been documented for the project/cities/neighborhoods through the Social Impact



79
     In the portfolio for two of the project the ERR was not calculated
80
     In the case of this project all the sub-project were under different Ministries


                                                               26
Assessment (SIA), which was not undertaken. As a result, the project is silent on the poverty
impacts, as it cannot be qualified.
Gender Aspects: Women were identified as part of specialized access to services among the
vulnerable groups for this project. The community enabling sub-component was designed to give
priority to sub-projects directly benefiting women e.g handicraft, vocational and self-
employment skills etc. The impact of this cannot be gauged as the community enabling projects
did not reach completion.
Social Development: Social Development was a key thrust both for community enabling and
urban upgrading work under this project during design. A rapid social assessment was done
during project preparation and the results were used to identify target neighborhoods/stakeholders
and formulating priority investments. It was planned that as a follow-up a more in-depth baseline
social impact assessment would be undertaken in all participating cities, including assessments of
the needs of the population potentially benefiting from the project. This would include household
surveys and thematic/focused group discussion, only the latter part was implemented as part of
Social Assessments (SAs) and household surveys were not done. It was perceived during project
design that identification and design of sub-projects will involve potential beneficiaries using
participatory methods in assessment, CBO formation and strengthening. Once again the
consultative design process was not undertaken by the project during implementation and latter
part was implemented through the larger community enabling program under the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The main responsibility of implementing the project rested with PMU, which was centrally
located in Tehran, it was supported by project representatives in the target cities. The capacity of
the PMU increased substantially from the beginning of the project to the end in being able to
process urban upgrading projects from the start to the finish. PMU and the respective teams also
benefited from the training programs, seminars and workshops conducted under the project in
procurement, financial management, environmental management, safeguards etc. This is turn
contributed to strengthening and capacity building not just at the PMU level but also at the
local/provincial level due to the active participation of the project representatives.

The procurement team capacity also increased substantially as initially they were undertaking
very small packages (under US$ 0.5 million), however with the increase in the prior thresholds
the project was able to undertake larger packages and procured packages as a large as US$ 3.47
million. In addition, procurement plan was maintained and updated regularly.

The technical and implementation team benefited extremely from project site supervision, how to
conduct design audits during planning stage, and how to undertake construction audits once
implementation begins to control for site issues, seismic design etc. This is a key capacity that
they will able to use as consultants to UDRO/municipal organizations undertaking urban
upgrading. Finally, the capacity of national and local consulting and supervision engineers and
contractors has been strengthened because of the experience gained from the project.

The enabling team also benefited in terms of capacity and "learning by doing" starting from ToRs,
customizing the ToRs to local conditions and then finding the right people to undertake the
project. This also in turn expanded the capacity of local/national consultants in undertaking
community enabling projects because of the experience gained from the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


                                                27
- Building on the positive experience of the UUHRP and to the strong advocacy by UDRO, the
recently approved 5th National Development Plan includes a focus on Urban Upgrading and
Informal Settlements, and a new National Housing Program.
- Urban Upgrading has been scaled up nationally under UDRO, initially expanding to 20 cities in
Iran.
- The decision by the Municipality of Zahedan to dedicate a budget line for the upgrading of
informal settlements in the city.
- The strengthening of the National Enabling Task Force under UDRO leading to scaling-up of
the enabling program at the national level - the biggest accomplishment/achievement of the
Community Enabling sub-component is securing a budget line in UDRO's budget for undertaking
enabling activities nationally.
- The institutional memory of the project suffered due to project TTL transitions. As a result,
project actions were not carried through, for example, sub-project approval was contingent on
completing the output indicator form developed by the PMU was not exercised; sub-project
approval was also contingent on economic analysis and meeting the criteria for eligibility was
also not exercised; deliverables for projects was not accounted for at the end of the project, for
example, CDS, output indicators, etc.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Stakeholder Workshop: As already noted above, UUHRP has only been able to disburse around
51% of its project loan amount, as a result it has not been able to deliver on the full package of its
planned activities. Furthermore, at present, prospects for the outputs of its housing reform
component are at best uncertain; while those for the institutionalization of an urban upgrading
process and urban upgrading fund, as well as City Development Strategies (CDS) are only slowly
evolving. However, the major positive impact of UUHRP should be best observed outside of its
own subprojects and components; mainly in developing a new orientation toward informal
settlements at various public sector levels in Iran. As a result of UUHRP, a number of institutions
at the national, provincial, and city levels have been created that should ensure major future
activities concerning informal settlements in Iran. Moreover, the informal settlements portfolio
has now attracted major funding from the public budget ensuring the agenda's sustainability in
the short to medium term.
In summary, the main reasons behind UUHRP's lackluster performance may well be summarized
as: UUHRP's complicated initiatives required coordination among a great number of actors; the
novelty of the urban upgrading activities in Iran, which meant that neither UUHRP staff nor
Iranian consulting firms (against the backdrop of limited use of international consultants) nor
Iranian authorities were experienced in delivering or facilitating the Project's outputs (especially
in the case of software initiatives such as enabling, capacity building, and institutionalization, but
also across the subprojects/components/sub-components); major difficulties with payments;
major difficulties in hiring professionals, well-trained personnel; several rounds of change in the
Project management; lack of compatibility of Iranian financial, bidding, and contract regulations
with those of the World Bank; difficulty of delivering Works in informal settlements due to their
nature as well as land acquisition problems; and redirection of priorities on the part of the
Government in the case of the housing reform component (See Annex 5, for detail).
Beneficiary Survey: Project initiatives in the cities have shown some success with regard to
beneficiary satisfaction, participation, and sustainability as demonstrated by the case of Bandar



                                                 28
Abbas 81 probed for the purpose of ICR beneficiary assessment and stakeholder analysis.
Sustainability and participation is seen to be enhanced in areas where interactions between the
Municipality and the residents have been high. Many of the resident priorities have materialized
including better street conditions, surface water drainage and canal rehabilitation, access to
transport services, garbage collection, and green space for families to spend their leisure time.
The project has helped in ending the isolation of the neighborhoods and has increased their
security. However, the scale of intervention, as well as the geographical outreach and substantive
scope of the initiatives on urban upgrading has been limited. The neighborhoods are still in need
of services that are supposed to be provided by the unfinished initiatives as well as those not
planned or not within geographical coverage. Community mobilization activities, interactions
between the community and service agencies, and other enabling initiatives have been promising
(e.g. Municipality-resident interactions, neighborhood mayor, microfinance groups, etc.). Yet,
they have not been adequate in number and coverage to leave a lasting impact. Nor have the
enabling activities created the theoretically-desired synergy with the physical improvement
initiatives. They nonetheless have set a number of good examples on which to build further
efforts (See Annex 6, for detail).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The project is now well integrated within the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
(MHUD) and the urban upgrading process under the project is being replicated by the GoI using
own funds to scale up the project to 20 other cities of Iran. As the project did not fully disburse, ,
and as the project closing date was not extended the full impact of the Project Development
Objective (PDO) was not realized. Moreover, the project was not able to hire International
consultants, limiting the extent of knowledge transfer under the project. Sustainability and
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the physical works in the upgrading component is not a
problem as the assets were returned to the respective Ministries and they are responsible for its
management over the life of the asset. The PMU capacity, acquired over the term of the project,
although intact has become fragmented, creating a private company to provide consulting
services to UDRO and Municipalities but the sustainability is a question for its survival over
medium and long term. However, the major positive impact of UUHRP should best be observed
outside of its own subprojects and components; mainly in developing a new orientation toward
informal settlements at various public sector levels in Iran, creating public institutions targeting
urban upgrading, and public budget allocation ensuring sustainability in the short to medium term.
The rating is Moderate because of all the above stated reasons.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank's performance during preparation is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The design of
the project, though pitched as pilot, was not in any way designed as a pilot project, it was spread


81
     Impact cannot be generalized as Bandar Abbas is the most advanced in implementation.


                                                          29
laterally (no of cities (5)/neighborhoods (more than 15)) as well as vertically (components/sub-
component). In retrospect, it seems that APL may not have been the best lending instrument and a
leap on the part of the project team especially in the context of Iran when the relationship
between the Client and the Bank was intermittent, whereas APL requires a long-term
commitment and a steady relationship for success. Moreover, the urban upgrading sub-project
selection was not stream-lined and its subsequent sequencing was not very well thought through.
The scope and scale of the overall project was ambitious, complex and a bit overwhelming
(especially for the Client), compounded by a weak monitoring results over arching framework
coupled with lack of establishment of baseline for the project was a major shortcoming that has
seriously hampered the assessment of the project's impact. Although it is duly acknowledged that
the project's scale and scope may very well have been in vogue at the time the project was
prepared,the onus of factoring in all the aspects of a comprehensive design rests with project team
which appropriately responds to the Client needs.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Bank's performance during implementation is rated as Unsatisfactory. The initial two years
of the implementation of the project was dedicated to getting the project staffed and started and
then re-staffed and started again. The latter part of the project was spent in catching up on the lost
time during the initial years and expediting implementation, initially based on increasing
commitments and then disbursements on the project.
Supervisions teams responded pragmatically to implementation challenges. Although on one
hand it supported capacity building in designing, procurement, implementing and auditing urban
upgrading works and following through on the housing reform agenda. On the other hand, TTL
transitions resulted in loosing sight of some key issues on the project, accompanied by delayed
response to sub-component/sub-project "No Objections" which triggered delays and as a result,
due-diligence on the project aspects became weak. Some of the sub-components of the project got
a late start and still lagged due to weak supervision, for example community enabling and
municipal capacity building. This all was compounded by a weak output and outcome monitoring
system for the project to start with, no overarching monitoring results framework was in place for
the project, and no baselines resulted in weak assessment of the project impacts at completion.
The focus until the very end of the project remained on physical implementation rather than
modifying or restructuring or redesigning output and outcome results framework to reduce and be
able to better measure the impacts of the project. A more critical analysis of the implementation
scope of the sub-components, reduction in the size of the project financing, and restructuring the
project was warranted during the life of the project, was considered but not undertaken.
The Bank team reported the need to restructure the project during the MTR mission however;
there was a lack of response from Bank management in the ISRs regarding restructuring and team
was not proactive enough to seek specific management guidance on this topic. Moreover, project
had started gaining momentum after the MTR. Commitment levels were growing as part of the
agreed set of actions set forth in AM between the Bank and the PMU. The Bank team at that point
was wary that a restructuring of the project would upset the complex balance of institutional
arrangements. However, this approach should have been discussed and agreed with input from
the Management. It should be noted that there was a transition in TTLs and almost 9 months of
vacancy at the Sector Manager position during this time provided a big vacuum for the project.
The supervision of the project remained weak, both in terms of frequency of travel and following
up with the counterpart on a regular basis, though more in the latter part of project



                                                   30
implementation, this was mainly due to the frequency of project/TTL transition due to which
supervision suffered (during 2008 and 2009, the project TTL changed twice, resulting in two (2)
consecutive transitions for the project over a 12 month period). As a result, many items that
should have been undertaken during the life of the project fell through the cracks i.e. economic
project compliance, follow-up on the project deliverable (economic analysis and output and
outcome indicators for the sub-project), giving the needed and timely feedback to the counterparts
on the ToRs, commenting on the QPR's etc. Although the supervision team's ability to devote
more time to frequent and lengthier field visits to project sites during mission was constrained by
time needed to get visa authorization for Iran, lengthy travel times between different parts of the
country, and difficultly in getting travel reservation if the trips were not planned well in advance.
Mission travel was infrequent, even though Bank budget allocation for supervision was sufficient;
the trip to target cities was even less frequent, as all cities could not be covered during one
mission. Supervision teams were only able to visit the target cities once and at the most twice
during the project cycle which made it difficult to physically audit, and get sufficient and timely
information on the implementation progress (Kermanshah and Bandar Abbass where projects
were stalled for around 18 months) and identify and resolve problematic sites. The project team
was also not able to visit Sanandaj during the project term to undertake audit of the ongoing
physical urban upgrading sub-projects. Although there were two local consultants assigned to the
PMU, it proved not to be a very effective mechanism as the channel of communication was weak,
more so, due to project transition and as a result it was not able to strengthen supervision too
much. It seems that the budget allocation for supervision mission was sufficient.
Nonetheless, it should be noted that the Bank team worked closely with the PMU, and
supervision missions were intensive, helping the counterparts build capacity and supporting them
through implementation. As a result, project implementation showed a significant improvement
from 2007 onwards till project closing, increasing from 7% to 41% of the loan amount; however
this was not sufficient to make a case that the projects and its component were supervised
adequately.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

As already discussed above, the project struggled from the start, some hurdles were beyond the
scope of the project, and some however could have been effectively addressed during design and
implementation of the project and were warranted, however they were not dealt with during the
life of the project. Therefore, based on the Bank's performance during lending and
implementation, the overall Bank Performance is rated as Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as Unsatisfactory. The project performance was
adversely impacted by the lack of timely availability of counterpart funding and recurrent delays
in mobilizing funds for staffing and operational cost of the Project Management Unit (PMU)
which resulted in protracted delays during project implementation. As a result, during project
initiation phase all the trained PMU staff resigned from their respective positions and the project
came to a complete halt for a period of 6-8 months. It took the project some time to re-staff the
PMU and initiate the momentum for moving on with the implementation of the project.
Subsequently this pushed the project into more than 18 months of lag time. Moreover, the timely
availability of counterpart funds was also observed as a recurring problem for the project as at the


                                                 31
beginning of each Iranian year the agreement had to be resigned before the counterpart funding
could be assigned which inevitably triggered delays. The Government on their end did not make a
concerted effort to resolve this recurring problem.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Implementing Agency's performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Much has been
discussed in the text above on the performance and issues faced during project implementation.
The biggest issue faced by the implementing agency was the capacity which required a great deal
of support, and this somehow had a key role to play in: implementations lags; sitting on site
problems and not communicating to the World Bank to take the necessary action; procurement
plan not reflecting the actual scenario of the portfolio; weak technical capacity and staff issues;
delays in pushing the ToRs to hiring the consultant and initiating work, especially noted due to
slow implementation of sub-component on Municipal Capacity Building and Community
Enabling Program Output Indicators, Retroactive Economic Analysis, and CDS; and weak
monitoring project-wide.

However, what does weigh in heavily in this rating and is duly acknowledged is that crippled
with all the shortcomings and constraints, the PMU made a very concerted attempt at
implementation, increasing commitments and subsequently disbursement, marked with strong
effective progression and kept this momentum going until the closing of the project
(Implementation Progress (IP) at the time of project closing was also rated as Moderately
Satisfactory). As a result, project loan disbursement increased from 7% at the end of 2006 to 41%
in 3 years until the loan closing.82

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As already discussed above, project performance was triggered to a bad start for the project due
to initial delay in counterpart financing and funding for the PMU staff, this in itself pushed the
project implementation back by almost 18 months, if not more. Moreover, although the PMU in
earnest tried to catch up on the time lost but they had to concurrently deal with the implications of
the imposed UN sanctions on the country and its consequences on the project and their own
capacity limitations to effectively undertake project implementation.

Based on the Government and Implementing agencies performance as discussed above, the
overall Borrower Performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Overall:
Simple Project Design: In project design there is a need to be sensitive to the institutional
capacity of the country. If it lies on the lower end of the spectrum, complex or ambitious project



82
  Would equal 9% in 2006 and 51% at loan closing (based on data from World Bank Client Connection from 05/25/10
­ based on the grace period) of project financing in the amount US$ 100 million.


                                                      32
design will not be feasible within that context as the learning curve maybe too steep. The design
of the project, in the case of UUHRP, was extremely ambitious and complex with weak linkages
between triggers which were entirely based on the reform agenda versus the actual thrust of
project investments which was geared towards urban upgrading. Moreover, in the case of
UUHRP the project design was at one time covering too many facets of urban development under
a single project, targeting in five (5) towns in Iran, each covering 3-4 neighborhoods, was really
stretching the capacity of the PMU to deliver. This was coupled with 14 types of sub-projects, a
community enabling sub-component, a municipal development sub-component, and a housing
sector reforms component. Given the lack of adequate and prior experience of the Bank in the
urban sector in Iran, the project design complexity was compounded by low disbursement, SA
replenishment issues, counterpart financing delays, supervision gaps, etc. Finally, for projects that
are complex or ambitious the Quality at Entry (QEA) should proceed only if there is a minimum
rating of Satisfactory to serve as a strong endorsement of the project design.

In sum, the project team should have taken the time to design the project taking into consideration
the capacity constraints and understanding of the project by the Client. The aspect of supply
driven design especially for client such as Iran should have been considered and undertaken.
Clearly, this project included all the things that were in vogue at that time when the project was
being prepared: APL, participation, policy and investment etc. It was also apparent that the policy
content was considered secondary to the investment; however, the project was not pitched this
way.

Systems in place are not effective if not exercised, especially for problematic projects in the
portfolio: Institutionally Bank wide there are systems in place to detect and act on problematic
projects in the portfolio, such as UUHRP. However, as illustrated through example in the case of
UUHRP management action was not exercised to provide guidance or support to the project
team. This was mainly due to the management vacuum at the Urban Unit at the time UUHRP was
struggling through its implementation phase.

Project design needs to be more targeted to better assess project impacts: Project design needs
to be creative and follow the principle "less is more," especially in the case of an APL which
provides the opportunity to test the water rather than implementing a full designed program from
the start. In the case of UUHRP, there were too many components/sub-components spread across
5 far flung cities of Iran, which went well beyond the scope of a pilot program. The project would
have done better if there had been fewer cities with suitable measurement mechanisms which
informed on the progress of the pilots and allowed for adjustments accordingly. In the same spirit,
QEA7 also recommended that wider set of economic and social issues should be analyzed in the
preparation of upgrading settlement projects like UUHRP, e.g., poverty impact, sustainability,
cost-effectiveness of alternative approaches, gender, etc. this could have only happened if the
project was more targeted in design.

Project should be restructured, if required in a timely manner: It is important to asses the need
to restructure the project earlier rather than later. If the extenuating circumstances of the project
justify a full or partial restructuring, or a loan amount cancellation, reducing or omitting the scope
of component/sub-component, action should be pursued effectively by the project team in a
timely manner. In the case of UUHRP commitment was used as a proxy for gauging
implementation progress from the MTR mission onwards, however, there were extensive lags in
disbursements for the project so essentially the project components were not moving, in addition
two sub-components (Community Enabling and Municipal Development) were only initiated
during the MTR mission, M&E of the project was also weak, all signs alluding towards
restructuring the project.



                                                 33
In the case of UUHRP, considering the complexity of the design and slow implementation
progress it was intuitive that the project should have been restructured (preferably at the time of
the MTR). This option was considered but not acted upon. UUHRP experience illustrates that two
key aspect play a critical role in moving ahead with restructuring the project, the first is the
institutional dynamics in place at the project level and second is the support from the
management on this agenda. On the former, at the UUHRP level a very intricate institutional
framework was in place comprising of multiple agencies at the local and national level as
partners. Within this context restructuring would have disrupted this precarious balance of
coexistence within the institutional arrangements. Restructuring could have gone either way;
however it would surely have modified the state of play of institutions and certainly have further
reduced implementation performance. Under the circumstances it was more effective to continue
working with what was somehow moving rather than re-discuss the project basic parameters in an
environment where the Bank had a limited understanding of the players' underlying motivation.
On the latter, if there had been timely management support on the restructuring of the project, it is
more likely that some action would have been exercised. However, a transition in TTLs and
almost 9 months of vacancy at the Sector Manager position during this time provided a
management vacuum for the project. As a result status quo was maintained.

Being prepared when there is an unstable client country relationship: It is important that the
Bank understands and serves the Client's needs when there has been little previous interaction by
preparing upfront capacity building on Bank's processes and procedures. In the context of
interrupted engagement, projects arising should be designed to be modular and requiring less
interdependence between components, with a simple design anddeliberate and thoughtful
preparation. There should be a shortened project horizon rather than components/projects which
require a long, steady relationship as in the case of Housing Reforms under an APL.

Loan proceeds should finance the Project Management Unit (PMU) costs: The project faced
major difficulties and delays in salary payments to its staff as they were financed through the
Government. In retrospect, it would have been prudent to allocate a specific project budget line
for the Project Management Unit (PMU) costs from the loan proceeds rather then having it as a
counterpart agency commitment, especially in the context of a borrower, such as Iran. In addition,
due to government budget restrictions and employment practices, the project was not able to
attract qualified candidates due to restriction on salary thresholds and the hiring procedures in
place.

Implementation:
Institutional Arrangement: This is a pivotal aspect for any project implementation; therefore it is
important to keep in mind how the project was planned, how it materialized during
implementation, including if all the planned staffing has been appropriately covered and if
adjustments are to be made during implementation or in response to the changing project needs.
Whatever the case may be, the project needs to adequately respond to these institutional demands.
UUHRP had to deal with the institutional issues at two levels; firstly the institutional structure as
conceptualized during the PAD stage was not what it was at the project closing or during
implementation; and secondly, some of the key staff positions were either not staffed, staffed but
not with the right skill sets and finally staffed very late during implementation.83



83
  TUA was supposed to report to UDRO and TUB was supposed to report to National Land and Housing Organization
(NLHO). In the end the TUA and TUB all were housed under the PMU. Also, the M&E staff position remained vacant
(or if it was staffed it was by a less skilled person) full cycle of the project and was not flagged in any of the


                                                       34
Project transition should be managed appropriately in difficult project situation: TTL
transitions impact project implementation, and if implementation of the project is already
struggling, more attention should be given to ensuring continuity and smooth hand-over.84

Project Ownership is critical for the success of the project: Ownership of the project at different
levels determines the success of the implementation and reforms under the project. For example,
when the project started it had the needed buy-in at the top most tier of the government, while the
PMU level required time to build this ownership which eventually materialized as genuine
commitment and willingness on part of the counterpart agency to complete the project. More
importantly, project ownership at management level of the implementation agency provides the
needed commitment to resolve project issues in a timely manner. This level of project ownership
is critical for the success of the project.

Supervision missions are important: In countries such as Iran, that had started implementing
World Bank projects after a gap of several years, counterparts were not familiar with the Bank
processes and procedures, and required diligent supervision and a high level of support. This
project was the first in the Urban Sector and ambitiously geared towards reforms. On average
missions were intensive and running up to 3 weeks and entailing site visits which involved
traveling nationally. Moreover, some components were not supervised on a regular basis e.g.
municipal development and it can be seen from the commitment and disbursement on this
component was small.85 Supervision is what really matters in the projects because that is when
and where problems get solved, in turn building capacity of the implementing agency. Most
importantly, project supervision can not just be abandoned in a difficult country situation. The
Bank team, and more importantly Bank management, must be supportive of finding alternative
supervision arrangements and not giving up.

Vigilance during and implementation and capacity building thrust: For projects like UUHRP,
in countries where uncertainty is inherently a part of the day to days tasks, the task team and the
CMU should be vigilant about problems and complications as they arise understand that there is a
collective responsibility for delivering on the lending without losing sight of consistency, quality
and motivation for projects to succeed in difficult environments.

Much more effort should have been placed on capacity building and on institutionalizing of the
activities from the initial stages of the project. One of the reasons for the slow implementation of
UUHRP was the novelty of the project's activities in Iran. This meant that neither the UUHRP
staff nor the Iranian Authorities were experienced in delivering or facilitating the delivery of the
project's outputs (especially in the case of soft initiatives such enabling, capacity building, and
institutionalization, but also across the subprojects). In retrospect, much more efforts should have
been placed on training UUHRP personnel and in bringing on board the project the diverse
number of stakeholders. Moreover, with limited international consulting services provided to the
project, much effort should also have been placed on familiarizing Iranian consultants with the
initiative.

Monitoring and Evaluation:



supervision missions. Also, Municipal Capacity Building component was staffed very late during the project
implementation.
84
   Transition of TTL's inevitably results in loss of continuity and intuitional memory for a project, as a result, certain
outstanding items that are being monitored lapse.
85
   Commitment was around 4%, disbursement probably much less approximately at 2%. The total budget for this
component was US$ 6 million.


                                                           35
Monitoring and evaluation plans and collection of baseline data should be in place for projects
by appraisal.86 Especially for projects that are complex, like UUHRP, having an M&E plan in
place and collection of baseline data instituted during the design phase of the project is critical.
The project operated without an overarching monitoring and evaluation plan, which resulted in
long delays as quality issues were not addressed properly or in a timely manner. The
methodology for measuring the triggers and the indicators should have been clearly outlined,
UUHRP suffered as a result. Project baselines were not established, accompanied by an inherent
disconnect on the measurability of the indicators and how the baselines were established/not
established. In addition, in a project where monitoring and evaluation (M&E) includes, key
indicators, output and outcome indicators and triggers, a designate officer within the PMU should
be institutionally in charge of this agenda.

Results Monitoring Framework Plan should be in place. In projects with such complicated
design scope, it is important to have clear results monitoring framework in place at the onset of
the project. This would outlay the methodology, time frame, source of data, baseline, qualitatative
and quantitative data to be collected in a matrix and measurable format. Also, it is necessary to
evaluate the project's performance against this results monitoring framework plan on a regular
basis, whereas, commitment and disbursement though important, should not be the only proxy for
gauging the project's performance. Moreover, due attention should also be given to training staff
and senior management on the value of indicators in the implementation of the project.

Indicators should be measurable and meaningful: The value added of indicators is only if they
are meaningful, measurable and adequate to track project performance. Indicators should be
designed keeping in mind the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. In the case of
UUHRP, for example project outcome indicator was "Increase in service coverage and improved
access to basic infrastructure services in upgraded settlements in each of the five participating
cities," whereas the measurable outcome indicator were: (i) capitalization of improved service
access in housing values; and (ii) better access of essential urban services to targeted
neighborhood. However, the method and scale to measure the indicators was not defined making
the outcome indicators subjective, the thresholds and baselines were not established thereby
raising more questions, as a result, then answering. Also, the distinction between output and
outcome for the project should also be clearly made, output is objective (i.e. how many school
built) whereas outcome is more longer term (i.e. how many children are attending school, as a
result).

Qualitative Assessment is also important for projects that are multi-faceted: Qualitative
assessments are important for project that are cross-sectoral, multi-dimensional and that have
built in community enabling component, in the form of social assessment or social impact
assessment. However, they should be an integral part of the results framework and should be
clear how this data will be used. In the case of the UUHRP it remained a stand alone exercise and
outputs and outcomes from it were only used to design the community enabling component
programs, however, that was not the objective during the design of the project. Moreover while
social assessment were conducted in all the 5 target cities information was essentially collected at
the scale of large settlements, whereas, for project intervention it is often more meaningful for
date to be collected at the sub-neighborhood level. The project thus faced difficulties during
strategy development for intervention effectively at the sub-neighborhood level. This issue should
have been addressed early on in the project.



86
     Also identified by QAG Quality at Entry (QEA7)


                                                      36
Procurement
Some key learning on the issues was as follows:

-   Importance of team building at early stages of the project should be capital that the PMU
    builds upon.

-   All relevant actors should be involved on the processes and procedures to follow even before
    project loan becomes effective. This includes the Financial Controller whose objections
    resulted in lack of payments especially to PMU members for the project. Moreover, Iranian
    bidding and contract procedures are also not fully compatible with those of the World Bank
    and these issues should be resolved upfront.

-   The PMU staff should have a general understanding of fiduciary requirements of the project
    and this training needs to be continued when there is a large staff turnover. In hindsight
    Iranian financial procedures are not compatible with those of the World Bank, which was also
    a major cause of delays for payments to contractors working on the sub-projects. More effort
    should be exerted to streamline the Project's disbursement procedures.

-   PMU staff teams must be appointed and trained before project commencement (or should be
    as a condition for commencement) to prevent delays due to the need to follow Bank
    procurement procedures. Procurement packages could start small for the learning and then
    thresholds should be increased so implementation pace can be expedited.

-   Procurement team should actively engage with all the respective teams in the PMU i.e.
    planning, preparation, and implementation; to have realistic procurement pipeline so that the
    level of ownership of the procurement plan is PMU wide.

-   Agreement should have been reached during negotiations with the counterpart on the hiring
    of international consultants on the project.

-   Procurement packages should be complete in designs in advance of bidding, essentially to
    avoid substantial variations. Also, having realistic cost and time estimates and preparing the
    contracts accordingly so contracts adjustments are not undertaken frequently but on a case by
    case basis.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Summary of PMU's comments is attached in Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable (NA)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not Applicable (NA)




                                               37
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest  Actual/Latest
                                        Revised during
                            Appraisal                  Estimate (based Estimate (based
                                        Launch Mission                                  Percentage
     Components           Estimate (USD                on commitment)        on
                                        Estimate (USD                                  of Appraisal
                             millions)                  (USD millions) disbursement)
                                           millions)
                                                                       (USD millions)
Component A: Urban
                                  89.62           90.33           75.00          37.74        42%
Upgrading
  Sub-component A-1                8.60            8.75            6.06           3.38        39%
  Sub-component A-2               78.61           79.13           68.78          34.36        43%
  Sub-component A-3                2.00            2.05            0.00           0.00         0%
  Sub-component A-4                0.40            0.40            0.17           0.00         0%
Component B: Housing
                                   3.00               3.00          1.78             1.39     46%
Sector Reforms
  Sub-component B-1                0.50               0.90          0.67             0.52     58%
  Sub-component B-2                1.50               0.90          0.49             0.41     46%
  Sub-component B-3                0.50               0.90          0.36             0.30     33%
  Sub-component B-4                0.50               0.30          0.25             0.17     57%
Component C: Project
                                   2.00               3.00          0.72             0.37     12%
Management
%Unallocated                       4.58               2.87                           0.00      0%
Front-end-fee                      0.80               0.40          0.40             0.40    100%
(b) Financing
       Total Financing
                                  100.00         100.00             77.9         43.17        43%
            Required

                                                             Actual/Latest Actual/Latest
                                                 Appraisal     Estimate      Estimate
                                   Type of Co-   Estimate      (based on    (based on Percentage of
        Source of Funds
                                    financing     (USD       commitment) disbursement) Appraisal
                                                 millions)       (USD         (USD
                                                                millions)    millions)
Borrower                                           20.00        15.58        8.63           43%
IBRD                                               80.00        62.32        34.54          43%




                                                 38
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                              PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                             
    Project Information based on                     All             Bandar Abbas             Zahedan                Kermanshah              Sanandaj                Tabriz 
    Current Status of the Portfolio            (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)        (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent)    (Projects/Percent) 

         Projects Under Implementation            77 / 84%               14 / 67%              8 / 50%                 29 / 100%             15 / 100%             11 / 100% 
         Projects in the Pipeline                   3 / 3%               2 / 10%                1 / 6%                    0 / 0%              0 / 0%%                 0 / 0% 
         Projects Completed                       12 / 13%               5 / 24%               7 / 44%                    0 / 0%                0 / 0%                0 / 0% 
         Total Number of Projects                92 / 100%              21 / 100%            16 / 100%                 29 / 100%             15 / 100%             11 / 100% 
     
    As per May 2009                                                                                                                                                        
    Project Information based on                     All             Bandar Abbas             Zahedan                Kermanshah              Sanandaj                Tabriz
                                               (Projects/Cost in      (Projects/Cost in    (Projects/Cost in         (Projects/Cost in     (Projects/Cost in     (Projects/Cost in 
    Thematic Group                               US$ million)           US$ million)         US$ million)              US$ million)          US$ million)          US$ million)

    Under Implementation1                       83 / $ 57.25          19 / $ 14.57         15 / $ 13.81              29 / $ 13.85          11 / $ 11.71            9 / $ 3.32 
          Economic Infrastructure2               51% / 59%             63% / 72%             40% / 57%                 52% / 45%             82% / 78%              0% / 0% 
          Social Infrastructure3                 34% / 28%             26% / 15%             53% / 36%                 21% / 25%             18% / 22%             78% / 79% 
          Community Infrastructure4              16% / 13%             11% / 13%              7% / 6%                  28% / 31%              0% / 0%              22% / 21% 
    Pipeline                                     9 / $ 9.23             2 / $ 2.95           1 / $ 0.18                  0 / $ 0             4 / $ 1.61            2 / $ 4.49 
          Economic Infrastructure                22% / 49%               0% / 0%              0% / 0%                   0% / 0%               0% / 0%            100% / 100% 
          Social Infrastructure                  22% / 24%             50% / 60%              0% / 0%                   0% / 0%              25% / 27%              0% / 0% 
          Community Infrastructure               56% / 27%             50% / 40%           100% / 100%                  0% / 0%              75% / 73%              0% / 0% 
    All Projects                                92 / $ 66.49          21 / $ 17.52         16 / $ 13.99              29 / $ 13.85          15 / $ 13.32           11 / $ 7.81 
          Economic Infrastructure                48% / 58%             57% / 60%             38% / 57%                 52% / 45%             60% / 69%             18% / 57% 
          Social Infrastructure                  33% / 27%             29% / 23%             50% / 36%                 21% / 25%             20% / 23%             64% / 33% 
          Community Infrastructure               20% / 15%             14% / 17%              13% / 7%                 28% / 31%              20% / 9%              18% / 9% 
     

    1 Includes completed projects.  
    2 Economic Infrastructure projects includes: Canal / Khoor / Floodways, Sidewalk, Drainage Network, Bridge Construction, Roads, Water and Sewerage 
    Network, Street Lighting and Electrical Networks. 
    3 Social Infrastructure projects include: Health Center, Schools and Training Facilities. 

    4  Community  Infrastructure  projects  include:  Park,  Sports  Complex,  Sports  Field,  Community  Center,  Library,  Youth  Development  Center/Development 

    Training  Center,  MultiPurpose  Hall,  Cultural  and  Arts  Center/Cultural  Educational  Center/Cultural  Development  Center/Culture  House,  Disabled 
    Rehabilitation Center, Child House/Children's Playground, Bazaar, Cultural/Sports Hall. 




                                                                          39
As per May 2009 
                                                                                                                                                                      Tabriz
Projects Status based on Type of                   All             Bandar Abbas             Zahedan               Kermanshah                  Sanandaj 
                                                                                                                                                                    (Projects/ Cost 
                                             (Projects/ Cost in    (Projects/ Cost in     (Projects/ Cost in      (Projects/ Cost in        (Projects/ Cost in 
Projects                                       US$ million)          US$ million)           US$ million)            US$ million)              US$ million) 
                                                                                                                                                                          in 
                                                                                                                                                                     US$ million)

Under Implementation1                          83 / $ 57.25         19 / $ 14.57          15 / $ 13.81            29 / $ 13.85              11 / $ 11.71            9 / $ 3.32 
      New Construction                         65% / 63%             63% / 59%              60% / 42%               76% / 87%                 64% / 68%             44% / 43% 
      Rehabilitation                            31% / 36%            37% / 41%              40% / 58%               24% / 13%                 36% / 32%             22% / 24% 
      Expansion                                  4% / 2%              0% / 0%                0% / 0%                   0% / 0%                 0% / 0%              33% / 33% 
Pipeline                                        9 / $ 9.23           2 / $ 2.95             1 / $ 0.18                 0 / $ 0                4 / $ 1.61            2 / $ 4.49 
      New Construction                         89% / 76%           100% / 100%            100% / 100%                  0% / 0%              100% / 100%             50% / 50% 
      Rehabilitation                            11% / 24%             0% / 0%                0% / 0%                   0% / 0%                 0% / 0%              50% / 50% 
      Expansion                                  0% / 0%              0% / 0%                0% / 0%                   0% / 0%                 0% / 0%                0% / 0% 
All Projects                                   92 / $ 66.49         21 / $ 17.52          16 / $ 13.99            29 / $ 13.85              15 / $ 13.32            11 / $ 7.81 
      New Construction                         67% / 64%             67% / 66%              63% / 43%               76% / 87%                 73% / 72%             45% / 47% 
      Rehabilitation                            29% / 34%            33% / 34%              38% / 57%               24% / 13%                 27% / 28%             27% / 39% 
      Expansion                                  3% / 2%              0% / 0%                0% / 0%                   0% / 0%                 0% / 0%              27% / 14% 
 

1    Includes completed projects.  


Sub-project Output by Type:


                                                                                              Bandar
     Type of                                                                                  Abbass            Zahedan        Kermanshah                Sanandaj           Tabriz
     Projects      Social Infrastructure                           Code            All       (C/UI/P)           (C/UI/P)        (C/UI/P)                 (C/UI/P)          (C/UI/P)

                   Pre-school                                       S01          1/2/0                           1/0/0              0/2/0                                      
                   Elementary School                                S02          1/2/1         0/0/1             1/0/0                                                      0/2/0 
                   Guidance School/Secondary School                 S03          5/7/0         3/1/0             2/0/0              0/2/0                 0/3/0             0/1/0 

         1         High School                                      S04          0/1/0            -              0/1/0                                                         
                   Health Center                                    S05          1/6/0         0/1/0             1/2/0              0/2/0                                   0/1/0 
         2         Specialized Health Clinic                        S06                           -                -                                                           
                   Technical and Vocational Training
         3         Center (TVTC)                                    S07          0/2/1         0/0/1             0/1/0              0/1/0                                      
                                                   Sub-total                    8/20/2         3/2/2             5/4/0              0/7/0                 0/3/0             0/4/0 
                   Economic Infrastructure                                            
         4         Canal / Khoor / Floodways                        E01                        2/0/0                                                                           
                   Sidewalks                                        E02                           -                                 0/4/0                                      
                                                                                2/10/0                           0/2/0
                   Drainage Network                                 E03                           -                                 0/4/0                                      
                   Bridge Construction                              E04                           -                                                                            
         5         Roads                                            E05         2/14/0         0/5/0             2/1/0              0/2/0                 0/5/0             0/1/0 
                   Water Network                                    E06                        0/1/0               -                                      0/3/0             0/1/0 
                                                                                0/10/0 
         6         Sewerage Network                                 E07                        0/2/0               -                0/3/0                               

                   Street Lighting                                  E08          0/2/0         0/1/0             0/1/0                                                         
         7         Electrical Networks                              E09          0/4/0         0/1/0               -                0/2/0                 0/1/0                
                                                   Sub-total                    4/40/0         2/10/0            2/4/0             0/15/0                 0/9/0             0/2/0 
                   Community Infrastructure                                           
         8         Park                                             C01          0/3/0         0/1/0               -                0/2/0                                      




                                                                        40
    9       Sports Complex /Sports Field             C02     0/2/0    0/1/0      -                        0/1/0 
   10       Library                                  C03     0/6/0      -        -     0/2/0     0/2/0    0/2/0 
            Youth Development
   11       Center/Development Training Center       C04     0/3/0      -        -     0/1/0     0/1/0    0/1/0 
   12       Multi-Purpose Hall                       C05     0/1/0      -        -     0/1/0                 
            Cultural and Arts Center / Cultural
            Educational Center /Cultural             C06     0/0/1      -      0/0/1                         
   13       Development Center/Culture House
   14       Cultural/Sports Hall                     C07     0/2/0       -       -     0/1/0              0/1/0 
                                         Sub-total          0/17/1     0/2/0   0/0/1   0/7/0     0/3/0    0/5/0 
                                            Total           12/77/3   5/14/2   7/8/1   0/29/0    0/15/0   0/11/0
C=Completed; UI= Under Implementation; P=Pipeline 




                                                       41
Outputs for Component B of the Project:


         Output                   Output indicators                          Progress                      From output to
                                                                                                              objectives
Component B. Housing           1. Formally adopted              1.   The study has been carried out    Process of revision has
Sector Reform                  revised building codes                successfully. The codes in need   been started
Housing        and     land    and standards                         of revision have been
management:                                                          identified. The process of
1.Revised building codes                                             revision is proposed.
and standards for housing                                       2. Task force meetings have been
construction that address                                            held
earthquake              and                                     3. The process of revision has
affordability concerns                                               been started, but due to
                                                                     changes in management in
                                                                     MHUD the process is very
                                                                     slow!
2. Introduced system for       2.      Establishing      and    Two studies have been designed to      The information system
market responsive supply       operating a transparent          carry out this objective. The first    and DSS have been
of public land                 system       for     releasing   study has been carried out. The        established and are
                               public land systematically       second one: "Land Management           currently being tested.
                               and in response to market        Reform Agenda" is in pipeline.
                               demand         for      urban
                               expansion in participating
                               cities.
Housing finance:               3. Adopted necessary             The study has been completed           The          necessary
3. Completed reform of         framework and developed          successfully.                          framework has been
the existing loan linked       asset-liability management                                              developed and adopted
housing savings products       model for assessing and                                                 by Bank Maskan
to reduce liquidity risk and   monitoring liquidity risk
future state contingent        and contingent liabilities
liabilities.                   of      existing      housing
                               savings products (Bank
                               Maskan).
4. Establishing the basis      4.       Eliminate         the   5 banks including 2 private banks
for fair competition for       preferential       regulatory    are offering housing loans to public
housing             finance    treatment        for     Bank
operations for all banking     Maskan for all market
institutions.                  based transactions.

Housing Subsidies              5.            Established        Housing information system has         Since 2008 all the
5. Established system for      information system and           been established and currently is      housing subsidies paid
monitoring and evaluating      data on housing subsidies        being tested                           under    the     project:
housing subsidies- costs,      collected on a regular                                                  Masken-e-Mehr,      have
efficiency,   transparency     basis and reports are                                                   been            properly
and their impact.              produced and publicly                                                   documented and reports
                               disseminated annually.                                                  are produced regularly.
6.           Development       6. Formally approved             The study to develop instruments       The proposed targeted
instruments for demand         instruments for demand           for targeted demand side subsidies     housing subsidy system
side housing subsidies that    side housing subsidies.          has been carried out.                  has not been approved
are explicit, transparent                                                                              yet.
and well targeted.
Housing information            7. System for collecting         Housing and land information           Being tested before
7. Established effective       data and monitoring              systems have been developed            allowing public access to
system for monitoring          national housing and land                                               it.
national housing markets       markets operational.
available to policy makers
and investors




                                                                 42
Project Outcome and Output Indicators

   Project
                                                                                     Mission Date
 Development                                                                                                Project
                           Project Output Indicator                 Baseline         February 6,
  Objective                                                                                              Completion
                                                                                        2008
   (PDOs)
PDO 1: Improve living conditions of the under-serviced neighborhoods in upto five provincial capital cities
Component A: Urban Upgrading
                1. Number of feasibility studies carried-out for
                the preparation of community enabling and urban         3                  5                  5
                upgrading program
                 2. Number of cities where urban upgrading has
                                                                         0                 5                5
                 been carried out in poor neighborhoods
                 3. Number of participating cities where City
                                                                         0                 0                3
                 Development Strategies have been completed
                 4. Number of participating cities where pilot
                 community-led sub-projects have been
                 completed, documented, and disseminated within         0                  0                 5
                 the territorial jurisdiction of the participating
                 municipalities
PDO 2: Prepare the systems, capacity and the regulatory foundation and initiate market based housing sector reforms
Component B: Housing Reform
(a) Housing and 1. Formally adopted building codes and                 N/A         Key reforms             Yes
Land             standards                                                         actions being
Management                                                                         implemented
                 2. Established a transparent system, satisfactory      0                  0                 3
                 to the Bank to release public land systematically
                 and in response to the market demand for urban
                 expansion in at least 3 participating cities
                 3. Eliminated the preferential regulatory            2 (1)          6 (5 private)     6 (3 private)
                 treatment for the "Bank Maskan" for all market
(b) Housing      based transactions by increasing the number of
Finance          Banks providing mortgage loans. A minimum of
                 three (3) commercial bank would be required.
                 4. Establish a system to assess, monitor, and
                 manage risks associated with loan-linked
                 housing saving schemes
                 - Setting-up by the Central Bank of the               N/A               N/A              Full
                 regulatory framework for prudential rule for                                          Compliance
                 mortgage lending including loan linked housing
                 saving schemes
                 - Setting-up by the Central Bank of the               N/A            Provision of        Full
                 regulatory framework for prudential rule for                           technical      Compliance
                 mortgage lending including loan linked housing                       assistance to
                 saving schemes                                                      Bank Maskan
                                                                                         initiated
(c) Housing      5. Established information system and data on         N/A           Preparation of       Full
Subsidies        housing subsidies collected on a regular basis                       information      Compliance
                 and reports are produced and publicly                              system initiated
                 disseminated annually.
                 6. Formally approved demand side housing              N/A               N/A              Full
                 subsidies established.                                                                Compliance
(d) Land and     7. Established a system for data and monitoring       N/A          Preparation of        Full
Housing          national housing and land markets data.                            national land      compliance
Information                                                                          and housing
System                                                                                 markets
                                                                                       systems
                                                                                       initiated



                                                      43
Project Outcome Indicators


   Project
 Development                                                         Measurable Outcome Indicators (to be captured
                                Project Outcome
  Objective                                                                 by Social Impact Assessment)
   (PDOs)
PDO 1: Improve living conditions of the under-serviced neighborhoods in up to five provincial capital cities
Component A: Urban Upgrading

                 1. Increase in service coverage and               o Capitalization of improved service access in
                 improved access to basic infrastructure           housing values.
                 services in upgraded in each of the five          o Better access of essential urban services to
                 participating cities                              targeted neighborhoods.

                 2. Increase in the level of satisfaction of
                                                                   o Increased community sense of inclusion and
                 households with their living conditions in
                                                                   civic engagement.
                 upgrded settlements
                 3. Improved municipal capacity to plan
                 development, coordinate investment and            o Level of satisfaction with municipal capacity
                 community initiatives within the jurisdiction     building programs
                 of participating municipalities                   o Level of satisfaction with community enabling
                                                                   programs
                                                                   o CDS completed with broad participation in at
                                                                   least 3 cities and action plans endorsed by City
                                                                   Councils.

PDO 2: Prepare the systems, capacity and the regulatory foundation and initiate market based housing
sector reforms
Component B: Housing Reform
               1. Public land in the jurisdiction of        o Ratio of demand vs. allocation of public land.
               participating municipalities allocated in
               a transparent manner, and in response
               to market demand.
                 2. Increased efficiency of the primary            o Significant increase in the total amount of
                 housing finance markets with active               mortgage loans provided by public and private
                 participation of private banks as                 commercial banks.
                 demonstrated by mortgage loans issued             o Share of mortgage loans provided by public
                 by at least 6 banks of which 3 will be            and
                 private.                                          private commercial banks exceed the market
                                                                   share
                                                                   of Bank Maskan.
                 3. Reduced liquidity risk associated with         o Improved balance of the loan-linked housing
                 loan-linked housing savings schemes               savings scheme at Bank Maskan, as evidenced
                 thus maintaining a positive net treasury          by its information system, including provisions
                 position.                                         against
                                                                   contingent liability.
                 4. A system for introducing demand-side           o Adopted legal documents for the introduction
                 housing subsidies established.                    of demand-side housing subsidies in the 4th Five
                                                                   Year Development Plan.




                                                     44
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The methodology used by the consultant has been filed in the project filing system.




                                               45
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                          Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout   Sr. Municipal Dev. Specialist    MNSSD        TTL
Omar Razzaz                                                           Co-TTL
Maurice Gress             Consultant                               Procurement
Helen Z. Shahriari        Sr. Social Scientist              ECSSD      Social
Randa Nemer               Environmental Specialist                 Environment
Samir Kanoun              Consultant                                Institutional
Robert Bou Jaoude         Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist   MNAFM      Finance
Isabel Chatterton         Economist                                  Economics
Bertrand Renaud           Consultant                              Housing Finance
Mayumi Kato               Urban Management Specialist                  Urban
Loic Chiquier             Lead Financial Officer                      Finance
Barjor E. Mehta           Senior Urban Specialist                      Urban
Rosanna Nitti             Urban Specialist                             Urban
Laura Vecvagare           Young Professional
Hiba Tahboub              Sr. Procurement Specialist                  Procurement
Tuyet Chuppe              Program Assistant                          Project Support
Josephine Ngou            Program Assistant                          Project Support


Supervision
Sateh Chafic El-Arnout    Sr. Municipal Dev. Specialist    MNSSD           TTL
Robert Maurer             Lead Urban Sector Specialist     MNSSD           TTL
Rosanna Nitti             Senior Urban Specialist          MNSSD           TTL
                                                                   Urban/Environment
Roohi Abdullah            Consultant                       ECSSD
                                                                   /Operations/M&E
Robert Bou Jaoude         Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist   MNAFM Financial Mgmt.
Maria Donoso Clark        Consultant                        QAG          Social
Uwe Deichmann             Sr Environmental Spec.           DECRG      Environment
Elena Gagieva-Petrova     Program Assistant                 ACS
Olivier Hassler           Program Coordinator              GCMNB        Housing
Ali Jalalian              Consultant                       MNSSD      Civil Works
Christianna Johnnides     Urban Specialist                 FEUUR         Urban
Samir Kanoun              Consultant                       AFTU2 -
Fathi M Kraiem            Consultant                       SDNCA
David Le Blanc            E T Consultant                   OPD-His
Anshuman Madan Malur      Consultant                       MNSSD         Urban
Naser Nikouseresht        Consultant                       MNSSD        Housing



                                          46
Babak Pirouz                 Consultant                         MNSSD Project Operations
Mitra Riaz                   Consultant                         MNAFM      Finance
Christophe Antoine Schramm   Temporary                          MNSRE
Helen Z. Shahriari           Sr Social Scientist                ECSS4       Social
Hany Shalaby                 E T Consultant                     MNSRE Project Support
Hiba Muawyah Tahboub         Lead Procurement Specialist        OPCPR    Procurement
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi        Procurement Specialist             MNAPR    Procurement
Velayutham Vijayaverl        Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPR    Procurement
Azeb Yideru                  Program Assistant                  MNSSD Project Support


ICR
Christianna Johnnides        Urban Specialist                   MNSSD ICR Team Leader
 Roohi Abdullah              Consultant                         MNSSD Primary Author
                             Lead Specialist and Urban Sector
Dean Cira                                                       EASVS      Peer Reviewer
                             Coordinator
Barjor Mehta                 Senior Urban Specialist            AFTUW      Peer Reviewer


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                             6.06                    36.50
  FY02                                            17.44                   116.71
  FY03                                            24.70                   166.29
  FY04                                            29.95                   170.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                             Total:                                       486.62
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                            34.12                   157.59
  FY06                                            30.23                   167.49
  FY07                                            34.89                   212.97
  FY08                                            33.80                   243.11
  FY09                                            12.47                   143.37
  FY10                                             7.71                    28.80
                             Total:                                 1,442,817.22


                                             47
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Introduction

Due to time limitations, only Bandar Abbas was selected for the beneficiary assessment (BA).
UUHRP activities commenced early in Bandar Abbas and many of them have already come to
fruition. UUHRP initiatives were implemented in 3 informal settlements (with the population of
close to 37 thousand persons) out of 14 informal settlements (with a population of more than 127
thousand persons) initially identified in Bandar Abbas. The three UUHRP-trageted settlements
are Isini (population: 25,966 persons, land area: 178 ha), North Dohezar (population: 5,825
persons, land area: 93 ha), and Beheshte Zahra (population: 4,923 persons, land area: 40 ha).

The BA focused on participation/cooperation and satisfaction of the final and intermediate
beneficiaries as well as prospects for sustainability and continuity of upgrading activities. The
issue of whether or not the package of subprojects delivered in Bandar Abbas was of adequate
scale and scope to make a significant impact on the target informal settlements was not treated in
the BA and is dealt with in the stakeholder analysis.

The BA methodology included observation and individual and group interviews. Subsequent to
preparatory arrangements in Bandar Abbas, the actual BA field work was conducted during May
27-30, 2010 by the research team. A total of 45 residents and operators of local commercial units
were interviewed, covering all project areas and including Isini (Isini Fork, Nakhle Pirmard,
Derakhte Sabz, and around and toward the end of the Isini Canal), Beheshte Zahra, and North
Dohezar (Kuye Mellat 31). Efforts were made to include persons of all ages and both men and
women directly affected by the project in these interviews. Further interviews were held with the
Municipality, Water and Sewage Company, local consulting firm in charge of much of the
physical works, staff of project-sponsored schools, representative of School Renovation
Organization, and the local PMU representative. Two self-help groups belonging to the
bankability pilot project were organized for separate focus group discussions in North Dohezar. A
group discussion session was held with local activists at the Drop-in Centers of Nakhle Nakhoda
on initiatives toward reducing high-risk behavior in the target neighborhoods. Observations were
made of all physical subprojects.

This BA report first discusses UUHRP's general achievements in Bandar Abbas regarding
participation/cooperation, satisfaction, and sustainability/continuity. It then covers one by one the
subprojects implemented in the target informal settlements and examines their strengths and
weaknesses from the point of view of beneficiaries.

Community Participation and Cooperation in the Design and Implementation of UUHRP
initiatives: Community participation in the design and implementation of upgrading initiatives
enhances community ownership and satisfaction and increases sustainability. It could also create
some employment. All UUHRP subprojects were formulated based on the results of the initial
feasibility study and/or the subsequent social assessment. Both these activities were conducted
with the aim to identify community priorities in a participatory manner. This said, both the
feasibility study and the social assessment drew community priorities at the scale of the entire
informal settlements of Bandar Abbas whereas subprojects were defined at the sub-neighborhood
level. While this could be considered a drawback, in practice, all subprojects carried out in
Bandar Abbas have nonetheless addressed major needs of the communities they targeted.



                                                 48
Community participation in the implementation of the physical subprojects should be more
appropriately called cooperation in the case of Bandar Abbas. Some of the physical initiatives
required significant cooperation of the individual households and communities. Since in many
instances households understood the benefits of the activities in their sub-neighborhoods they
were not reluctant to cooperate with the contractors to facilitate construction activities. Some
households were even willing to provide cement for construction that would benefit them directly.
In other cases, household volunteered to cede some land to accommodate street rehabilitation.
Other than this, participation at the individual household and the communities (CBOs) was rather
limited. The only instance of direct participation was the employment of some community
members as guards. Advocacy and information dissemination activities also seem to have taken
place in a limited manner. Such activities were carried out in an ad hoc manner by some
contractors as well as the Municipality in order to minimize community resistance to some
initiatives and to seek cooperation from households on an individual basis. This cooperation was
quite important in the case of street improvements in which the levels and curvature of the streets
were adjusted against the entrance and perimeters of houses. In many instances these adjustments
were allowed by the households with little apprehension while in others the Municipality played a
role in persuading the households. Overall, households were more cooperative in areas where the
Municipality had better interactions with the communities (for example in Dohezar versus Isini).

Beneficiary Satisfaction: There is no doubt that the upgrading initiatives have changed the face of
the informal areas they targeted. For this reason, in general, community satisfaction with the
subprojects is at a high level. This said, there are also instances of beneficiary dissatisfaction
which are discussed for some individual subprojects below.

Sustainability: Sustainability as a major concern of the initiatives requires both firm commitments
from the urban management agencies and communities' increased sense of ownership. BA
interviews with the Municipality and line agency representatives (intermediate beneficiaries)
indicate a major achievement of the project, namely, heightened attention and desire on their part
to provide services to the informal settlements of Bandar Abbas, although this desire has not
necessarily translated into a systemic approach or a reasonable degree of institutionalization. As
for the sense of ownership in the communities, households are now observed to participate and
cooperate with each other in the maintenance of the rehabilitated streets in the project areas. In
particular, they are sweeping the paved streets and help each other in keeping the alleys clean.
(This is not to say that there were no cases of vandalism in the target areas, for example breaking
street lamps or garbage cans, which seized to happen after the initial stages of upgrading
activities.) In the word of some of those interviewed the informal neighborhoods have been
demystified and residents are increasingly thinking of themselves as full-fledged citizens.
Furthermore, the success of enabling initiatives under or in conjunction with the project in Bandar
Abbas can act as an important sustainability factor. For example, groups mobilized as part of a
bankability initiative have gained significant experience in interacting with the Municipality and
service agencies (e.g., in Mellat sub-neighborhood, requesting relocation of an electric pole,
cooperating to keep the streets clean from trash, or requesting a park and a grass turf). These
suggest enhanced levels of social capital in the neighborhoods resulting from the upgrading
initiatives. It is a sign that any further provision of urban services by the Municipality or other
urban management agencies can potentially tap into community cooperation and a high sense of
ownership in the informal settlements of Bandar Abbas.

Examination of Individual Projects




                                                49
Rehabilitation of Streets (Street Alignment and Pavement, Street Lighting, and Surface Drainage),
Piped Water, and Sewage: Street rehabilitation seems to have been the most effective initiative in
Bandar Abbas (comprising among other things around 100,000 square meters of asphalt). Better
streets had been identified as a major priority of residents. They have enhanced the pedestrian
(especially during rain) and motorized flow of traffic, have ended the isolation of the target
neighborhoods, and have facilitated the integration of the communities with the rest of the city.
Some drivers crossing the city cut their travel time by going through the neighborhood now,
driving on the newly-constructed main road. Service delivery to the target neighborhoods has also
improved as a result of the initiative. For example, taxi and bus service has now become available,
garbage is easily collected by the Municipality, and the police are providing enhanced security by
patrolling the streets on a regular basis.

Street rehabilitation faced a few hurdles during construction activities and has subsequently
caused some rather inevitable problems for certain residents. Concerning the former, it was not
possible to widen the streets or construct sidewalks for certain segments as desired (or even finish
some parts, such as those near the canal toward the end of Isini) since some home owners could
not be persuaded to cede the needed land. Lack of sidewalks while traffic flow and speed have
increased has created some traffic danger zones as well as dissatisfaction among some
beneficiaries. High traffic speeds induced on very steep slopes in some areas (which could not be
avoided considering the geometry of available space) have been dealt with by some residents
through unorthodox construction of speed bumps that exacerbate the danger of accidents.
Furthermore, with the inevitable realignment of some streets, surface water drainage from some
houses has been blocked, causing dissatisfaction. Reconstruction to correct this issue or to
prevent rain water from the streets to flow into low-lying houses is either costly or not feasible.
Some residents are dissatisfied with the quality of pavement in narrow alleys in certain cases.
Furthermore, the Municipality had accepted the responsibility of paving certain areas in Isini
(separately, but in conjunction with the project in a sense) but has not covered some alleys,
leaving residents dissatisfied.

While surface water drainage has been improved everywhere, runoff remains to be fully
controlled in many instances according to the residents. This situation seems to be the result of
difficulties in reaching agreement with some residents on making space for the surface water
ditches, blockage of some ditches due to post-construction changes made by some residents, or
blockage due to solid waste disposal.

Perhaps more importantly, the Water and Sewage Company ruled against the construction of
sewage lines for much of the project area where streets were rehabilitated. The reason as
expressed by the officials of the Company was that this would be either too costly or impossible
in the narrow streets and alleys without major disruption. Thus the main means of sewage
disposal a large number of residents in the target area remains to be shallow septic wells.

While there were difficulties in laying water pipes in the narrow alleys, relocating electric poles,
and providing lighting that stemmed from space geometry and interagency coordination hurdles,
no issue was reported by residents.

Schools: The project built four schools in the target area in situ ­ two in Dohezar and two in Isini
Fork. Schools had been identified as major community needs considering the large number of
children and teenagers and the dilapidated and hazard-prone state of previously-existing buildings.
Due to the earlier difficulties faced by the School Renovation Organization in constructing new
schools or renovating the old ones in the informal settlements of Bandar Abbas, UUHRP's school
subprojects are highly welcomed by both the Organization and the residents. Yet, the


                                                50
representative of the School Renovation Organization reminded the BA team that delays in the
project delivery had meant hardship for many students who had to attend other schools in second
shifts. The same person also complained that due to a rapid population increase in the area
(partially due to drought-induced migration) the new schools are already too small (although the
requirement and original maps had come from the Organization itself for UUHRP funding). Some
problems are observed nonetheless. The Omm-Kolsum middle school for girls is presently being
used as a primary school for boys whose original school was damaged during last year's
earthquake. The need for extra space to accommodate the primary-level male students has been
met by making use of non-classroom spaces and in particular by two containers set up in the yard.
There are electricity problems which preclude the use of fans. Considering the high temperatures
experienced in Bandar Abbas, the lack of fans (especially in the containers) has created concern
and dissatisfaction among students and their families. Omm-Kolsum's actual female students are
guests at another, substandard school in a second shift while no one is using the girl's gym
constructed adjacent to the new school. This situation may not have much to do with the project.
Yet, the electricity problems bespeak of coordination deficiencies, while dissatisfaction of
families with the conditions of the new school has a negative impact on the residents' sense of
ownership of UUHRP activities.

Canal Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation of canals in Beheshte Zahra, North Dohezar (Gursuzan
Canal), and Isini has had a major positive impact on sanitary conditions and pedestrian traffic in
the target areas. For example, much of the Isini Fork area (formerly referred to by some as
"Dirty-Sludge-Land") has become clean and pedestrian-friendly as a result of its canal
rehabilitation. The improvements notwithstanding, since the Municipality did not reach an
agreement with some residents (due to its lower level of interaction with the community in Isini
Fork as compared to North Dohezar and Beheshte Zahra), whose homes blocked part of the right
of way adjacent to the canal, one street remains partially obstructed. In Isini, despite
improvements brought about by canal rehabilitation, partially-treated water with a strong odor
from the upstream water filtration plant is flowing downstream and is causing problems for the
residents. Some dissatisfied residents believe that canal improvements have resulted in stronger
and longer-lasting odor (possibly due to a larger volume of water now flowing in the canal).

Residents' level of cooperation and participation in maintaining the canals is different from one
place to another. Specifically, in areas where the project's enabling initiatives have been active
and have achieved some success in mobilizing residents (e.g. in North Dohezar and Beheshte
Zahra), the level of cooperation is higher. Gursuzan Canal for example has been cleaned based on
the request and as a result of the efforts of local community (not so in Isini).

Health and Treatment Center: While the building for the project-sponsored center in Isini Fork is
more or less finished, it is not equipped and the subproject remains incomplete. For this reason,
its is difficult to gauge beneficiary satisfaction with the initiative. Local residents are nonetheless
expressing happiness and hope with regard to the future opening of the center.

Sports Facilities: While the construction of the facilities is not complete, local residents
expressed high level of enthusiasm for their potentials. Furthermore, line agency officials are very
interested in the project and have allocated significant funds of their own to the initiative.
Specifically, non-UUHRP funds have been used for the construction of an in-door facility for
women on the premises adding to the enthusiasm of women in the area for the initiative. The Isini
neighborhood has a local football team which will be served by the facilities, and the high
percentage of young persons in the neighborhood and its surrounding areas will ensure full
utilization of potentials. Some residents are worried about possible limitations placed on the
public use of the facilities by the officials. There seems to be an unofficial proposal on the table


                                                  51
for community-driven management of the facilities. Although some residents are not happy this
proposal, its realization seems possible and beneficial considering the existence of sports
enthusiasts and trained personnel in the area.

Park: The construction of Isini Park has had two functions. First, it has changed the face of a
large crater-like land parcel which previously attracted large amounts of garbage and dirty water
runoff. Second, it has created a pleasant area for the local families in which to spend their leisure
time. Although the park is not fully complete, local families have already started going to it in big
numbers. In particular, a large group of families, including children and adults, may now be seen
in the Park in the evenings.

Enabling and Capacity Building Initiatives:The project was able to induce the Municipality to
establish a unit in its local office covering target areas to facilitate interaction between local
communities and UUHRP initiatives as well as urban service agencies. Members of this unit
participated in training and educational seminars provided by organized by the Project. The unit
was responsible or assisted the following:

    1. Organizing all discussion sessions with the communities at the neighborhood level
    2. Organizing community-based activities, in particular a "neighborhood mayor" initiative
       that helped elect female members from the communities to voice resident concerns and to
       follow-up on their needs and concerns with the Municipality and urban service agencies
    3. Communicating with beneficiaries and various stakeholders to draw community priorities
       and to provide needed services
    4. Encouraging resident cooperation and participation
    5. Organizing self-help groups as part of a bankability pilot initiative that was funded by the
       National Enabling Taskforce (56 women were organized in these microfinance groups
       that further initiated community activities and lobbied for community needs such as green
       space and garbage collection)

A main initiative sponsored by the project that did not come to fruition was "Prevention of
Substance Abuse, HIV/AIDS and High-Risk Behavior." This initiative first collected information
from residents and also held workshops for local stakeholders in Bandar Abbas. Due to the
sensitive nature of the issues covered with the local residents, subsequent local participation never
materialized and even some conflicts arose. There is little evidence of an impact of the initial
workshops on local officials (other than the Wellbeing Organization) or on the residents (no one
knows about the initiative in the neighborhoods). Activities related to preventing substance abuse,
HIV/AIDS, and high-risk behavior have instead been organized by the Wellbeing Organization in
a Drop-in Center inside the target neighborhood but not in proximity to physical urban upgrading
project.

Another initiative to formalize and provide space for Isini Fork peddlers has not been undertaken
due to lack of space on the premises and legal difficulties of formalization.




                                                 52
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Introduction

The main purpose of UUHRP (APL1) was to pilot-test and refine an integrated approach to
upgrading underserviced neighborhoods in 5 Iranian cities, and to initiate reforms in the public
management of the housing sector toward a market-led structure. The upgrading initiatives
(Component A) in the 5 cities of Kermanshah, Zahedan, Bandar Abbas, Sanandaj, and Tabriz
aimed to improve living conditions in informal settlements based on community priorities, help
indigenize an urban upgrading model for Iran, and provide feedback for the institutionalization of
an upgrading structure at the national, provincial, urban levels. The housing reform activities
(Component B) were to prepare a system, the capacity, and the regulatory framework for market-
based housing reforms. A third component of the project (Component C) created management
capacity for the implementation of the project. All three components were supposed to eventually
feed into the second (and ultimately third) part of a 12-year program (APL2 and APL3).

This stakeholder analysis reports on the opinions of key players in the project to shed light on the
strengths and weaknesses of the initiatives as well as the implementation obstacles they have
faced. Due to time limitations, the PMU management and staff comprised the main target of the
interviews at the national level although other stakeholders were also interviewed whenever
possible. Individual interviews were conducted with the UUHRP management, manager of the
National Enabling Taskforce, representative of the Municipalities Organization, heads of various
UUHRP units and subunits, and the Municipality, urban service agencies, UUHRP local
representative, and the main local upgrading consultant in one of the Project's target cities,
Bandar Abbas, for the purpose of this report.

Component A

General Observations: UUHRP has been able to disburse around 50 percent of its loan amount
only. This means that it has not been able to deliver the full package of its activities. Furthermore,
at the time being, prospects for the outputs of its housing reform component are at best uncertain
while those for the institutionalization of an urban upgrading process and urban upgrading fund as
well as city development strategies are only slowly evolving. Yet, the major positive impact of
UUHRP should be observed outside of its own subprojects, in developing a new orientation to
informal settlements at various public sector levels in Iran. Furthermore, the main reasons behind
UUHRP's lackluster performance may be summarized as: UUHRP's complicated initiatives that
required coordination among a great number of actors; the novelty of the activities in Iran, which
meant that neither UUHRP staff nor Iranian consulting firms nor Iranian authorities were
experienced in delivering or facilitating the delivery of the Project's outputs (especially in the
case of software initiatives such enabling, capacity building, and institutionalization, but also
across the subprojects); major difficulties with payments; major difficulties in hiring professional,
well-trained personnel; several rounds of change in the Project management; lack of compatibility
of Iranian financial, bidding, and contract regulations with those of the World Bank; difficulty of
delivering Works in informal settlements due to their nature as well as land acquisition problems;
and redirection of priorities on the part of the government in the case of the housing reform
component.




                                                 53
Impact at the National Level: UUHRP has succeeded in bringing about a new government
direction in dealing with informal settlements in Iran. The National Document on Enabling
Informal Settlements was an early achievement of the Project. In this document a new approach
and orientation to informal settlements based on upgrading is delineated. With this document the
National Enabling Taskforce was formed assuming the responsibility for the subject and
coordinating activities on the informal settlements. The National Taskforce has also established
provincial taskforces not only in the 5 UUHRP cities but also across the provinces in Iran. Most
of these taskforces have commissioned studies on the informal settlements and how to upgrade
them while some have already come up with upgrading initiatives of their own. Implementation
coordination taskforces have also been formed in some cases at the city level to coordinate the
activities of the municipality and urban service agencies based on the recommendations of the
commissioned studies. Some training has already been provided to members of these taskforces
by the National Taskforce. As a result of the project, a specific national budget line has been
approved for the informal settlements for this Iranian fiscal year (around US 23 million of which
can be directly tapped). The heightened attention of the authorities to informal settlements in Iran
was revealed in the President's recent provincial trips. In Bandar Abbas alone 350 hectares of
land were allocated as collateral for the purpose of informal settlement upgrading by presidential
decree.

Preparation, Design, and Implementation of economic, social, and community infrastructure:
The preparatory stage of the project had some deficiencies. While preliminary designs were
provided for some of the initiatives in the preparatory stage of the project, in others, only broad
outlines were available. Many of these preliminary outlines faced subsequent obstacles in the
actual formulation and implementation stages. For example, in many cases allocated land parcels
were problematic. They either had alternative claimants or had very poor soil properties. Solving
these problems took a great deal of time and money. Furthermore, maps and project specifications
provided by urban service agencies were often deficient and problematic and took a great deal of
time to revise. Whereas the intent was to provide a model for urban upgrading, these difficulties
resulted in many problematic outcomes. The quality of works in many cases is very similar to
what has been prevalent in the target cities. Needless to say, part of the reason behind this as well
as behind project delays is the nature of informal settlements where project implementation is
difficult. Furthermore, the familiarization (albeit slow) of urban service agencies with better
procedures and standards should be considered an achievement of the project, although perhaps
not fully revealed yet. As an example, there is appreciation on the part of some of the agencies
(e.g. the Water and Sewage Company in Bandar Abbas) for a global approach to implementing
projects (having one contractor take care of a project from A to Z).

Indeed, UUHRP has been able to deliver a set of upgrading activities in the informal settlements
of 5 target cities using an integrated approach and to impact their urban management orientations
in major ways. Interviews with the representatives of the Municipality and urban service agencies
in Badar Abbas, which was specifically probed for the purpose of this report, indicate a major
change of attitude toward and appreciation for the upgrading approach to informal settlements. As
an important example, while the project spent about US$ 14 million in Bandar Abbas, it is
claimed that the Province put in an additional US$ 20 while the Municipality spent US$ 4-5
million on the target settlements. The Municipality in particular has significantly increased its
activities in the target informal settlements and has in some instances enhanced its quality and
quantity of interactions with the communities. In effect, it has fully embraced its responsibilities
to the target neighborhoods, perhaps since they no longer appear so informal. The same may be
true for other agencies. For example, it is claimed that new projects have been formulated for the
target settlements and a specific detailed urban plan for the informal settlements is being
commissioned (since much of the informal settlement areas are not covered by the city's detailed


                                                 54
plan). Yet, the increased focus appears to have stopped short of being institutionalized in an inter-
agency sense or possibly in dealing with any other/future informal settlements. Nonetheless,
everyone agrees on the benefits of the integrated approach to upgrading followed in the project,
and it is claimed that the Municipality is already working in other informal settlements (since
other neighborhoods are also demanding service now). Perhaps, the creation of a specific unit
within the Municipality to coordinate informal settlements upgrading activities would have
ensured more continuity and future inter-agency coordination (which was problematic enough
during the life of the project). The activities of the Provincial Enabling Taskforce (created by the
project, active during project activities, and remaining functional), individual urban service
agencies, the Construction Coordination Taskforce (a previously-existing institution to coordinate
construction activities by line agencies), and the Implementation Affairs Coordination Taskforce
(supposed to coordinate line agencies on informal settlement upgrading activities at the city level
but currently dormant in Bandar Abbas) remain dependent on the will of individual officials and
their influence and management capacities. It is thus still very important to fill the key positions
in the urban management with those highly interested in the upgrading and enabling approach to
informal settlements.

Implementation of UUHRP required the involvement a great number of players from the outset,
perhaps at the time of project preparation. However, this task was difficult and only partially
achieved during the later stages of the project. This meant that many of the necessary
stakeholders either never came on board or did so late in the project. Furthermore, a major
difficulty of UUHRP activities has been rapid changes in the urban management of the target
cities. For example, the life of the project in Bandar Abbas coincided with the tenure of 4
provincial deputy governors for development and 3 mayors. In each change, the project
management had to bring the new office holders on board with the initiatives and their intents.
All in all, across the 5 target cities, upgrading activities will continue under the guidance of the
provincial taskforces. The issue of informal settlements has now been deeply entrenched among
the responsibilities of the urban management in these cities.

Enabling and Capacity Building: The enabling activities started late and did not have a specific
model. Despite this they had an initial good start in the first three cities covered by UUHRP. For
example in Zahedan, community-based organizations formed on their own and were easily
engaged by the project. However, changes in the government altered the situation. It was no
longer easy to work with the community-based and non-governmental organizations. This
together with the fact that enabling initiatives were only broadly defined meant that enabling
activities were only initiated two years after the start of the project and did not get a full chance of
coming into fruition. They were behind the physical activities. Furthermore, it was not possible to
hire an international enabling consultant with significant experience in urban informal settlements
and there was a lack of such a tradition in the country. Two TORs were provided by the World
Bank on high-risk behavior and on handicrafts. However, the high-risk behavior initiative proved
problematic for the initiation of enabling activities in the informal settlements. The enabling unit
faced inflexibility of procedures, whereas the enabling activities were new and national
consultants often lacked experience and would sometimes even need replacement. For example,
the consultant carrying out the handicraft project in Bandar Abbas could not deliver its outputs
and had to be replaced. Yet, it took a year for this change to take place. Furthermore, the enabling
unit was not able to develop small scale initiatives since it lacked the authorization to enter into
small contracts. While the enabling unit started its work late it eventually managed to develop an
OM for itself based on two goals -- capacity building for urban management and enabling which
was to include enhanced subsistence and employment support, support for vulnerable groups, and
enhancing neighborhood identity. A number of enabling activities were eventually initiated by the
unit, including a set of social assessment for all the cities as well as skills development and


                                                  55
bankability initiatives. The Enabling Unit had difficulty formulating its own project. While the
social assessments conducted in the target cities provided information at the settlement level,
enabling projects had to be formulated at the sub-neighborhood level. The Unit eventually
managed to formulate a relatively large number of projects for the settlements across the 5 cities
(although getting no objections for them from the Bank proved difficult) but did not get a chance
to implement them before the end of the project. The Unit also managed to send 15 community
members and municipal staff from the target cities to India for training on governance, women,
children and environment. Working groups comprising municipal representatives, community
members, and NGOs were also organized by the Enabling Unit in the target cities.

The Enabling Unit was further responsible for municipal capacity building. This initiative was
long delayed. Part of the reason was the initial reluctance of the Municipalities Organization to
cooperate on this matter. Furthermore, the original consultant hired to prepare a training needs
assessment and training programs was not performing and was eventually changed. The training
program has now been completed and delivered to the Municipalities Organization. In the
interview with the representative of the Municipalities Organization it was indicated that the
developed program is being fully utilized for the provision of specific training modules in various
municipalities and is considered a great achievement. Yet, the delays have meant that there has
been little connection between this activity and the upgrading initiatives in UUHRP's four target
cities. This said, certain capacity has already been built in the municipalities of the 5 target cities
through learning by doing as indicated above. As a positive indicator, in Bandar Abbas,
Municipality officials indicated that as a result of the project, the Municipality routinely
commissions social studies in conjunction with its activities.

City Development Strategies: Three cities (originally 5) were considered for the development of
CDSs ­ Qazvin, Shahrud, and Anzali. The CDS initiatives were delayed due to lack of expertise
on the subject in Iran and difficulties faced in hiring international consultants. The preparation of
CDSs is more or less complete now. However, it is not clear how these activities will be followed
up. The goal seems to be the integration of a CDS component into the prevalent Iranian
comprehensive and detailed urban plans. The prepared CDSs for the three cities should act as
good models for this purpose. However, since the approaches of CDS and the comprehensive and
detailed plans prevalent in Iran are different, it requires a major and careful effort to mainstream
CDSs in the country. It is claimed that the Office of Deputy Minister for Urban Development is
taking up this issue.


Institutionalization of Urban Upgrading and Urban Upgrading Fund: Two important and related
studies were commissioned by UUHRP on formulating a structure that would institutionalize
urban upgrading at the national, provincial, and city levels as well as a fund to be specifically
used for upgrading purposes. These studies are now complete. However, much effort will be
required to actually implement their recommendations. The National Enabling Taskforce is trying
to get approval for these recommendations, although there seems to be a long way before this can
materialize.

Environmental Safeguards: The activities on environmental safeguards helped mainstream
safeguards monitoring as part of project supervision. Furthermore, the UUHRP Environmental
Unit organized environmental workshops in the 5 target cities for three groups of urban
management, technical personnel (including contractors), and communities. In practice, as
observed in the case of Bandar Abbas, these activities do not seem to have had a discernable
impact. Finally, an environmental monitoring template was developed and provided to key
players by the Environmental Unit.


                                                  56
Component B

The main activities toward housing policy reform were policy research and data-bank
development. The original intent was to change public policy toward a market-based structure.
The Housing Reform Component of UUHRP aimed to understand housing and land issues in the
Iranian context and identify areas with needs of reform; coordinate housing and national
development policies; strengthen housing market to address growing needs; and target subsidies
to specific groups. These goals were compatible with to those specified in Iran's Third National
Development Plan. The activities included research in the following four areas: land, housing
finance, housing subsidies, and land and housing information systems. The completed research
projects include 3 studies on urban land management, 3 studies on housing finance, three studies
on housing subsidies, and 2 initiatives on land and housing information banks now delivered to
responsible agencies. Furthermore, TORs have been developed for 5 of the remaining initiatives.
The Housing Reform Component was not able to hire international consultants as envisaged
which is a shortcoming since the intent was to inject international best practices into the activities.
Despite this, a number of good outputs were produced by the initiative. The activities however
suffered from two issues. The first issue was that while the component was implemented at the
PMU housed within the Urban Development and Renovation Organization, the actual player in
the housing sector within the Ministry is the Housing Deputy Office with perhaps competing
claims. The second and most important issue is that government's approach to the housing sector
changed during the course of project implementation so that Iran's main housing policy now
revolves around greater direct public intervention. Therefore the prospects for the outputs of this
component are uncertain.

Project Management

Management and Personnel: Unfortunately, UUHRP suffered from several rounds of
management changes with their obvious impact on its activities. Furthermore, UUHRP was never
able to attract all the qualified personnel it needed. Part of this was due to the salaries. Since
UDRO was not willing to hire UUHRP personnel as its own staff, it resorted to signing a contract
with a third party company that would in turn pay UUHRP staff salaries. Yet, the company would
naturally try to limit salaries. Staff payment issues have had a very negative impact on the
operations of the project.

Payments and Contracts:Originally, the project intended to develop a decentralized system of
disbursement. However, in practice, this proved too difficult. In particular, making use of
provincial Housing and Urban Development financial systems proved not feasible. It was
therefore decided to have a centralized structure. Disbursements were made through the office of
the financial comptroller of the Ministry.

Delayed payments have been a major feature of UUHRP and have caused late completion of
many subprojects. For example, in Bandar Abbas, payment delays to the main contractor resulted
in project slow-down and serious problems for the residents. In Kermanshah, since contractors
were not getting paid on time the quality of their work suffered while in the end they demanded
larger payments.

Part of the reason for delayed payments was the unfamiliarity of various responsible parties with
World Bank procedures and possibly little priority attached to the project by them. As an example,
the Financial Comptroller had an array of non-UUHRP initiatives with which to deal and would
not haste to treat UUHRP payments in any especial way.


                                                  57
Another problem was that the Management and Planning Organization would set an annual
ceiling for the national contribution to the Project. This in practice meant that UUHRP could not
disburse more than this ceiling in a year even when World Bank funds were available. Also
national funds had two separate sources ­ general funds, and those of Urban Development and
Renovation Organization. The latter's funds would not become available easily.

There were also contract problems. For example, it was not possible to enter into contract with
NGOs. Furthermore, the threshed set for international bidding was perhaps too low to attract
international bidders while it limited the number of Iranian firms participating in the tenders of
amounts larger than the thresholds. Overall, it took too long for many contracts to materialize
adding to delays.

Strategic Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation:UUHRP was never able to develop a strategic
planning approach to its activities. Part of the reason for this was rapid changes in the Project's
management. Furthermore, UUHRP staff and management seem to have been in a perpetual
emergency situation. For the same reasons, UUHRP was not able to develop a monitoring and
evaluation mechanism.




                                                58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Background and outcome versus the agreement objectives

Urban Upgrading and Housing Reform Project may be the most ambitious development project
that has been undertaken with World Bank financing in recent years. While the stated
development objectives of the project are "to (i) improve the living conditions in under-serviced
neighborhoods in up to five provincial capital cities and; (ii)p repair the systems, capacity, and
regulatory foundation and initiate market based housing sector reforms. To ensure that
investments in upgrading are o f high priority to their ultimate beneficiaries, municipalities are
expected to undertake a strategic planning process with significant community participation",
two points were clear from the onset of the project. First that this project was venturing into
uncharted territories with the program for the upgrading of informal settlements having been
started only a few years before UUHRP, and there being strong resistance at the midlevel of the
government to the notion, and secondly that this was to be only a start for the process in Iran and
a pilot project, a test run if you will, to define the implementation structures and guidelines for the
national program to follow. It was also evident from the beginning that while the work of some
components such as TUB would be complementary to was being done by the government (in this
case studies) and thus it would more or less have adequate funding to carry out its work, the
budget for other components such as the physical interventions and upgrading in TUA would be
far from enough to upgrade all the informal settlements in the target cities. The end result was the
selection of target neighborhoods in each city and what became a less-than-perfect process of
project selection. As part of its PDOs the project aimed to improve the leaving conditions of the
residents of the under-services neighborhoods yet due to finding issues it could only cover parts
of these neighborhoods with many not benefitting from it or doing so only incrementally,
UUHRP's budget was far too small to cover all issues in all the informal settlements in the five
target cities. Therefore the full completion of all subprojects was to be of marginal difference, as
opposed to leaving some unimplemented. It is this exact point that makes it clear that the true and
main development objective of the project was to design an implementation process and to test,
evaluate and fine-tune it for use by the nation-wide program. The alternative to this would've
been to reduce the number of target cities and increase the scope of intervention in each one, an
option which was not preferred by either the Bank or the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development. The three APL structure of the loan and its progressively expanding scope was all
meant to push start the national program, give it and in effect UDRO and MHUD a road map and
implementation plan, and stay with it as tackled the problem in all urban areas facing it. There
was no doubt on either side that 350 million dollars was not going to make a dent in the problem
in Iran and was rather meant to be a catalyst for the program to be implemented by the
government. The other obvious goal of the project was to help the government develop policies
that prevent the expansion of current settlements and the formation of new ones through
improved management of information and land, better housing policies, and the use of various
financial tools.

Assessment of Project Performance: That is indeed how the project should be evaluated and
judged, based on what it has accomplished and the state of the national program today, and not
through traditional implementation program guidelines and indicators. The program description
"APL1 (US$1OO million over a 5 year period) will i) institute an integrated approach to
upgrading informal settlements, and ii) lay the foundation (systems, capacity, framework) for and
initiate housing sector reforms", and the triggers for entering into APL2 of which only one has to
do with the physical intervention (and TUA in general), which indeed has been met, prove this
exact point.



                                                  59
So while in the traditional sense the implementation of the project falls far from being perfect
with at most disbursement falling short of the 60% mark, its accomplishments are indeed quite
impressive. Based on an improved version of the TOR used by UUHRP the national program has
undertaken feasibility studies for an additional 52 cities, has a three year implementation budget
that dwarfs the APL1 loan amount (170 million dollars for the current fiscal year), and UDRO
has committed to implement UUHRP subprojects from its own resources which shows the depth
of funding available to the program today. The message is clear: the program is now well
established with the secretariat of the National Enabling Task Force, housed in UDRO, fully
staffed and in charge of the national program (and led by an ex UUHRP unit head). The
provincial structures have been completely established and are functional, and there is complete
ownership and commitment to the program at the Ministry, UDRO, the provincial and city
governments, as well as by the residents of the informal settlements. UDRO has also signed
MOUs or framework agreements with a large number of other organizations at the national level
such as the Social Deputyship of the Law Enforcement Forces, the Wellbeing Organization, the
National Libraries Organization, the Municipalities Organizations, etc. helping to establish a
coordinate effort for upgrading of informal settlements in Iran under its stewardship.

Assessment of the PMU and UDRO, and the Bank: However as stated above the project did
suffer from performance and implementation issues. First and foremost these can be attributed to
the project design which may have been too ambitious for and was definitely too optimistic. So
much of what was done in UUHRP was happening in the ministry for the first time ever, and
much time was needed for the trials and tribulations of so many new procedures and actions,
many of which contradicted what had been the norm till then. Also components such as enabling
and capacity building were outside the scope and authority of MHUD and required external
cooperation and this was not foreseen during the preparation phase and thus led to delays. The
component was only able to enter implementation in the later years of the project. Nevertheless
the PMU remains adamant that the project could've been completed with either better preparation
plans or with a longer implementation period and does not believe the scope of the work
should've been reduced. The acceleration of the work and disbursement in the fourth year of the
project proves this point. The most important task was the establishment of the new procedures
and making them operational, something that was indeed done albeit in a time-consuming fashion.
UDRO and the PMU believe, just as they did during project preparation and appraisal that the
required implementation capacity has always been there and was hindered by technical and
design issues, as well as time restraints.

The implementing agency did suffer from a number of issues and problems, most of which had to
do with the fact that this was a brand new and a learning experience. Errors in the frameworks
agreements, problems with releasing the counterpart funds in the in first couple of years, legal
issues with the project staff salaries being higher than those of UDRO employees and indeed
what was allowed by the national regulations which took some time and work to resolve, three
changes in the management of the project and a number of less important issues slowed the
implementation down. Also much of the time and energy of the PMU was spent trying to make
up for lost time in a project which was quite ambitious and compressed to begin with, and thus
had very little room for catching up. However by the third year the project had recovered and was
picking up speed and momentum. There were also glitches which were beyond the project's
control. The abysmal performance of the consultant carryout the needs assessment for the
Municipal Capacity Building sub-component and the ensuing dismissal of the consultant that
caused irreparable damage and delays to the sub-component is a clear example of these. Also the
refusal to allow the project to hire international consultants was another big problem hindering
the work of the project.



                                               60
The delays in the transfer of funds because of the Banking issues also did much damage.
During the project design and appraisal phase and in the early years of the project the bank
showed deep and committed support. The level of the technical experts working on the project
from the Bank's side was simply excellent and indeed they helped design and formulate an
extremely difficult and complicated project. Regretfully as the project started to gain its footing
and to launch its more intricate components, and thus was in deep need of support and backing,
the Bank's support started to wane. Also the delays in responses to No Objection requests became
and longer and longer, especially for the consultancy TORs (technical and not procurement
responses), and while the project was developing some of the most complicated consultancy
TORs that had ever been put together in any Iranian project. This was very much the case for
TUB and the Enabling units and did much damage during the last year of the project to
components that had just gained their footing. The number of team members on the Bank
missions continuously declined, as did the number of missions. And while in the first half of the
project the aide memoires were extremely prompt, complete and were widely circulated, for the
mission before the last one the aide memoire came after months and many requests, and the one
for the last mission which was more than a year before the end of the project was simply never
sent. By the same token the level of communication and contact dropped. For example the
biweekly audio conferences were reduced to once every couple of months and then stopped
completely and this disconnect showed itself in the workflow and the pace of the project.

As for the other partners in the sub-projects, mainly the line ministries and implementation
agencies, and especially the Ministry of Interior and the Municipalities Organization, it took a
while for them to become comfortable with the working arrangements but by the end of the
project everything was working smoothly and with very few glitches; something that has been
carried over to the work of the secretariat of the National Enabling Task Force and the national
program.

As stated above the Bank performed fundamentally better in the first half of the project and the
PMU did better in the second half and based on that fact and its impact on performance and the
overall achievements of the project, the Bank's performance should be rated as Moderately
Satisfactory while the PMU and UDRO on the strength of the national program and the
continuation of the work should be rated as Satisfactory.


Lessons Learned: In order to better assess the original project design it is important to capture
the lessons learnt by each PMU unit. Again it should be noted that these exact points are being
used by the secretariat of the National Enabling Task Force to fine-tune and improve its operating
procedures for the national program and the experience should be viewed as positive and
constructive.

TUA
Project Preparation Unit
Project preparation relied on a cycle based on feasibility studies, social impact assessments,
carrying out needs assessment based on the two, clearing the projects with the local authorities,
and final clearance based on social, economic and financial assessments. The first and foremost
problem was that the initial data given by line ministries or responsible agencies were not
necessary firm or accurate. Only when the process was finished they would give the PMU exact
and accurate data and plans for the projects which meant the earlier clearances may no longer
have been accurate or even valid. Also the time span involved meant the agency may have
reconsidered its needs or the scope of the project by the time it was approved. The design of the
process requires serious reconsideration and the simplest solutions would be to include secondary


                                                61
safeguards and checks and balances which would make a very lengthy process even longer, or the
whole cycle and its sequencing have to be redesigned. Although this has already been started by
changing the TORs for the feasibility studies and the social impact assessments, and the move
towards packaging them together, the other design issues that had manifested themselves remain;
For example instead of developing the output and outcome indicators when the sub-projects were
being selected, designed and approved, the output indicators were done collectively by a
consultant at the end of the project. It just seems that a large number of vulnerabilities were
created in the rush to get the project off the ground which may have been avoided if more time
was given to the preparation phase.

Procurement Unit
Procurement in this project suffered from most of what other World Bank projects in Iran were
faced with:
 Vast differences between the national and Bank regulations at the beginning, and after the
    changes in the national guidelines, a number of specific remaining differences

    Complications involved with international tenders (including the inability of the project to get
    clearance to hire international consultants) and the low threshold for national tenders (USD
    200,000). As an example a number of tenders were held at the national level but had to be
    voided because the proposals by the consultants were higher than the ceiling for national
    tenders.

    Lack of adequate expertise in national consultants for the more complicated consultancies
    and the fact that some of the work had never been done before in the country (especially in
    the case of enabling projects) which led to the PMU having to retender some of them. In
    some cases none of the consultants submitting bids were able to reach the minimum points
    required.

    The low ceiling for post review and lengthy process for selection of consultants for prior
    review

    The long time it took to convince the financial controller and local contractors to accept the
    Bank's methods for technical evaluations and determining the winning bids


Financial Unit
 Misunderstandings with the MPO and the Supreme Audit Court over limitations in the use of
   loan funding per year as they believed the same limitations of the counterpart funds applied.

    The multiplicity of sources for counterpart funds, the agreement should've stipulated that all
    should come from the Ministry's budget. In effect the experience of the project supports the
    new approach of the Bank for 100% funding from the loan and no counterpart funds, never
    mind having two separate sources for it. This is also very much true in cases where the legal
    deductions are larger than the counterpart share.

    The project design and operations manual should include the instructions that the MPO
    framework agreement and all the required documents for the Ministry of Finance, Social
    Security Organization and others should be exchanged immediately after the loan is approved.


                                                62
    The special account should be in rials and the Bank replenishments should be converted into
    rials and deposited into it. This will fundamentally expedite matters.

    Only one financial software program should be developed and used for all Bank projects thus
    helping to ensure that it has no bugs and can fulfill all of the Bank's reporting requirements.

    The financial controller and manager of the financial unit should either be in the same office
    or at least in the same building. In general it is best if a special financial controller is
    appointed for Bank projects.

    The recovery of the advance payment should take place in the last three months of the project.
    In UUHRP extremely aggressive recovery led to an almost halt in implementation during the
    last year, solutions offered afterwards did little to undo the impact and the momentum was
    seriously slowed.

    There should be better information dissemination to and coordination with the related
    organizations in the country on World Bank projects to ensure that they don't slow the
    process or bring it to a stop.

    Decentralizing the financial work to the provinces requires extensive training and capacity
    building which should be undertaken well in advance of the project implementation if it is to
    have any chance of succeeding.


Technical Unit: There are major differences between the national guidelines and those of the
Bank causing most of the unit's time being spent on convincing other ministries, organizations
and contactors of the requirements to do things this way.

Lack of adequate coordination between the bodies involved in upgrading, especially in preparing
the designs and plans and playing an active advisory and supervisory role in the implementation.
Although this showed a marked improvement as the project moved forward it was the single
largest burden on the unit.

Environmental Unit: As the environmental unit is responsible for clearing the project during the
selection process it is imperative for the environmental consultants to start their work at that point
or for the feasibility consultant to include environment experts onboard. In the project design as
it stands the consultant would only start its work and review long after the project had been
selected and even initiated. Also having the contractors or even supervision consultants oversee
the environmental safeguards and to fill the monthly forms is a less than desirable solution as they
lack both the expertise and the interest to do them accurately. One alternative to make the process
more responsive is to make the payment of invoices contingent on approval by the environmental
unit.

Another problem is the lack of baseline environmental conditions and data for the target
neighborhoods and also laws that would allow for more aggressive implementation of the
regulations.
Also instead of using the staff from the central PMU it would be better to have part-time local
experts who can visit the projects more frequently and take a more hands-on role.




                                                 63
CDS Unit: The largest problem facing the CDS unit, and the main cause of delays in starting its
projects, was the inability to hire international consultants and the fact that no local consultants
and ever done a City Development Strategy before. Furthermore the virtual lack of any input
from the Bank on the reports once the consultants had started their work further hindered the
evaluation and monitoring process.

Enabling and Municipal Capacity Building: In many ways the work and tasks of this unit were
the most complicated and challenging of the project. From the Social Impact Assessments and
helping to compile and verify the sub-project lists, the unit was always at the forefront of what the
project was doing and often carrying a burden far beyond its assigned tasks, or design. The unit
was always at the heart of the struggle to establish working arrangements with some of the most
territorial organizations in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The unit was also faced with the most
difficult tenders as there were very few or no consultants with any experience in the work that
was to be done. This complication and difficulties led to repeated delays which impacted the
social capital and trust that had been built in the inhabitants of the target cities and neighborhoods.
It was also at the forefront of the problems facing the project in the target cities and
neighborhoods, the painstaking process of informing and trust building which had to be repeated
with every change at the local level, especially in case of the mayors. Even at the central level it
took a long time to fine-tune the working relationship between the Enabling and Capacity
Building with the other units within PMU and the line ministries thus hindering coordination and
cooperation.

There are a number of lessons learnt, from the time that should've been allocated solely for the
preparation and training of the unit, to the needed support for the preparation of the TORs and
even the sequencing of activities and interventions based on size and complication as well as
better information dissemination at the neighborhoods, target cities and national levels. To be
exact the coordinated implementation of software and hardware aspects of the project required
advance training and the sudden start of the project was not designed properly.

TUB: TUB which was in effect the intellectual arm of the project also had its fare share of
problems with developing TORs, carrying out tenders and finding suitable consultants. Added to
that was the complete shift in the government's housing policy after the change in administration.
While many of the studies that were carried out by TUB where accepted and used, some others
were not deemed to be of priority by the new management at the Ministry. TUB also suffered
from the inability to contract foreign experts and consultants and while it received excellent
support from the Bank in the first half of the project that support was almost completely gone by
the final year.

Nevertheless the component succeeded in developing a comprehensive enabling and capacity
building program for the five target cities through needs assessment, and identifying the priorities
of the inhabitants, programs and requirements of UUHRP and it developed TORs for them.
Through discussions with the local authorities many of these projects will be implemented
through financing by local governments.

Lessons learnt include the need for better coordination with the final beneficiary departments or
organizations, although the continuous changes in mid and upper managements of these entities
made this very difficult to achieve. Another was paying better attention to the quality of the
consultants in the selection process as opposed to putting the main emphasis on the price or early
estimates.

A Summary of the Achievements of the National Program and the Policy Side


                                                 64
As stated earlier there have been many successes in the national effort for urban upgrading and
housing reform, some as part of the planned objectives of UUHRP and others having been
achieved indirectly. Some of these achievements which were either directly the results of the
project, or were helped or given legitimacy or urgency by it include:
The preparation and approval of the National Document for Enabling and Regularizing Informal
Settlements
The establishment of the Secretariat of the National Enabling and Regularizing Taskforce for
Informal Settlements at UDRO
The establishment of the cross-ministerial National Taskforce headed by the Minister of Housing
and Urban Development and provincial taskforces
The joint agreement between the National Taskforce and Supreme Council for Urban Planning
and Architecture
The preparation of the Resettlement Policy and Environmental Management Plan for use in
UUHRP and the national program
Allocation of a budget line for the feasibility studies for more than 50 cities and implementation
of the upgrading plans in a number of those
The signing of agreements with many of the entities involved in urban upgrading at the national
and local levels
Inclusion of the issue of informal settlements in a number of laws as well as in university
curriculums the most significant being its inclusion in the Fourth Development Plan and
prominent presence in the Fifth
The allocation of budgets for feasibility studies, some financed by the Municipalities
Organization, and the allocation of a line item budget for physical upgrading and enabling
programs.
Apart from these the project has helped strengthen and clarify the role of the municipalities in the
overall process. At micro level the appointment of PMU representatives and experts from the
municipalities in the target cities has defined the working relationship. The project succeeded in
establishing local ownership and engagement over the sub-projects by both the officials and the
people living in the target neighborhoods and in the process has defined a working model for the
program.
A number of unit managers have returned to UDRO as mid-level managers bringing with them
the experience and knowledge of the project. One of those is now director-general of the
secretariat of the National Enabling Task Force and thus the national program. A large number of
ex PMU staff have formed a consulting firm and will help to spread the lessons and experience of
UUHRP to other projects and ministries. This experience includes the some of the most
complicated and difficult enabling projects ever implemented in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The project succeeded in completing City Development Strategies for three cities, the first ones
ever done properly and based on standard TOR in Iran, and now many of the Iranian cities are
looking to hire consultants to do their CDS.

TUB which had been assigned some of the more lofty and ambitious objectives of the project
(and all but one the triggers for APL2 had to do with TUB) also succeeded in completing many of
its objectives. The following table gives an overview to some of its tasks and accomplishments.

Objective                        Output indicators              Accomplishments
Revised building codes and       Formally     adopt     revised The revision committees are in
standards for housing            building codes and standards   the process of preparing
construction that address                                       revised standards and
earthquake and affordability                                    completing the new building
concerns                                                        regulations. (indicator met)


                                                65
To establish a decision-          After the completion of the       Succeeded in establishing
making and land management        sample studies guidance           coordination between the
system capable of responding      committees for the                organizations involved in land
to the needs and determining      management of land in the         management in creating
the supply of public lands        target cities to be established   consensus on the necessity of
required for each year            and made operational.             local management of urban
                                  Capacity building for the         lands. National system under
                                  municipalities to create active   development. (indicator
                                  participation by them in          partially met)
                                  regulating the city land market
                                  through training programs
Design tools for the              The design and                    The model for risk
management of the risk of         implementation of risk            management has been
housing loans with linked         management and the model          developed, training workshops
housing savings products to       for the management of             have been held and Bank
reduce liquidity risk so          resources and applications for    Maskan has adapted it and
balance between the resources     housing saving accounts           there commitments to issue it
and uses can be achieved.                                           to other banks through the
                                                                    Central Bank. (indicator met)
Establishing the basis for fair   Eliminate the preferential        Considering the changes in the
and healthy competition           regulatory treatment for Bank     general conditions and
between financial institutions    Maskan for all market based       monetary and financial policies
offering housing loans in         transactions                      of the government the
order to increase the loans and                                     allocations for the housing
reduce the costs behind them.                                       sector that were revoked last
                                                                    year were reinstated. Presently
                                                                    five private banks are offering
                                                                    housing construction loans.
                                                                    (indicator met)
Oversight on and the             The establishment of the           Presently the majority of
evaluation of subsidies given    committees for the guidance        Housing subsidies are given
to housing and land              and allocation of housing          through the Mehr Housing
                                 subsidies headed by the            Program and the Housing
                                 Ministry of Housing and            committee is based at the
                                 Urban Development.                 office of the president and its
                                 To expand the scope of             secretary is MHUD. (indicator
                                 identifying low income groups      met)
                                 through the creation of local
                                 credit funds
To create effective, proper and Approved tools and programs The bill for targeting subsidies
targeted systems for land and for targeting demand-side will have an impact on the
housing subsidies                subsidies                      method and amount of all
                                                                subsidies including those for
                                                                housing. It will use the
                                                                findings by the studies.
                                                                (indicator met)
The      creation      of      a The design and establishment For the first time ever a
comprehensive and updated of            Housing     information housing information database
information      system      for database                       has been created as the result
overseeing the housing market                                   of the studies by TUB and is



                                                66
and to inform investors and                                    accessible by the public at
planners                                                       large. (indicator met)

It should also be noted that some of the sub-projects that TUB was unable to start due to time
constraints have been picked up by the related departments at the Ministry and the studies are
being carried out by the exact TORs developed by TUB.

Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The primary hypothesis of the draft ICR hinges on the PDO and indicators and it tries to
define the performance of the project within the scope of those. However it overlooks
some very basic points. The PDO of the project was in fact generic; it's a general
statement that may never be achieved considering the amount of the loan and the size of
the target neighborhoods. The fact remains that even with a full 100% implementation the
overall qualitative objective of the project may not have been achieved. The same applies
to indicators in the way they have been discussed.
The ICR assumes that the three APL structure, the fact all but one of the triggers for
entering into APL2 were policy based and had nothing to do with the physical projects,
and the generalities used in project design were just accidental or done by oversight. This
was obviously not the case and as stated in the borrowers contribution the project was
something brand new for Iran and there was no easy way to start such an operation. The
physical interventions were meant to set examples and to soften the resistance of those
who opposed the policy initiatives. No one involved in the design of the project was
simplistic or naïve enough to believe that 14 million dollars worth of physical projects
was going to solve all of the problems of the informal settlements in each of the target
cities, nor were 12 studies going to revolutionize Iranian housing, land or finance policy
overnight. And while the idea of concentrating the projects into smaller areas or poverty
clusters was mulled over, it was deemed politically impossible as it would've led to anger
by others living in the same areas and not being covered by the project, and just as
importantly massive rises in the land prices in the target areas. There simply was no easy
way to start this project and ensure national impact. Furthermore the PDOs and the
triggers were meant to be revised; the issue was raised in the last three missions but was
never covered due to the density of the missions and lack of time, the fact that there were
so few, and other more important priorities at the time. It was always assumed that they
will be discussed during the final year of the project and before the start of an extension.
Something that obviously never happened and nevertheless almost all of the triggers have
indeed been met.
There are also other general points in the draft ICR that seem too hasty such as raising
outcome indicators. The simple fact that everyone was in agreement on was that in areas
such as informal settlements outcome indicators take time to change and no improvement
in school attendance or health bench marks was going to happen instantaneously or in a
year or two. What had always been discussed was to go back and look at them a couple
of years after the end of APL1.
As stated repeatedly in the borrower's contribution the true PDO of UUHRP was to
jumpstart the Iranian national program, and to support it through a 12 year process and to


                                             67
the support and back it within a 12 year program, to ensure it had the tools to correctly
asses the problem and plan for it, and to ensure it had planned for adequate funding,
which would be in the billions of dollars, for its implementation. To that end the project
has been a resounding success. Although it would've been preferable to have the Bank
along during APL2 and APL3, there is national will and determination by the government
to eliminate this issue, and that of housing for the lower income groups.
Furthermore the estimates for both completed projects and disbursements are inaccurate.
The PMU is continuously submitting invoices as they are cleared by the supervision
consultants and now believes that final disbursement from the project and indeed the loan
will clearly pass the 60% mark, ironically with most of the planned physical interventions
having been implemented. An updated physical progress report is enclosed as a separate
file.
After the general comments the PMU would also like to address specific statements or
points in the draft ICR:
Paragraph one on page four: "In addition, by the fourth year of project implementation, it
was clear that the APL2 would not be financed through the Bank, making the reform
aspect of the project less significant, and elevating the importance of the investment on
upgrading within the project." This sentence does not correspond with the understanding
of the PMU, and we would question the adequacy of communication on this issue from
the Bank. Also on page 13 Factors subject to government or implementing agency
control:
Item (vi) "Incomplete design..." had been discussed extensively in the past. To reiterate
the argument in abbreviated form: Ministry of Housing is not in charge of building
roads/sewage systems/schools/health centers/etc. in the country. The line ministries and
organizations have their own rules and regulations which have to be followed either
because of standing laws or to ensure that they will take over the projects and run them
once they are completed. For example schools have to be built based on the type designs
of the Ministry of Education and the fact that UUHRP was able to make modifications in
those designs was a major accomplishment. There simply was no other way to do this.
On page 15 for the first item in the table ICR's assessment of the risk is plain wrong,
there have been recent missions by the IMF to Iran in continuation of the past discussions.
Reforms in the financial sector are not "driven" or "dictated" by external bodies, rather
they offer technical assistance to Iran's Central Bank and will continue with or without
their presence, and are indeed continuing. The number of new private banks established
in the past few years and the speed by which they are capturing a large share of deposits
is proof of that point. Furthermore the relationship between the "current geopolitical
context of Iran and prevailing UN sanctions" and the financial sector reforms is very
unclear.
The last item is also wrong, Iranian guidelines have moved closer to those of the Bank in
recent years, much of it because of the World Bank projects. The amendments to Iranian
procurement laws, especially for consultancies, have been documented in all World Bank
projects.
On page 17 and the triggers table there seems to be some confusion, as stated earlier
these were to be discussed and revised but having said that a number of these have indeed
been met. It had been explained during the missions that due to time constraints APL1
would produce the tools and mechanisms for implementing these, they would be



                                           68
implemented in APL2 and assessed in APl3. Nevertheless all but one of the triggers has
been met and when these were written no one envisaged that down the line Iran would
embark on one of the largest and most rapid social housing programs undertaken
anywhere in the world.
On page 23 the data on interest rates and inflation is extremely outdated and wrong. As
elsewhere in the world inflation and interest rates have ebbed in Iran. Also contrary to
what has been stated it is within the scope of the massive housing program undertaken by
the government that the timeliness and importance of the studies that had been carried out
by TUB has become evident and they are being put to use.
On much of what has been labeled as weak links again a gentle reminder that due to the
initial delays much of the time and energy of the PMU staff was spent of catching up and
correcting early mistakes and the project simply ran out of time. The assumption had
been the extension would give it the time it needed to cover the delayed or weak sections.
On procurement and with the moderately satisfactory rating it should also be noted that
with all the problems and delays the project signed 182 contracts during its
implementation.
The table in page 23 needs to be updated with the attached file showing the completed
projects.
On the issue of SIAs, on page 24, again the project used the TOR that it was given by the
Bank and was told that it had to replicate what had been done elsewhere.
Also it is unclear why physical projects had to finish by the project's end to measure
outcome or whether that could even be done. If a school had been finished in November
how would one even start to measure its outcome when the new school year doesn't start
till next September?
In regards to Community Enabling component was not launched during the MTR mission.
Rather its first two contracts were signed around then, after almost a year of back and
forth on the TORs and other procurement steps.
On Page 25 for the Municipal Capacity Development sub-component, the "Training
Needs Assessment and Design of Training Programs" project was indeed completed and
its final output was sent to the Bank on August 8, 2009. The project won a very
prestigious award as the research of the year and the Bank was informed of that fact. The
Bank TTL congratulated the project. Also the Municipalities Organization has taken full
ownership of the study is developing training and capacity building activities based on its
findings.
On page 26, the fact that only 39% of the budget of TUB was disbursed has a great deal
to do with the delays in issuing no objections. The unit had prepared and finished the
TORs for many of the other studies early enough to ensure their implementation but
extreme delays in responses and NOs made that impossible.
The fourth paragraph is also not very clear. TUB was supposed to only carry out studies
in APL1 and to lobby for their implementation. This has been stressed in the initial Bank
report on strategies for the housing sector, the action plan, as well as the PAD and the
triggers which were prepared for this section were based on this exact rationing (refer to
pages 45, 68 and 69).
ON TUB accomplishments the updated table enclosed in the borrower's contribution
should be used. For example it should be noted that on housing subsidies the project for
the first time ever managed to calculate the exact subsidies allocated to the housing sector



                                            69
from 2001 to 2006 by 20 different government and public entities, something which has
been invaluable to those working on the housing sector strategies. From 2006 onwards
subsidies have been documented within the scope of the Mehr Housing Program and
therefore the studies have achieved the indicators that were set for them.
Based on this and the table enclosed in the borrower's contribution the conclusion should
be reconsidered.
On Economic analysis page 27 the following should be noted:
It had always been expected that the long time lag between the feasibility studies and
implementation would lead to design and scope modifications which would affect the
analyses.
The economic analysis report was based on the TOR and criteria agreed on with the Bank
in 2009.
Regretfully and due to an oversight the full reports have not been sent to the Bank
although the tables and maps have. The consultant has been asked to submit full reports
in English and they will be forwarded to the Bank within the few days.
In regards to the factor for converting financial to economic costs, the project used the
number that it had been given by the Bank and at no time it was formally asked to use a
different number. The use of a figure from a 1998 report seems extremely arbitrary. It
should be noted that the Iranian government has been actively reducing or removing
subsidies in recent years and the assumption used is very outdated.
The project will review and respond to the point about the 50 year asset life and 27 year
O&M costs.
On page 30, at no point were there any discussions on poverty impacts alleviations.
While the project did include some enabling activities meant to help the local residents,
benchmarking their impact due to their pilot nature and limited scope did not make sense.
As stated earlier MHUD has ventured into work a large number of other ministries and
entities, expanding this would've just added to its burden.
Some of the lessons learnt points have been answered in the borrower's contribution. As
a reference point it should be noted a simpler project may have been easier to implement
but it would've never helped identify the vulnerabilities ort issues in the system, or in any
realistic manner help pave the way for the national program. Iran's development budget
disbursement for last year is close to 14 billion dollars, disbursement was not the issue in
this project. The PMU, UDRO and MHUD still believe the issue was not the size or level
of complication of the project, but rather the preparation and the time allocated for the
preparation. In retrospect we shouldn't hit the ground running and some of the units
should've been trained well in advance of the implementation launch.
One final note, on page 56 the drop-in center is indeed in the target neighborhood but not
in the vicinity of any physical upgrading project.
Needless to say and considering the lifting of restrictions for missions to Iran it would've
been preferable to have an ICR mission come to the project and discuss and verify the
points here.

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                             70
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
1. Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA7) ­ Fiscal Year 2004-2005 ­ Urban Upgrading
    and Housing Reform Project. Panel Report.
2. Office Memorandum ­ Urban Upgrading housing Reform Program ­ PAD Review Meeting ­
    Decision Memorandum. October 23, 2003.
3. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) ­ Iran Urban Upgrading Housing Reform Project. May 3,
    2004.
4. Written comments by the peer reviewers on the ICR from: Dean Cira, Lead Urban
    Specialist,(EASVS) and Barjor Mehta, Senior Urban Specialist, (AFTUW).
5. Written comments were received from Robert Maurer, Lead Urban Specialist, (MNSSD),
    Thomas Zearley, (OPCIL), Robert Bou Jaoude, Senior Financial Management Specialist,
    (MNAFM), and Sepehr Fotovat, Senior Procurement Specialist, (MNAPR).
6. Loan Agreement ­ Urban Upgrading Housing Reform Project. July 17, 2004.
7. Project Status Report ­ Seq #01 Archived Version ­ Urban Upgrading Housing Reform
    Project. August 8, 2004.
8. Project Status Report ­ Seq #02 Archived Version ­ Urban Upgrading Housing Reform
    Project. December 7, 2004.
9. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #03 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. April 14, 2005.
10. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #04 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. November 11, 2005.
11. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #05 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. February 2, 2006.
12. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #06 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. September 9, 2006.
13. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #07 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. June 29, 2007.
14. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #08 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. December 10, 2007.
15. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #09 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. March 13, 2008.
16. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #10 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. December 29, 2008.
17. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #11 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. June 29, 2009.
18. Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ­ Seq #12 Archived Version ­ Urban
    Upgrading Housing Reform Project. December 25, 2009.
19. Aide Memoire Identification Mission, June 21-July 3, 2002.
20. Aide Memoire Pre-Appraisal Mission, January 12-23, 2003.
21. Aide Memoire Appraisal Mission, November 9-23, 2003.
22. Aide Memoire Project Launch Mission, October 13-20, 2004.
23. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, February 26-March 9, 2005
24. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, September 4-14, 2005.
25. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, December 8-21, 2005.
26. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, July 1-20, 2006.
27. Aide Memoire Project MTR Supervision Mission, May 14-June 2, 2007.
28. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, January 23-February 6, 2008.
29. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, November 9-25, 2008.
30. Aide Memoire Project Supervision Mission, May 1-12, 2009 (Not Issued).


                                           71
Annex 10. Project Background

The project objectives, under the APL1, were to be achieved through three main components: (i)
urban upgrading, community enabling and capacity building programs in up to 5 selected cities;
(ii) technical assistance for housing sector reforms; and (iii) technical assistance and capacity
building for project implementation.

Although the focus of this ICR is APL1, APL2 (US$ 80 million over a four year period) was
proposed to cover two components: scaling-up urban upgrading to another 15 provincial capital
cities and launching of housing sector reforms. These reforms would focus on deepening the
housing finance sector through eliminating regulatory preferences for public banks and ensuring a
level playing filed and competitive environment for all banks providing housing finance. It would
also attempt to support government's effort to streamline the housing subsidies system by moving
towards a more transparent and direct subsidies that relay on demand-side instruments targeted to
poor households. APL3 (US$ 150 million over a three year period) would build on the
foundation laid during the previous phases. It will cover three components. The first will further
scale up upgrading to all remaining provincial capital cities and address the more complex
problems of the revitalization of run down historic city centers. The second component would
focus on building municipal management capacity in decentralized context. The third component
would aim at increasing the amount of long-term resources for the housing finance channeled
through the financial markets.

Component A: Urban Upgrading (estimated cost: US$ 89.62 million; revised cost: US$ 90.33
million; actual cost US$ XX million). The component laid the foundations for launching and
sustaining country-wide urban upgrading programs in Iran. The Program was designed to be
implemented in pre-identified cities and neighborhoods that meet specific criteria in terms of
income and level of services. The city of Zahedan, the capital of Sistan-Balushetan, the province
having the worst housing and employment conditions, has been identified as the first city with
four categories of neighborhoods for upgrading. An operating model will be developed in
Zahedan for adaptation and generalization to other cities. Participating cities will be selected by
the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) among the 28 provincial capitals based on their
housing and employment conditions and readiness criteria such as: (i) adopting government's
national upgrading strategy; (ii) agreeing to the technical assistance and capacity building
program, (iii) preparing a demand driven city upgrading and enabling program through a
participatory and inclusive process; and (iv) agreeing to sign a performance contract specifying
the commitments and obligations of the State, the municipality, participating communities, and
relevant organizations operating at city level. The component will consist of four sub-components
that address the implementation of APL-l and the preparation of APL2. This component
constituted around 90% of the total project financing at appraisal.

Sub-component A-l: Design and supervision of upgrading programs in APL1 cities - Design
and supervision of upgrading programs in APL-l cities involving the financing of City
Development Strategies (CDS), feasibility and design studies for the upgrading programs
including environmental and social assessments.

Sub-component A-2: Implementation of upgrading programs in APL-l cities through:

(a) Physical Upgrading Programs - Consisted of: (i) improving access to basic education, health
and social services through the rehabilitation and service upgrading of preschool, schools and



                                                72
health facilities in poor neighborhoods; (ii) the rehabilitation and construction of roads, sidewalks,
drainage and street lighting; (iii) provision of small community water tanks and limited extension
of water and sewerage infrastructure within existing public rights of way and approved land use
plans; (iii) public markets, community centers, youth, cultural, recreation centers, childcare
facilities and playgrounds for children. No land expropriation or involuntary resettlement within
this component and for the latter type of projects, securing the proper management and the
sustainability of the built facilities would be a prerequisite for project financing.

(b) Community Enabling Programs - Focus will be on mobilizing communities, municipalities,
CBOs and NGOs and in building their capacities to participate in urban upgrading, community
development and poverty programs. This involves managing small socio-economic programs at
settlement level and creating lasting partnerships with local governments. This component will
build on the wealth of local initiatives, social networks and spontaneous mutual support systems
that exist in the major cities of Iran. It will aim at improving access to specialized social services
and on satisfying the needs of vulnerable groups such as the disabled, children, youth, women
head of households and elderly at risk. The two key activities under this component will be
identified, designed and implemented by local NGOs, CBOs, PVOs, national and international
universities and municipalities with close participation of the local beneficiary communities and
local governments. Includes: (i) participatory implementation of socio-economic programs in the
informal settlements of participating cities. This will be implemented through joint ventures of
international and national NGOs, CBOs and municipalities which will be recruited competitively
according to World Bank procedures. Activities will involve the design and implementation of
demand-driven programs that include among others: training of trainers for adult literacy and
post-literacy; revolving school textbooks, primary health care; campaigns against drug addiction,
urban violence and safe neighborhoods, social networks for working mothers, clean
neighborhood campaigns, educational and integration support for children with learning
difficulties; public health awareness campaigns; handicraft training; vocational and skill training
for self-employment; promotion of mutual support groups; small businesses and IT training;
micro-credit training, etc. (ii) capacity building program in community enabling for NGOs, CBOs
and participating Municipalities. Particular attention will be paid to institutionalize the
mechanisms for community participation in urban upgrading and in socio-economic development
programs in informal settlements and at the city level.

(c) Municipal Capacity Building Programs - Involved the provision of technical assistance and
institutional strengthening to participating municipalities aiming at strengthening the role of
municipalities to plan and implement physical upgrading and community enabling programs.
This sub-component will focus on the following areas: (i) urban management, to prepare
municipalities to operate in the context of decentralized urban, land and housing management
through: (i) TA, training and equipment to strengthen land management and urban planning
capacities. Building capacity in this area of urban management will be particularly relevant also
to the upcoming CDS strategic planning process; (ii) TA and training to strengthen the
municipality's role in participatory urban planning, investment planning, coordination of
community initiatives and integrated urban development. (ii) financial management, to improve
fiscal management and to strengthen capital and recurrent budgeting and revenue collection. This
will consist of TA, training and equipment to improve revenue collection, with a focus on
incorporating newly regularized neighborhoods in the municipal revenue base, improving cost
recovery of infrastructure and improving returns on municipal assets with a high potential for
revenue generation.

Sub-component A-3: Design of upgrading programs for APL2 cities - Design of upgrading
programs for APL-2 cities involving the financing of feasibility studies for the upgrading


                                                 73
programs in five (5) provincial capital cities including environmental and social assessments in
the participating cities.

Sub-component A-4: Design of financing arrangements for upgrading under APL2 and APL3
- Design of upgrading financing arrangements for APL-2 and APL-3 involving supporting the
MHUD, the MOI and the MPO establish a sustainable financing mechanism for urban upgrading
in Iran. This was aimed to be achieved through added exposure of Iranian policy-makers to best
international practices in the financing of urban upgrading. This sub-component involved the use
of local and international experts and the scheduling of training courses and study tours.

Component B: Housing Sector Reforms (estimated cost: US$ 3 million; revised cost: US$ 3
million; actual cost: US$ XX million). The component aimed at enhancing housing affordability
and the efficient functioning of the housing market in Iran in the long term. It was aimed to
consist of foreign and local technical assistance, training and equipment for implementing the
specific priority actions identified in reforming the housing sector as outlined in the Housing
Sector Strategy and the ensuing Action Plan. These priority actions can be grouped into four areas
of focus: land markets, housing finance, housing subsidies, and housing information. The specific
activities comprised in each area summarized below:

Sub-component B-1: Housing and Land Management - This sub-component aimed to develop
the methodology, systems, procedures, and institutional design for monitoring land market
activity at the city level and, estimating demand for land and triggering a supply response through
rezoning, changing density, or supply of new land for development.

Sub-component B-2: Housing Finance - Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training
and funding for studies to the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) and/or the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Finance (MOEF) to strengthen their capacities to: (i) analyze and manage the liquidity risks
inherent to the various Savings Funds for Housing; (ii) manage the transition to liberalized
mortgage credit, improve capacities to monitor and insure the safety and soundness of increasing
number of banks participating in housing finance, expand housing finance services; (iii) create,
sustain and strengthen capital market capacity to provide access to suitable long term financing
for housing; and (iv) develop funding mechanisms for low income housing such as micro-finance
instruments. In addition, technical assistance, training and funding for studies would be provided
to prepare Bank Maskan to operate in the context of liberalized financial market with particular
attention to streamlining operations, lowering the spreads and improving its capacity to evaluate
and manage risks.

Sub-component B-3: Housing Subsidies - Technical assistance to MHUD to undertake studies
on reforming the housing subsidy system towards a more direct, targeted, and unified system and
the creation of a more manageable monitoring, and implementation mechanism.

Sub-component B-4: Housing Information - Technical assistance to streamline the housing
information system and reduce the fragmentation of databases and output formats.

This component constituted around 3% of the total project financing at appraisal.

Component C: Project Management and Technical Assistance (estimated cost: US$ 2 million;
revised cost: US$ 3 million; actual cost: US$ XX million). This component financed: (i) the cost
of office and ICT equipment required for project management and implementation and; (ii) the
cost of technical assistance for project management and implementation that included hiring of
individual consultants and consulting firms in areas of project management, financial


                                                74
management and procurement, project monitoring and evaluation including the documentation of
the project experience, arranging study tours and training for key policy-makers and PMU staff.
This component constituted around 2%/3%87 of the total project financing at appraisal.
Project Costs: At appraisal, the total project costs were US$ 100 million of which US$ 20
million was to be financed through GoI (see Annex 1, for details).

Procurement: In addition some other problems that the procurement team faced during the
course of the project included:

(i)         Procurement team capacity issues; included lack of capacity for managing the softer
            components i.e consultants were not always properly managed, especially during the
            early stages of the project; delay in identification of packages (especially in Tabriz);
            delay in allocation of land; and lack of proper supervision and monitoring of the
            procurement activities at the early stages of the project implementation.
(ii)        Filing and documentation issues during the early stages of the project; lack of proper
            documentation and filing at early stages of the project in conjunction with the turnover of
            staff resulted in many documents not being traceable. The filing was later improved and
            became satisfactory
(iii)       Unrealistic estimate of time and cost of packages; this included: (i) Cost increases, and
            changes and addition to packages resulted in many post review contracts breaching their
            thresholds, needing Bank's clearance, but in several cases, this was not taken care of until
            after Loan closing date; (ii) unrealistic short execution time estimates for projects (9 ­ 12
            months at the beginning of the project and maximum 18 months at later stages), and
            considering fix prices with no price adjustment clause. This combined with the high
            inflation in the country resulted in contractors failing to complete the packages on time,
            and need for contract amendments at a later stage of contract implementation.
(iv)        Limited due diligence to check the completeness of the package prior to bidding; due
            diligence needed in reviewing packages were complete or not (incomplete designs - since
            designs were standard basic designs of the relevant agencies, these needed to be adjusted
            for the size of the land, and its environment in advance, but in most cases this was done
            after contract award resulting in large amendments and cost over runs).
(v)         Staffing issues; procurement officer of PMU at early stage of project implementation,
            despite being trained on the World Bank procurement, was never on top of things and had
            misunderstandings about the Guidelines, and their flexibility resulting in delayed
            clearances. The lack of understanding among the planning, procurement and technical
            units was mainly rooted in this mismanagement; Retaining staff, early in the project, a
            qualified PMU was established which helped with a very fast start of the project and
            several packages were awarded early into the project, despite all the shortcomings and
            misunderstandings at early stages of each project. But very soon, there were problems
            with payment of salaries for the hired individuals in the PMU, and ever since a good deal
            of precious time was spent by everyone to resolve the issue (including the Bank team
            time), and as the result in addition to the lost time, several qualified people were lost and
            implementation slowed down. This issue was never fully resolved.
(vi)        Lack of ownership of the procurement plan, and as a result limited coordination,
            especially at the beginning of the project; Lack of ownership of the procurement plan at
            the PMU level, preparation, following-up and updating of procurement plans are essential
            for implementation of such projects, but while the official procurement plan was being


87
     Changed to 3% during Launch Mission, October 13-20, 2004


                                                        75
         prepared by the planning department, there were no feedbacks from other departments all
         of which had their own incomplete little plans; moreover, lack of coordination among
         PMU units especially at the beginning of the project implementation.
(vii)    Coordination between respective units across PMU and target cities; lack of coordination
         between Technical unit and Procurement unit at the PMU central level and the PMU's
         representative in the target cities to resolve and make decision on the projects that were at
         the termination stages, due to implementation of work was stalled for longer periods.
(viii)   Resistance in pursuing the selection of international consultants; insistence on having
         smaller consultancy contracts so projects would only be eligible to be bid nationally, as
         obtaining permits for international short listing was difficult and PMU did not want to
         tackle the problem effectively. This resulted in delayed services some of which were not
         achieved during the project's life, and a failure to make use of international experience;
         and lack of experience among local consultants in the required specialty to complete the
         task.




                                                 76
Annex 11. Missions Trajectory


          Aide Memoir (AM)               Mission Dates         Year           Purpose
1.    Identification Mission AM            June 21-July 3      2002   Identification
2.    Pre-Appraisal Mission AM             January 12-23       2003   Pre-Appraisal
3.    Project Appraisal Mission AM        November 9-23        2003   Appraisal
4.    Project Launch Mission AM            October 13-20       2004   Launch
5.    Project Supervision Mission AM    February 26-March 9    2005   Supervision
6.    Project Supervision Mission AM      September 4-14       2005   Supervision
7.    Project Supervision Mission AM      December 8-21        2005   Supervision
8.    Project Supervision Mission AM         July 1-20         2006   Supervision
9.    Project Supervision Mission AM       May 14-June 2       2007   Supervision/MTR
10.   Project Supervision Mission AM   January 23-February 6   2008   Supervision
11.   Project Supervision Mission AM      November 9-25        2008   Supervision/HOM/TTLT
12.   Project Supervision Mission AM         May 1-12          2009   Supervision/HOM/TTLT
      (AM not officially issued)

MTR = Mid Term Review, HOM=Handover Mission, TTLT=Task Team Leader Transition




                                              77
        Annex 12. List of Projects
                                                                        
                 PROJECTS UNDER IMPLEMENTATION AND IN THE PIPELINE FOR BANDAR ABBAS, ZAHEDAN, 
                                      KERMANSHAH, SANANDAJ AND TABRIZ 
         
        This section lists all the ongoing and upcoming projects for Bander Abbas, Zahedan, Kermanshah, 
        Sanandaj  and  Tabriz.  Information  provided  below  is  based  on  the  Procurement  Plan  received 
        during December 2009. 
         
        Bandar Abbas 
             
                                                                                   Cost (Million                         Physical 
Project          Year                      Project Name                                             Current Status                   ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                       US$)                              Progress 
                                                                  Contract 1 
                FY05     Canal Construction in Behest Zahra (with and 
   1                                                                                   $ 1.47         Completed           100%       16%    16%    1.33 
                07       without amendment) 
                                                                     Contract 2 
                FY05     Construction of one Secondary School, North 
   2                                                                                                  Completed           100%       26%           6.45 
                07       Dohezar (with and without amendment) 
                                                                                       $ 1.03  
                FY05     Construction of one Secondary Schools, North 
   3                                                                                                  Completed           100%       26%           6.45 
                07       Dohezar (with and without amendment) 

                                                                 Contract 3 
                         Construction of Canal in Isni/Gorazan Khoor 
   4            FY07                                                                  $ 1.30          Completed           100%       16%    16%    1.29 
                         Upgrading in Isni (with and without amendment) 
                                                                   Contract 4 
                         Construction of Shahi Madani Secondary School                                  Under 
   5            FY07                                                                                                       94%       20%           2.6 
                         in Dorahi Isni ­ Retender                                                  Implementation 
                         Construction of Guidance School in Isni ­ 
   6            FY07                                                                                  Completed           100%       16%           2.15 
                         Retender 
                                                                                                    No Progress on 
                                                                                      $ 1.44         the Project due 
   7            FY07     Health Center in Shomal DoHezar ­ Retender                                  to land issues ­      0%        42%    38%    2.71 
                                                                                                       Project to be 
                                                                                                    TERMINATED 
                                                                                                          Under 
   8            FY07     Health Center in Isni  Retender                                                                   82%       41%    38%    2.69 
                                                                                                    Implementation 
                                                                     Contract 5 
                                                                                                        Contract 
                                                                                                    Awarded Work 
                                                                                                    Pending for the 
                         Construction of Technical and Vocational                                   last 12 months 
   9            FY08                                                                  $ 0.93                               0%        24%           4.07 
                         Training Center  Saman Gozar                                                ­ Project to be 
                                                                                                    TERMINATED 
                                                                                                          and 
                                                                                                    RETENDERED 
                                                                     Contract 6 
                                                                                                        Under 
  10            FY08     Construction of Park in Isni                                                                      94%       15%    14%    1.32 
                                                                                                    Implementation 
                                                                                      $  1.88 
                                                                                                        Under 
  11            FY08     Sport Complex on Gousuzan Canal in Isni                                                           96%       13%    12%    1.31 
                                                                                                    Implementation 
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 




                                                                     78
                                                                                     Cost (Million                           Physical 
Project          Year                       Project Name                                                   Current Status                ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                         US$)                                Progress 
                                                                       Contract 7 
                                                                                                           Under 
  12            FY08     Roads Upgrading in Isni                                                                               98%       26%    24%    1.99 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                                                           Under 
  13            FY08     Construction of Water Network, Isni                                                                   98%       40%    36%    2.92 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                                        $  2.31 
                                                                                                           Under 
  14            FY08     Construction of Sewerage Network in Isni                                                              98%       28%    25%    2.28 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                                                           Under 
  15            FY08     Street Lighting in Isni                                                                               98%       29%    27%    2.09 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                       Contract 8 
                                                                                                           Under 
  16            FY09     Upgrading of all roads of Dorahi Isini                                                                97%       35%    33%    2.78 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                                                           Under 
  17            FY09     Upgrading of all roads of  Behesht Zahra                       $  3.47                                97%       27%    26%    2.26 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                                                           Under 
  18            FY09     Upgrading of all roads of  North of Dohezar                                                           97%       30%    29%    2.53 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                                   Contract 9 
                         Roads Upgrading  in East of Isini Canal  30 M                                     Under 
  19            FY09                                                                                                           87%       25%    23%    1.88 
                         width                                                                         Implementation 
                         Water network Upgrading of Isini Canal  30 M                                      Under 
  20            FY09                                                                    $  1.95                                87%       62%    59%    4.26 
                         width                                                                         Implementation 
                                                                                                           Under 
  21            FY09     Electrical Upgrading of Isini Canal  30 M width                                                       87%       25%    23%    1.88 
                                                                                                       Implementation 
                                                   Project Pipeline (to be tendered or retendered soon) 
                                                               Contract 10 
                         Construction of Hosseinpour Boys Elementary 
  22            FY09                                                                    $ 1.78                Pipeline                   13%    12%    1.35 
                         School in North of Dohezar 
                                                                 Contract 11 
                         Construction of Technical and Vocational 
  23            FY09                                                                    $  1.17               Pipeline                   24%           4.07 
                         Training Center  Saman Gozar 
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 
             




                                                                       79
        Zahedan 
         
                                                                                Cost (Million                           Physical 
Project       Year                      Project Name                                                  Current Status                ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                    US$)                                Progress 
                                                            Contract 1 
             FY05     Roads Upgrading in Karim Abad (with and 
   1                                                                               $  2.26             Completed         100%       13%    11%    1.31 
             07       without amendment) 
                                                                  Contract 2 
             FY05     Roads Upgrading in Siksoozi Abad (with and 
   2                                                                               $  2.13             Completed         100%       12%    11%    1.28 
             07       without amendment) 

                                                                Contract 3 
             FY05     Construction of Balal Health Center (with and 
   3                                                                                                   Completed         100%       31%    27%    2.24 
             07       without amendment) 
             FY05     Construction of a Girls Primary School (with and 
   4                                                                               $  0.97             Completed         100%       38%    33%    2.09 
             07       without amendment) 
             FY05     Construction of Girls Guidance School in Siksoozi 
   5                                                                                                   Completed         100%       15%           2.65 
             07       (with and without amendment) 
                                                           Contract 4 
   6         FY07     Secondary School in Karhane Namak  Retender                                   Completed            100%       16%           1.78 
                                                                                                      Under 
   7         FY07     High School in Shir Abad  Retender                                                                  63%       17%           1.94 
                                                                                                  Implementation 
                                                                                   $  1.88            Under 
   8         FY07     Health Center in Shir Abad  Retender                                                                87%       26%    23%    1.79 
                                                                                                  Implementation 
                                                                                                      Under 
   9         FY07     Health Center in Posht Garage  Retender                                                             95%       18%    15%    1.45 
                                                                                                  Implementation 
                                                                  Contract 5 
                                                                                                      Under 
  10         FY07     Roads Upgrading in Shir Abad  Kahrir Sazan                   $ 0.52                                 94%       22%    21%    1.61 
                                                                                                  Implementation 
                                                               Contract 6 
                      Construction of Technical and Vocational Center                                 Under 
  11         FY07                                                                  $ 0.85                                 53%       23%           3.14 
                      for Men and Women                                                           Implementation 
                                                               Contract 7 
                      Bridge Construction and Canal Upgrading in Shir                                 Under 
  12         FY08                                                                                                         50%       19%    18%    1.58 
                      Abad  Retender                                                              Implementation
                      Construction of 2 Bridges & Canal and Roads                  $ 2.00 
                                                                                                      Under 
  13         FY08     Upgrading in Shir Abad (continuation of first                                                       50%       26%    25%    2.15 
                                                                                                  Implementation 
                      project)
                                                  Contract 8 (Extension to Contract 3) 
                      Completion of Balal Health Center, a Girls 
  14         FY08     Primary School and a Girls Guidance School in           $ 0.56                   Completed         100%       26%           1.91 
                      Siksouzi, Zahedan   Ahjam  
                                                                  Contract 9 
  15         FY09     Upgrading of 28 Schools                                      $ 1.06              Completed         100%       44%    47%    1.96 
                                                             Contract 10 
                      Upgrading and Lighting of the Roads above 8m                                    Under 
  16         FY09                                                                  $  1.01                                55%       26%    25%    1.91 
                      on 1500 m in Karkhane Namak & Posht Garage                                  Implementation
                                              Project Pipeline (to be tendered or retendered soon) 
                                                              Contract 11 
  17         FY10     Construction of Cultural House in  Babayan                   $  0.18               Pipeline         20%       14%    13%    1.41 
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 
         




                                                                  80
        Kermanshah 
         
                                                                                   Cost 
                                                                                                                Physical 
Project       Year                      Project Name                             (Million     Current Status                ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                                                Progress 
                                                                                  US$) 
                                                                   Contract 1 
                                                                                                 Contract 
             FY05     Construction of Guidance School in Shater Abad,             $ 0.28 
   1                                                                                           Terminated         62%       14%           1.45 
             07       Kermanshah (with and without amendment)                    of $0.33 
                                                                                                Retendered 
                                                                   Contract 2 
                                                                                                 Contract 
             FY05     Construction of Youth Development Center in 
   2                                                                                           Terminated         62%       33%    31%    2.7 
             07       Koli Abad (with and without amendment) 
                                                                                                Retendered 
                                                                                                 Contract 
             FY05     Construction of one PreSchool in DolatAbad                 $ 0.26 of 
   3                                                                                           Terminated         62%       16%    11%    1.28 
             07       (with and without amendment)                                 $0.45 
                                                                                                Retendered 
                                                                                                 Contract 
             FY05     Construction of one PreSchool in ShaterAbad 
   4                                                                                           Terminated         62%       16%    11%    1.28 
             07       (with and without amendment) 
                                                                                                Retendered 
                                                                   Contract 3 
                                                                                                 Contract 
             FY05     Construction of MuliPurpose Hall (with and 
   5                                                                                           Terminated         76%       13%    12%    1.33 
             07       without amendment) 
                                                                                 $ 0.09 of      Retendered 
                                                                                   $0.38         Contract 
             FY05     Construction of Cultural/Sports Hall (with and 
   6                                                                                           Terminated         31%       32%    29%    2.31 
             07       without amendment) 
                                                                                                Retendered 
                                                                   Contract 4 
                                                                                                 Contract 
             FY05     Construction of Health Center in Jafar Abad (with          $ 0.15 of 
   7                                                                                           Terminated ­       39%       24%    20%    1.59 
             07       and without amendment                                      $0.43 
                                                                                                Retendered 
                                                             Contract 5 
                      Construction of Park (Kamarbandi) in Shater                                 Under 
   8         FY07                                                                                                 30%       14%    14%    1.46 
                      Abad                                                                    Implementation 
                                                                                                  Under 
   9         FY07     Construction of Park (Setareh) in Koli Abad                                                 30%       14%    13%    1.41 
                                                                                              Implementation
                                                                                   $ 1.25 
                      Installation of mechanical and electrical                                   Under 
  10         FY07                                                                                                 30%       37%    35%    3.12 
                      equipment of Abuzar Park in Jafar Abad                                  Implementation
                      Installation of mechanical and electrical                                   Under 
  11         FY07                                                                                                 30%       37%    35%    3.12 
                      equipment of Basij Park in Shater Abad                                  Implementation 
                                                            Contract 6 
                      Construction and improvement of sidewalk in                                 Under 
  12         FY07                                                                                                 15%       41%    39%    3.00 
                      Jafar Abad                                                              Implementation 
                                                                                                  Under 
  13         FY07     Construction of Drainage Network in Jafar Abad                                              15%       34%    32%    2.44 
                                                                                              Implementation 
                                                                                  $ 0.85 
                      Construction and improvement of sidewalks in                                Under 
  14         FY07                                                                                                 15%       41%    39%    3.00 
                      Shater Abad                                                             Implementation 
                      Construction of Drainage Network in Shater                                  Under 
  15         FY07                                                                                                 15%       24%    22%    1.82 
                      Abad                                                                    Implementation 
                                                                   Contract 7 
                                                                                               Project to be 
                      Construction of Specialized Health Clinic in Dolat                      TERMINATED 
  16         FY08                                                                 $ 0.56                          0%        29%    25%    1.90 
                      Abad (retender)  Saman Gozar                                             ­ Contractor 
                                                                                                  Issues 
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 




                                                                    81
                                                                                  Cost 
                                                                                                               Physical 
Project       Year                      Project Name                            (Million     Current Status                ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                                               Progress 
                                                                                 US$) 
                                                             Contract 8 
                      Upgrading of Taleghani Blvd. Dolat Abad ­                                 Starting 
  17         FY08                                                                                                25%       39%    36%    2.26 
                      Retender                                                               Implementation
                      Improvement of Asphalt of Dolat Abads Road ­                              Starting 
  18         FY08                                                                                                25%       69%    66%    5.91 
                      Retender                                                               Implementation
                      Construction and Improvement of sidewalks in                              Starting 
  19         FY08                                                                                                25%       64%    62%    5.35 
                      Dolat Abad ­ Retender                                                  Implementation
                                                                         $ 1.64 
                      Construction of Drainage Network in Dolat Abad                            Starting 
  20         FY08                                                                                                25%       24%    22%    1.82 
                      ­ Retender                                                             Implementation
                      Construction and Improvement of Sidewalks in                              Starting 
  21         FY08                                                                                                25%       61%    59%    4.97 
                      Koli Abad ­ Retender                                                   Implementation
                      Construction of Drainage Network in Koli Abad ­                           Starting 
  22         FY08                                                                                                25%       19%    17%    1.51 
                      Retender                                                               Implementation
                                                                 Contract 9 

                                                                                                Starting 
  23         FY08     Construction of Sewerage Network in Koli Abad                                              55%       32%    30%    2.56 
                                                                                             Implementation

                      Construction of Sewerage Network in Shater                 $ 3.09         Starting 
  24         FY08                                                                                                55%       23%    22%    1.84 
                      Abad                                                                   Implementation 
                                                                                                Starting 
  25         FY08     Construction of Sewerage Network in Jafar Abad                                             55%       31%    30%    2.35 
                                                                                             Implementation 
                                                              Contract 10 
                      Completion of MuliPurpose Hall (same as                                   Starting 
  26         FY08                                                                                                                          
                      contract 3)                                                            Implementation
                                                                            $ 0.83  
                      Completion of Health Center in Jalal Abad (same                           Starting 
  27         FY08                                                                                                                          
                      as contract 4)                                                         Implementation 
                                                                 Contract 11 
                                                                                                Starting 
  28         FY08     Health Centers in Koli Abad  Retender                                                      15%       17%    12%    1.27 
                                                                                             Implementation
                                                                                 $  1.14  
                                                                                                Starting 
  29         FY08     Guidance School in Dolat Abad  Retender                                                    15%       13%           1.45 
                                                                                             Implementation 
                                                              Contract 12 
                      Completion of Youth Development Center in                                 Starting 
  30         FY08                                                                                                                          
                      Kouli Abad (1212002NCBp/contract 2)                                    Implementation
                      Completion of a PreSchools in DolatAbad                                   Starting 
  31         FY08                                                                                                                          
                      (1212002NCBp/contract 2)                                               Implementation
                      Completion of a Guidance School in Shater Abad                            Starting 
  32         FY08                                                           $  2.06                                                        
                      (1212001NCB/contract 1)                                                Implementation
                      Completion of a CulturalSports Hall in Shater                             Starting 
  33         FY08                                                                                                                          
                      Abad (1212003NCB/contract 3)                                           Implementation 
                      Completion of a PreSchools in ShaterAbad                                  Starting 
  34         FY08                                                                                                                          
                      (1212002NCBp/contract 2)                                               Implementation 
                                                                 Contract 13 
                                                                                                Starting 
  35         FY08     Construction of a Library in Jafar Abad                                                    22%       14%    12%    1.25 
                                                                                             Implementation
                                                                                                Starting 
  36         FY08     Construction of a TVTC in Dolat Abad                       $ 2.21                          22%       26%           3.84 
                                                                                             Implementation 
                                                                                                Starting 
  37         FY08     Construction of a Library in Dolat Abad                                                    22%       13%    12%    1.21 
                                                                                             Implementation 
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 

         




                                                                  82
        Sanandaj 
         
                                                                                 Cost 
                                                                                                              Physical 
Project       Year                      Project Name                           (Million     Current Status                ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                                              Progress 
                                                                                US$) 
                                                                 Contract 1 
                                                                                                Under 
   1         FY08     Water and Sewerage Network of Islam Abad                                                  46%       23%    20%    1.81 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                                                                                                Under 
   2         FY08     Water and Sewerage Network of Fajreh                      $  1.95                         46%       18%    14%    1.28 
                                                                                            Implementation
                                                                                                Under 
   3         FY08     Water and Sewerage Network of Abbas Abad                                                  46%       48%    45%    3.55 
                                                                                            Implementation
                                                              Contract 2 
                      Demolition and Construction of Tarbiat Guidance                           Under 
   4         FY08                                                                                               35%       16%           1.91 
                      School In Farjeh (10 classes)                                         Implementation
                                                                           $ 2.57 
                      Demolition and Construction of Bahmani                                    Under 
   5         FY08                                                                                               35%       16%           1.91 
                      Guidance School in Abbas Abad (20 classes)                            Implementation
                                                             Contract 3 
                      Construction of Connecting Roads in North of 
                                                                                                Under 
   6         FY08     Sanandaj, Taghtaghan, 17 Shahrivar and Gredi              $ 2.77                          30%       15%    14%    1.46 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                      Groul 
                                                                 Contract 4 
                                                                                                Under 
   7         FY08     Electrical Network in 11 Areas / Fajreh                   $ 0.71                          7%        18%    15%    1.55 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                                                                 Contract 5 
                                                                                                Under 
   8         FY08     Roads Upgrading  Taghtaghan                                                               0%        28%    15%    1.39 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                                                                                                Under 
   9         FY08     Roads Upgrading  Islam Abad                                                               0%        33%    17%    1.41 
                                                                                            Implementation
                                                                                $  3.71 
                                                                                                Under 
  10         FY08     Roads Upgrading  Farjeh                                                                   0%        21%    13%    1.33 
                                                                                            Implementation
                                                                                                Under 
  11         FY08     Roads Upgrading  Abbas Abad                                                               0%        21%    23%    1.33 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                                                                 Contract 6 
                                                                                                Under 
  12         FY09     Construction of a Development Training Center                                           No Data     16%    14%    1.38 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                      Construction of 9 class Secondary School in                               Under 
  13         FY09                                                                                             No Data     15%           1.81 
                      Tagahtan                                                              Implementation 
                                                                                $ 1.48 
                                                                                                Under 
  14         FY09     Construction of a Local Library in Abbas Abad                                           No Data     NC     NC     NC 
                                                                                            Implementation 
                      Construction of Central library of Abbas Abad                             Under 
  15         FY09                                                                                             No Data     NC     NC     NC 
                      (Ministry of Education)                                               Implementation 
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 
                                                                      




                                                                  83
        Tabriz 
         
                                                                               Cost 
                                                                                                           Physical 
Project       Year                      Project Name                         (Million    Current Status                ERR    IRR    B/C 
                                                                                                           Progress 
                                                                              US$) 
                                                               Contract 1 
                      Construction of Sports Hall for Sakineh                                Under 
   1         FY09                                                                                            5%        17%    15%    1.26 
                      Elementary & Guidance School in Mullah Zainal                      Implementation
                      Upgrading of Ibn Sina Elementary School in                             Under 
   2         FY09                                                                                            5%        18%    17%    1.35 
                      Ahmed Abad                                                         Implementation
                      Upgrading of Allameh Helli Elementary School in                        Under 
   3         FY09                                                                                            5%        32%    29%    2.34 
                      Ahmed Abad                                                         Implementation
                                                                              $ 2.39  
                      Construction of Sports Halls for Ostad Shahriar                        Under 
   4         FY09                                                                                            5%        33%    30%    3.05 
                      Multipurpose Centre                                                Implementation
                      Construction of a Youth Development Center in                          Under 
   5         FY09                                                                                            5%        17%    13%    1.5 
                      Molla Zeynal                                                       Implementation
                      Demolition and reconstruction of Imam Mousa                            Under 
   6         FY09                                                                                            5%        19%    19%    1.96 
                      Sadr Guidance School in Seylan Ghoushkhaneh                        Implementation
                                                                Contract 2 
                      Construction of a Health Center in Seylan                              Under 
   7         FY09                                                                                            7%        24%    19%    1.7 
                      Ghoushkhaneh                                                       Implementation
                      Expansion of the existing library in Seylan                            Under 
   8         FY09                                                            $ 0.93                          7%        32%    18     1.69 
                      Ghoushkhaneh                                                       Implementation
                                                                                             Under 
   9         FY09     Construction of Library in Ahmad Abad                                                  7%        22%    20%    2.05 
                                                                                         Implementation
                                                               Contract 3 
                                                                                             Under 
  10         FY09     Roads Upgrading in Sehlab Ghoshkhana                                                 No Data     23%    22%    1.92 
                                                                                         Implementation
                                                                              $  4.49 
                      Construction of Water and Sewerage Network in                          Under 
  11         FY09                                                                                          No Data     14%    13%    1.42 
                      Seylab Ghoshkhanay and Ahmed Abad                                  Implementation
        NC = Not Calculated; ND= No Data 




                                                                 84
MAP




      85
