Docoes Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
A/.v -         ~  oa9 RK'
Report No. P-4302-PAKC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO ustgo.o MILLION
TO THE
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
May 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =  Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
Rupee 1.         =  Paisa 100
Rupee 1          =  US$0.0625
US$1.            =  PRs 16.0
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -       Asian Development Bank
AEB     -       Area Electricity Board
AG      -       Auditor General
CDWP    -       Central Development Working Party
CIDA    -       Canadian International Development Agency
CIP     -       Core Investment Program
ECC     -       Economic Coordination Coummittee
ECNEC   -       Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERWG            Energy Review Working Group
ESL     -       Energy Sector Loan
GOP     -       Government of Pakistan
HSD     -       High Speed Diesel
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding
KESC    -       Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, Ltd.
LCB     -       Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC    -       Long-Run Marginal Cost
MPD     -       Ministry of Planning and Development
MPNR    -       Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
NEPC    -       National Energy Policy Committee
OGDC    -       Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PARCO   -       Pakistan Arab Company
PMDC    -       Pakistan Mineral Development Zz'rporation
PSO     -       Pakistan State Oil Company
SGC     -       Southern Gas Company
SNGPL   -       Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd.
USAID   -       United States Agency for International Development
UNDP    -       United Nations Development Program
WAPDA   -       Water and Power Development Authority
GOP AND WAPDA's FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
IOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWEL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Guarantor:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  US$90.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project                 The main objectives of the proposed project are to
Description:          assist WAPDA in meeting the electricity demand in the
country by adding 200 MW of thermal capacity while
improving the fuel efficiency of the combustion
turbines at Kot Addu. The proposed project involves
the conversion of two 100 NW and two 125 MW combustion
turbines under construction at Kot Addu into
combined cycle units with the addition of four heat
recovery boilers and two steam turbo-generators of
about 100 MU each as well as the associated
transmission system for connection to WAPDA's
national grid. The station is expected to operate
on high speed diesel oil; however, provision is
being made for the use of alternate fuel (gas,
furnace oil, crude oil) if and when this is
available. The fuel will be supplied through an
existing pipeline from Karachi to Gujrat, which
would be extended to Kot Addu with a 30 km spur
pipeline by the Pakistan State Oil Company, the fuel
supply company. There are no unusual risks foreseen
for the implementation and operation of the proposed
project. WAPDA is experienced in the design and
construction of generation and transmission
facilities but will receive assistance from
consultants in relation to the combined cycle units,
as these represent a new technology for both WAPDA
and Pakistan.
Thi docment hs a rstcedditbutkn and my be used by recdints only in t perfomannce
of tei ockicl duties.Its contents nmy not otherw  be dislsed wihout Wodd Bnk authoniubon



-ii-
Local        Foreitu        Total
-- ---   (USS million)
Estimated Cost: .
Preliminary and Civil Works                12.5            -             12.5
Power Station Equipment                    28.4          56.1            84.5
Transmission Equipment                      1.6           3.8             5.4
Erection                                    9.7           4.4            14.1
Consultancy                                  -            1.4             1.4
Engineering and Administration              4.8            _              4.8
Total Base Cost                          57.0          65.7           122.7
Physical Contingencies                      7.6           5.5            13.1
Price Contingencies                        20.8          18.8            39.6
Total Project Cost                       85.4          90.0           175.4
Interest During Construction                _            12.4            12.4
Total Financing Required                 85.4         102.4           187.8
z            m
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                         -           90.0            90.0
WAPDA                                      75.1            -             75.1
GOP                                        10.3          12.4            22.7
Total                                    85.4         102.4           187.8
mm             -
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD                                      FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90  FY91
--US$ million
Annual                                     3.2   16.0    35.0   25.8   10.0
Cimulative                                 3.2   19.2    54.2   80.0   90.0
Rate of Return:    15.2Z
Appraisal Report:   No. 6020-PAK (April 28, 1986)
Maw:               IBRD 19384
1J Including local duties and taxes of US$36.0 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS 0ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE 'WAIER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTEORITY WITE THE GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Water and Power Development Authority (RAPDA) with the guaran-
tee of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$90 mil-
lion to help finance a Kot Addu Combined Cycle Power Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONDOY Ij
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in
the previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural
sector, real GDP increased by 8.4%, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added
in agriculture grew by 9.9% and in manufacturing by 8.6%. Both fixed
investment and private investment rose by about 12%. Improved
availability of agricultural commodities helped to reduce the rate of
inflation to 7.5% from 8.4% in FY84. On the other hand, the budget
deteriorated markedly, national savings decreased, and the balance of
payments came under pressure. Government current revenues fell short of
the budgeted amount while expenditures substantially exceeded the budgeted
amounts. As a result, government borrowing from the domestic banking
system increased from 1.9% of GDP in FY84 to 3.9Z of GDP. Reflecting
largely the sharp drop in public savings, national savings fell from 12.8Z
to 11.2Z of GNP. Although the imediate growth prospects are good,
budgetary and balance of payments developments will need to be carefully
watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stoot at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports
declined by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered
the effects of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore,
remittances declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6% in
FY85. According to recent projections, net migration is expected to
decline and thus remittances will be lower over the medium term. As a
result of the higher current deficit and low net capital flows, the
reserve drawdown reached US$960 million. Gross official gold and foreign
.1 Parts I and II are substantially the same as those in the
President's Report for the "Sixth Agricultural Development Bank
Project" (Report No. P-4299-PAK dated May 1, 1986).



-2-
exchange reserves were US$1.2 billion at the end of FY85, which was equiv-
alent to 2 months of imports of goods and services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the
economy, initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All transactions
are now based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles.
Existing interest-based comuitments have been honored and transactions
with foreign governments and financial institutions are not affected. It
is too early to determine with any certainty the potential costs of
Islamization. Undoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially
involve some costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will
depend on how the system is applied. To date, the Government has
proceeded cautiously, and new financing modes have been applied flexibly
and developments monitored closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth ratio achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan was consis-
tent with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2Z), manufac-
turing (10.4Z), exports (11Z), and private investment (6.7Z), though below
Sixth Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and
very respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing
countries.  Growth during this period-coupled with increased remittances-
-benefited large segments of the population. Performance improved despite
a number of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30Z decline in
the external terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis
with its attendant expenditures for increased defense and refugee
assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved sig-
nificantly during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and
Covernment bank borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8Z and 4.3Z of GDP
respectively, fell to 6.4Z and 1.7Z by FY83. As the levels of Government
borrowing from banks dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained,
the growth of the money supply slowed down and inflationary pressures
lessened; inflation dropped from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period.
The improved fiscal performance was largely the result of expenditure
restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real expansion in
current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept pace with
population growth, and development expenditures declined relative to GDP.
Covernment revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP, and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong export
growth, the current account deficit fell from 5Z of GNP to 2% by the end
of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in



-3-
the coumodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufac-
turing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private
sector were widened, most agricultural processing units were
denationalized, and sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange
rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured
exports, while import liberalization increased the availability of raw
materials and capital goods. In energy, measures were taken to accelerate
the development of domestic resources, rationalize prices, and improve
policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent wel-
come steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural
and long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must
be introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and erficiency of public investment; and (b) the need
to encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If
Pakistan is to sustain high economic growth, it must make major
infrastructure investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen
its neglected social base. The last has fared badly as a result of
resource constraints, as is reflected in Pakistan's social indicators,
which lag seriously behind those of other developing countries at com-
parable levels of development. It will not be possible to increase public
investment and recurrent allocations without a major domestic resource
mobilization effort. Although Pakistan should give priority to reforming
indirect taxation through a broad-based sales tax, it should also rely
more on user charges, should curtail subsidies, and increase self-
financing by public enterprises. Given the continuing constrained outlook
for official assistance and the likelihood of lower remittance flows,
sustained improvements in both export expansion and efficient import
substitution will be necessary to support high growth with sustainable
external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be improved,
structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the key sec-
tors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and industry
have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of
efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of
increased acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by
those of progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural produc-
tivity and diversification can be increased, institutional support must be



-4-
strengthened, appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the
core investment program identified and implemented. More effective
institutional support should be sought through improvements in the quality
and quantity of services to farmers. In particular, strengthening the
seed program requires more efficient seed multiplication and
dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector plants, and a greater
role for the private sector. The delivery of agricultural credit also
needs to be improved to ensure that it actually reaches small farmers and
tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Furthermore, marketing costs
need to be reduced and research and extension services strengthened.
Agricultural pricing policies should create appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Hulticrop approaches to pricing
should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production approach currently
used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is
needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities.
Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the
supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by
rapid expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a
number of issues the Government must address if this performance is to be
sustained. High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality
domestic production both by raising input prices and by reducing the
demand for new technology to raise productivity and improve product
quality. If Pakistan is to increase and diversify its manufactured export
base and encourage efficient import substitution, industrial incentives
must be rationalized to reduce both the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. The objective here is to increase the efficiency of the
industrial sector by exposing protected producers to greater foreign
competition and to reduce the anti-export bias inherent in the present
incentives. In addition, the Government should reform the regulations
affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing in order to improve
competition among domestic firms. It should limit sanctioning to a few
cases of strategic importance, leaving most investment decisions to the
private sector, which is better able to assess investment opportunities.
Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of key private and public
manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient incentives to mini-
mize costs or allocate capital efficiently, should be replaced by market-
oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand conditions and
provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operational efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be and are being addressed in the energy
sector pertain to three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b)
pricing; (c) institutional strengthening. In the power subsector, the
Government has formulated a least-cost development plan for the period



-5-
1986-2005 and has outlined a core investment program of Rs 30 billion
consisting of high priority projects to be implemented during FY86 to
FY88. Given the likelihood of domestic resource constraints and persist-
ent power shortages, the Government is also undertaking a number of
measures including tariff increases to ensure that a large portion of this
investment program would be financed from WAPDA's self-generated
resources. The gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries has been
adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private sector
exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept artificially low to
encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil, relative prices became
distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982, the Government
policy has been to progressively increase consumer prices of gas in order
to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget increased
the average gas price by over 50Z. Assisted by domestic price increases
and lower international prices for fuel oil, the Government's target has
been realized. The Government should continue the policy of gradually
adjusting gas prices with a view to reaching full parity as early as
possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below the long-run
marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure
the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but
also to mobilize the substantial additional funds required by the power
investment program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing
the autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their
efficiency and should continue to strengthen energy planning and policy
coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic
strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an
expanded role for the private sector, increased public development
expenditures, and increased allocations for energy, agriculture,
irrigation, and the social sectors. Although the size and composition of
the Plan are appropriate, development expenditures during the first two
years of the Plan have been 8.5Z lower than the amounts projected because
of insufficient domestic resources. Although this would not appear overly
large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed con-
tradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy, health, and agriculture have
received considerably lower allocations than called for in the Plan.
Furthermore, without a predefined core investment program, there is a
tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large number of projects
within a sector; thus too many projects have been initiated, and projects
that should receive priority are underfunded. To address this issue, the
Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority Investment Program
(FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adoption of a rolling
medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and priorities are
being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable. The program
will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be given
priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.



-6-
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have
improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing
and commercial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public
debt (excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of
which US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan
consortium, US$1.2 billion to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateral
agencies, and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. At the
same time, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external public indebted-
ness was 16.2Z, and in external debt service it was 8.0%. According to
Bank projections, if recent policy improvements are sustained and struc-
tural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service will remain about 20%
during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher levels of
commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of March 31, 1986, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that were
disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$4.0
billion, and IFC's investments totalled $239.9 million. (Annex II con-
tains a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the econcmy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 25-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of
total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and
irrigation; 28Z for industry, including import program credits; 18% for
transport, telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for
energy, including power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5Z for social
programs in education, population, and urban development; and 52 for
structural adjustment lending and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is primarily to support
the Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy
reforms in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape
the structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from
adjustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the
strategy also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the
social sectors (education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in
Pakistan's development efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full
range of traditional instruments of Bank support must be flexibly
deployed--from sector work and active policy dialogue, to policy- and
project-based lending, technical assistance and aid coordination. The
Bank Group's lending program comprises two components, the larger of which
supports specific high-priority investments in productive sectors and



-7-
physical and social infrastructure. The smaller but nonetheless strategic
component focuses on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture,
industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-quality economic and
sector work. The program includes a series of technical assistance
credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for policy
reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum,
the Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of
Consortium members of the Government's structural adjustment program and
aid requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and
help attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional
sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The
Bank and the Government have agreed that the main objective of the
agricultural strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be
to increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the
efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.
Among the issues being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation
projects and projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input
and output prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance,
cost recovery, and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the
sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs,
research, and extension and have included institution-building components.
Overall, progress in agriculture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has
been designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to
promoting export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation,
efficiency of public enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in
the credit delivery system. Lines of credit extended to development
finance institutions and other financial intermediaries have been mainly
for the private sector. Direct lending for industry has also included
assistance to three large fertilizer plante aad a refinery engineering
loan. IFC's investments in 18 Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans
(US$228.6 million) and equity participation (US$11.3 million). Although
individual operations have generally achie;'ed their objectives, the agenda
for overall industrial reform remains formidab-le.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sectcr Loan in 1985, our lending program
in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand
the domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase



-8-
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation,
and other methods of managing demand. No less central have been the
efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank
has helped both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) to finance their power
generation and transmission programs. The construction of the Mangla and
Tarbela dams under the Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank
played a leadership role, has also assisted in achieving the objectives of
the sector strategy. In oil and gas, the Bank has financed a sound
exploration and development program and has assisted in developing the
extensive gas transmission system. Smaller efforts, involving mainly
engineering studies and technical assistance, have been undertaken to
support coal exploration, energy audits, and oil refining. Despite much
progress, however, the Bank will need to continue participating in
institution building and help the Government mobilize adequate funds for
energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater private
sector participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of exist-
ing assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highway agencies. However, inadequate transFort infrastructure
is now considered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large
measure because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance
between new investments and the efficient operation and maintenance of
existing investments needs greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth
rate of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally
formidable development agenda in the social sector. The Bank has sup-
ported the Government's programs in education through five credits
designed to upgrade primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and
agricultural education as well as middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The focus has been and will
continue to be on the lower end of the education spectrum (primary,
technical, and nonformal education). A first population project designed
to expand the demand for population control services was approved in FY83.
Furthermore, the Bank has financed four projects in the urban and water
supply sector. Besides providing uLban services, these operations are
designed to improve local resource mobilization and cost recovery; plan-
ning and efficiency of resource utilization; and urban management, espe-
cially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development
planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and



-9-
industrial sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of
FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL
supports the Government reform program for the energy sector and assists
in the implementation of a core investment program for the sector.
Continuing support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned
under other sector loans in the next few years.
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects
have experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures
for project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procuremeDt of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to
budgetary constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and
conservation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial financing for the private sector, and for
industrial subsector restructuring, balancing, and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, and agricultural inputs and services; highway con-
struction and maintenance; primary and informal education; urban develop-
ment and water supply. Sector loans that would support further structural
adjustment in industry, agriculture and transportation are being discussed
with the Government. Where successful, such loans would provide a policy
umbrella for projects in those sectors. To help the Government finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects having low foreign exchange
component, the Bank Group is financing some local expenditures on a case-
by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on develop-
ment strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and
the coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment
in the three key sectors, and the development of the physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUBSECTOR
ENERGY SECTOR
Strategy for the Development of the Energy Sector
27.     Pakistan's commercially exploitable domestic energy resources
consist, in order of importance, of hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal.
In addition, the country has a large base of renewable energy in the form
of agriculture and animal wastes, and solar energy. The hydropower



*                    ~~~~~~-10-
potential is estimated at about 30,000 MM, of which only 2,897 MS has been
developed and another 1,928 MS is under construction or at an advanced
stage of preparation. In addition, 3,600 MW will be added if the proposed
site at Kalabagh is fully developed. Natural gas is Pakistan's main
commercially exploitable hydrocarbon resource with known proven and prob-
able reserves estimated at about 340 million tons of oil equivalent (toe).
Proven and probable reserves of oil are estimated at about 58 million
tons. Consequently, the prospects are good for increasing the supply of
domestic hydrocarbons; however, this would only be achieved by increasing
the private sector's participation in exploration to reduce the risk borne
by the Government of Pakistan (GOP). Coal and lignite reserves are
estimated at about 900 million tons of which only 175 million tons are
proven. GOP has outlined a systematic program for the formulation of a
comprehensive coal exploration strategy to determine the reserves where
further assessment is justified. The first phase of the program would be
carried out in 1987 and 1988. GOP is also assessing, under the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) financing, the poten-
tial for stimulating increased private sector involvement in coal produc-
tion using the reserves at Lakhra as a model. If the results at Lakhra
are favorable, the same model could be applied to other promising
reserves. By and large, the development of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources has progressed at a substantially slower pace than is warranted
mainly because of financial constraints. As a result, the country's
dependence on imported energy increased which contributed to the rapid
growth of imports and external payments deficits.
28.     In recognition of the possible adverse impact on the economy of
sustained growth in the demand for energy and increased dependence on
imported energy, the Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY79-FY83) emphasized the
accelerated development of domestic energy resources and rationalization
of consumption. However, the plan targets were not achieved. In address-
ing the set-backs experienced in achieving the energy targets of the Fifth
Plan, GOP included the energy sector among the high priority sectors 1/
in the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-FY88) by increasing its share of the
resources and by taking several important policy initiatives. Despite
these actions, however, it became evident during the first two years of
the Plan that supply targets were not lik2ly to be fully achieved. The
shortfall in achieving the targets of the Fifth Plan and the likely short-
fall with regard to those of the Sixth Plan were mainly due to: (a) the
shortage of financial resources, precipitated mainly by the underpricing
of natural gas and electricity which in turn stimulated consumption and
resulted in severe and frequent supply interruptions, and (b) the absence
of a system for setting priorities in investment and for mobilizing
resources for their implementation. As a result, the development of
primary and secondary energy progressed in a piecemeal fashion, dictated
1/ The others are agriculture and industry.



-11-
priirily by the availability of financial resources, causing persistent
gaps between actual and planned investments.
29.     The lack of progress under previous Plans, the setbacks
ezperienced in the implementation of the investment program for the energy
sector during the first two years of the Sizth Plan, and the likelihood
that resource constraints would continue into the imediate future
prompted GOP to formulate a comprehensive development strategy to address
the major sectoral issues. The strategy was formulated in 1985 in col-
laboration with the Bank, under the Energy Sector Loan (ESL)
(Loan 2552-PAK). It involves a two-pronged approach. The first focuses
on minimizing the shortfalls in energy during the remaining three years
(7Y86-FY88) of the current Plan period and on ensuring that investments
needed for the Seventh Five-Year Plan are identified; the second calls for
studies to outline the framework for the integrated development of the
sector during the Seventh and Eighth Plan periods. The actions and
studies under the energy development strategy are categorized under three
headings: (i) investment and development; (ii) pricing and demand
management; and (iii) institutional development. Under the ESL, the
issues relating to these have been identified, a plan of action to address
them has been outlined, and target dates for specific actions have been
set.
30.     Investment and Development. The first element of the strategy
formulated for the sector was to revise the supply targets of the Sixth
Plan and outline a Core Investment Program that covers the remaining three
years (FY86-FY88) of the Plan. The core program for power covers the
ongoing projects needed to achieve the revised supply targets and projects
to be initiated during the remainder of the Sixth Plan to ensure smooth
transition to the Seventh Plan. Moreover, the core investment program for
power calls for predetermined yearly financial allocations distributed
among generation, transmission and distribution to balance the development
of the subsector. In the oil and gas subsector, the core program involves
for the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) an annual program of
exploration, development of specific low risk gas and oil prone areas, and
the allocation of a yearly budget by GOP to implement the program. In
addition, a program parallel to that of OGDC was outlined involving the
development of fields suitable for attracting risk capital through joint
ventures. A new gas producer price formula was introduced under ESL to
stimulate the interest of the international oil firms in undertaking
exploration drilling in Pakistan.
31.     The financial requirements of the care investment program amount
to about Rs 50 billion (US$3.2 billion) of which Rs 36.5 billion (US$2.3
billion) would be absorbed by the power subsector; Rs 12.8 biLlion (US$0.8
billion) by the petroleum subsector; Rs 0.4 billion (US$24 million) by the
coal subsector; and Rs 0.25 billion (US$17 million) for energy planning
and conservation activities. To finance the core investment program, the
Government would contribute Rs 8.7 billion (US$0.6 billion) from the



-12-
Annual Development Plan and the contribution of the entities from their
internally-generated funds would amount to Rs 14.7 billion (US$0.9
billion). The remaining Rs 26.4 billion (US$1.7 billion) would be in the
form of loans, grants and suppliers' credits, the bulk of which have been
secured.
32.     Resource Mobilization and Demand Management.  The petroleum
products subsector continues to be a net contributor to the resources of
GOP. In December 1985, the weighted average domestic price of petroleum
products was at 148% of the border price, US$287/toe compared to
US$194/toe. Under the prevailing price structure, prices of all petroleum
products are above their respective border prices, with the exception of
fuel oil which is below its border price by about US$39/toe. The price of
natural gas, by contrast, is low relative to the prices of competing
petroleum products, reflecting GOP's decision to buffer the economy from
the adverse impact of the higher cost of imported energy. This stimulated
demand and by 1981 supply constraints started to emerge. Accordingly,
under SAL I (Loan 2166-PAK/Credit 1255-PAK) GOP decided to increase the
price of gas to reach two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by FY88.
The same policy was reiterated under the ESL. In implementing the gas
pricing policy, the weighted average domestic price of gas was increased
since 1981 at an average annual rate of 30X. As a result, in December
1985, the weighted average price of gas was about 65Z of the border price
of fuel oil, i.e., US$96/toe compared to US$147/toe. In addition, a new
producer price for natural gas was introduced linking the price of new gas
to the border price of fuel oil less a discount to be determined on a
field-by-field basis. This formula would provide added incentives for the
international petroleum firms to increase their exploration activities in
high-risk gas prone areas.
33.     As regards electricity, the average revenue, including fuel
surcharge, in FY85 was 64 paisa/kWh for WAPDA, representing about 60Z of
the average long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of 110 paisa/KWh.  Despite the
divergence between the average revenue and LRMC, WAPDA has been able to
finance more than 40% of its investment program from internally generated
revenues because actual investments in the past have amounted to only
about 50% of the planned investment. In order to ensure that actual and
planned investments do not diverge, GOP and WAPDA agreed under the ESL to
undertake all necessary measures including tariff increases and annual
allocations from the budget to ensure that the core investment program is
financed. Electricity tariffs which had changed very little since
November 1981 were increased from July 1, 1985 by 10% across the board for
all consumers. Based on the Bank's forecast, the implementation of
WAPDA's investment program for the period FY87-FY94 would require annual
real increases in tariffs of about BZ for the next eight years. The
forecasts further show that tariffs will need to be increased by about 11%
on July 1, 1986 in order for WAPDA to cover 40% of its core investment
program for FY87 from internal sources.



-13-
34.     Regarding the collection, storage and retrieval of data on the
power system, WAPDA has recruited Argonne Laboratories in the USA, under
financing from United Nations Development Program (UNDP), to design a new
system. Concurrently, WAPDA assisted by consultants under financing from
USAID has initiated a load research and management study to comp.le
detailed information on the pattern (extent, duration, load factors, etc.)
of electricity consumption by the various consumer categories. The data
base study is expected to be completed by December 1986, and the load
management study by September 1987. These would provide the inputs needed
for restructuring electricity tariffs in Pakistan. In the interim WAPDA
is assessing the impact on consumers of introducing a fuel surcharge in
the tariff for the low voltage consumers, which it plans to introduce in
FY87.
35.     Institutional Responsibilities and Development.  Three ministries
share the responsibility for supervising the operational entities and
agencies involved in the energy sector. These are the Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry of Water and Power
(MWP), and the Ministry of Production (MINPRO). In addition, the Energy
Division of the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD) has respon-
sibility for energy planning. Operational responsibilities in the sector
are vested in a large number of entities and agencies in both the public
and the private sectors. All these entities and agencies come under the
jurisdiction of MPNR, except three state organizations engaged in oil
refining or petrochemicals, the two electricity supply organizations, and
the Appropriate Technology Development Corporation. Nuclear energy comes
under the office of the Prime Minister. Coordination between the minis-
tries on energy matters is secured through a number of committees, namely,
the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), the Energy Review Working
Group (ERWG), the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC), the Executive
Comuittee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC), and the Central
Development Working Party (CDWP). NEPC is responsible for the formulation
of GOP's overall energy policy. ERWG performs the functions of inter-
ministerial coordination as well as monitors the status of on-going
projects in the public sector and endeavors to remove the operational
bottlenecks. The review of the financial plans of the sector and the
approval of energy pricing proposals are under the jurisdiction of ECC.
ECNEC and CDWP review and approve major proposals and projects in the
energy sector, as in other sectors.
36.     The main issue concerning the organization of the energy sector is
the multiplicity of ministries and committees responsible for planning,
coordinating and monitoring the performance of the public and private
enterprises involved in the production, transport and delivery of energy
products. This division of responsibility spreads the scarce human
resources, particularly at the technical level, among a large number of
public agencies resulting in reduced effectiveness of each agency.
Recently, GOP under ESL created in MPD an energy planning cell (ENERPLAN)
with USAID financing, and an energy conservation unit (ENERCON) with joint



-14-
USAID and Bank financing. ENERPLAN is mandated to collect, compile and
analyze on an on-going basis all relevant data on the energy sector and
integrate them with the country's annual, five-year and long-term develop-
ment plans to enable GOP to identify priorities and evaluate resource
requirements to support effective policy formulation and investment
Dlanning. ENERPLAN would be staffed by Pakistani personnel who will be
assisted during the first four years by consultants financed by USAID.
ENERCON would serve as the focal point for all conservation activities and
its main responsibilities will be to plan energy conservation actions,
formulate policy guidelines, develop a data base, support training
activities and private research, undertake development and demonstration
as well as public information activities, and monitor the implementation
of conservation programs of various public and private entities. It would
formulate a comprehensive national energy conservation program by the end
of 1986. The long-term consultants for the ENERCON project are expected
to start their work in mid-1986. Various options are being examined in
order to improve the efficiency of and mobilize additional resources for
the subsector.
POWER SUBSECTOR
Organization of WAPDA and the Power Subsector
37.     WAPDA and KESC are the two organizations primarily responsible
for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in
Pakistan. WAPDA, the borrower of the proposed loan, is a well run and
competent semi-autonomous agency established in 1958 to coordinate the
development of Pakistan's water and power resources. It is divided into
two largely independent 'wings', one for power and the other for water.
The Power Wing is responsible for the construction and operation of power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities throughout the
country, except for a small area, including Karachi and its surroundings,
which is served by KESC, a private utility.
38.     Under the ESL, GOP has agreed to review alternative ways of reor-
ganizing the power subsector to make it more efficient and more responsive
to the changing conditions. GOP is examining the legal implications of
assigning to W/APDA the responsibility for generation and high voltage
transmission of electricity for the entire country. This is expected to
result in improved planning and integration of the WAPDA and KESC systems.
In view of the overstaffing of the Distribution Department and the high
employee-consumer ratio, WAPDA's distribution function is being reor-
ganized and the policies, procedures and methods are being modernized.
The creation of a new decentralized Power Distribution Authority for the
distribution of electricity through autonomoas and semi-autonomous com-
panies and entities is being assessed by consultants appointed by WAPDA
under USAID financing. In August 1985, GOP appointed a National
Deregulation Commission which is headed by the Governor of the State Bank
of Pakistan. One of the objectives of this commission is to outline a



-15-
strategy for increasing private sector involvement in power distribution.
Moreover, the Economic Co-ordinating Committee of the Cabinet approved in
September 1985 a charter of terms and conditions under which the private
sector would be invited to participate in power generation in the context
of the agreed medium and long-term plans. A detailed framework for the
remuneration of potential private firms involved in the supply of power in
Pakistan is currently being formulated.
Existing Facilities and Load Management Measures
39.     In June 1985, WAPDA's total installed generating capacity was
4,339 MW, of which 2,897 MW (67%) was hydro and 1,442 MW (33%) was
thermal. The maximum potential output of the existing hydro stations
amounts to about 3,100 MW when all the reservoirs are full. This poten-
tial drops to slightly less than 1,000 MW during the dry season; the
shortfall is made up from thermal generation. According to WAPDA, the
shortfall between demand and the generation capabiLity of its system,
estimated at about 1,000 MW in January 1985 and about 1,200 MW in June
1985, is expected to continue well into the 1990s.
Power Planning
40.     GOP and WAPDA have realized that the investments in the power
sector need to be increased and rationalized with a view to meeting the
future demand at least cost. To achieve this objective, assistance has
been provided by the Bank in the last two years to develop WAPDA's in-
house capability for power system planning. In view of the importance of
setting priorities and earmarking resources to meet the forecast demand
for electricity at least cost to the economy, WAPDA with Bank financing
has initiated a study to formulate a national least-cost plan for the
power subsector; it plans to complete the study and review its results
with the Bank by December 31, 1986. This study incorporating recent
developments in the sub-sector is being undertaken by Argonne National
Laboratories, which under financing from UNDP with the Bank as the execut-
ing agency, has already assisted WAPDA in formulating an interim least-
cost program for the development of generation facilities. Argonne, under
the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency, has also trained
WAPDA's staff in the use of the Wien Automatic System Planning (WASP III)
computer model and in early 1985 successfully installed that model on
WAPDA's computer. This would enable WAPDA's sta'f to revise the soon-to-
be-completed national least-cost plan, as and when needed. incorporating
updated information on the operation of the subsector including hydrology,
water management and pattern of electricity consumption.



-16-
WAPDA's Development Program
41.     WAPDA plans to more than double its installed generation capacity
from 4,339 KW to over 9,416 MW by 1993. This will involve the commission-
ingNof about 3,000 MW of generating capacity now under construction and
the development of three major power complexes: (i) a hydropower complex
in the north including the development of three sites on the Indus River
-- at Kalabagh, and later at Basha and Dasu; (ii) a complex based on
imported coal in the south near Karachi; and (iii) between these, thermal
capacities at Jamshoro based on fuel oil, and at Lakhra based on domestic
coal. This expansion will be supported through the fuller exploitation of
Pakistan's energy resources.
42.     The concentration of major hydro-electric generation facilities in
the north and thermal facilities and load demand in the center and south
requires the long distance bulk transmission of electricity. To ensure
continued efficient power transmission, WAPDA plans to construct over
2,000 km of additionaL extra-high voltage (500 kV) lines in this period.
In addition, the 220 kV network and sub-transmission systems are being
expanded (under the Fourth WAPDA Project) to ensure coordinated and
integrated development with the expanded extra-high voltage and distribu-
tion systems. These actions will also serve to reduce system loqses which
in FY85 was estimated at about 27X of gross generation. WAPDA has
initiated a study with the assistance of consultants financed by USAID to
prepare detailed work and investment programs to achieve a reasonable and
attainable target of loss reduction. The study is expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1986. In the area of distribution and rural elec-
trification, consultants financed by USAID are preparing a comprehensive
Master Plan for a Power Distribution System, which is focusing on the
organization of distribution, analysis of energy loss, criteria for
selecting feeders for rehabilitation, efficient distribution expansion and
practices, load management, voltage regulation and service reliability;
this study to be completed in March 1986 (along with the study of system
losses) would serve as a basis for identifying the transmission and dis-
tribution components of the core investment program and for selecting
projects suitable for external financing.
The Bank Group Strategy and Involvement
43.     The Bank concurs with the development strategy outlined by GOP and
specified under the ESL, which provides the policy umbrella for Bank
activities in the sector. Consequently, the Bank continues to support the
policies initiated under ESL, and the allocation of resources for specific
projects included in the core investment program. In the area of primary
energy production, the Bank wouLd support the implementation of a com-
prehensive plan for the exploration and development of oil and gas and
coal. In addition, the Bank would support an investment program aimed at
the substitution of lower value for higher value products, particularly
imported coal for gas in power generation and the release of gas for use



-1 7-
by industry and households as a substitute for imported petroleum
products. As for the hydroelectric potential, emphasib would be or. the
formulation of a least cost plan, and on the extensiun of techpicaL and
financial support for the development of high priority schemes. Efforts
would also be directed toward retrofitting and restructuring the refinery
subsector, as well as the rationalization of the infrastructure for the
transport of liquid hydrocarbons and gas. The Bank would also support the
formulation of plans for bringing domestic prices of energy products at
least to parity with their respective cost to the economy as a means of
rationalizing consumption and mobilizing resources for GOP, as well as
plans for investing in rehabilitation and retrofitting in major energy
consuming industries, such as oil refineries, fertilizers, cement, etc.
In the power subsector, the Bank has directed its efforts to strengthening
WAPDA's management and technical capabilities. WAPDA has improved its
overall financial operations by developing modern accounting and commer-
cial systems. The Bank would continue supporting the institution building
measures already undertaken by WAPDA, including the strengthening of its
technical capability in formulating a least cost plan for the development
of the power subsector.
44.     The Bank Group involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in
1955 with a Loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station.
Since then, it has assisted in financing projects in all energy
subsectors. In the power subsector, the Bank has participated in the
Indus Basin Development Projects, which include the hydrogeneration
developments at Mangla and Tarbela. A series of four credits/loans were
made to KESC between 1955 and 1967 for the development of its generation
capacity. Since 1970, the Bank has been more directly involved in GOP's
program for strengthening the power transmission and distribution
networks, for which five credits/loans were made to WAPDA. The first
(Credit 213-PAK) of US$23 million, made in 1970, covered the cost of
upgrading the capacity of the transmission network. A second operation, a
Third Window loan (Loan 1208T-PAK) of US$50 million, subsequently reduced
by US$15 million due to savings achieved under international competitive
bidding, was made in 1975 to finance the development of part of the 500-kV
transmission system to connect the hydro resources of the north with the
thermal generation in the center and south to provide the most economic
means of supplying power throughout the country. A third operation
(Loan 968-PAK) in the amount of US$45 million was made to cover four years
of WAPDA's program for the development of the secondary transmission
system (FY79-FY83), involving the erection of about 4,345 km of single and
double circuit lines and the construction, expansion and conversion of 216
substations. Implementation of this Project which has progressed satis-
factorily has now been completed.
45.     The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) dated April 6, 1981
for the first project (Credit 213-PAK) noted that, although the project
was successfully completed, there was a delay of about five years in
project completion because of WAPDA's inexperience in bid evaluation, in



-18-
procurement and in contract management; further, in an unsettled atmos-
phere fraught with political and social proolems WAPDA was understandably
slow to accept new management concepts. However, the PPAR dated December
26, 1985 for the second project (Loan 1208-PAK) noted that the project was
satisfactorily implemented at a substantially (37%) lower cost than
originally estimated and with a delay of onLy about 14 months in project
completion. While this represents significant improvements in WAPDA's
financial, operational, project and overali management capability, some
fundamental problems remain which are being addressed under the Fourth and
Fifth Power Projects and the Energy Sector Loan.
46.     In FY85, four loans to the sector amounting to a total of US$433
million were approved by the Bank. The Fourth WAPDA Power Project
(Loan 2499-PAK) for an amount of US$100 million covers the construction of
a total of about 3,890 km of transmission lines, and 227 substations
including expansion of 86 substations of the subtransmission system over
the period FY86-FY90.  The Fifth WAPDA Power Project (Loan 2556-PAK) for
an amount of US$100 million would assist WAPDA in the installation of
about 1,100 km of 500-kV transmission line between Lahore and Jamshoro
and new 500-kV substations at Lahore and Sahiwal, and the extension and
reinforcement of existing 500-kV substations at Multan, Guddu, Dadu and
Jamshoro. The Bank agreed to support GOP in restructuring the sector with
the Energy Sector Loan (Loan 2552-PAK) for an amount of US$178 million.
In the area of petroleum exploration and development, the Bank approved a
Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project (Loan 2553-PAK) for an amount of
US$55 million with a view to financing the Government's and OGDC's share
of foreign exchange commitments under existing joint ventures with private
sector operators in Badin and North Potwar blocks and new joint ventures
to be firmed up during the next three years.
47.     Within the above framework, Bank assistance in the power subsector
focuses mainly on: the reorganization of the subsector to optimize the
use of scarce financial and technical resources; the strengthening of
WAPDA's managerial and technical capabilities and the improvement of
overall financial operations; the formulation of a least-cost power
development plan for the medium and long term and the implementation of
high-priority activities; the coordination of the policies and programs
for primary energy development with those for power generation; the
increased utilization of available local energy resources or lower cost
imported fuel for power generation; and financial and related support for
projects aimed at improving the use of existing generation facilities,
reducing energy losses, implementing load management programs, etc., in
order to reduce the energy shortfall. The proposed project, which is part
of the core investment program for the power subsector, is consistent with
the policy framework established under the ESL and with the objectives
stated above.



-19-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.     The proposed project was prepared by WAPDA.  The project was
appraised in September/October, 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 24 to March 26, 1986; the delegation from
Pakistan was led by Mr. Mohammad Akram Xhan, Additional Secretary,
Ministry of Water and Power. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled
"Pakistan: Kot Addu Combined Cycle Power Project" (Report No. 6020-PAK),
dated April 28, 1986 is being circulated to the Executive Directors. A
supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III. Additional
conditions of loan effectiveness would include: (i) approval by the
Executive Comittee of the Pakistan National Economic Council (ECNEC) of
the PC-1 document 1/ for the project; (ii) the announcement of a tariff
increase effective July 1, 1986 which would enable WAPDA to generate
internally at least 402 of its FY87 capital investment requirements; (iii)
substantial reduction in Government arrears owed to VAPDA; and (iv) the
confirmation by GOP that a contract for the construction of the Nahmood
Kot to Kot Addu fuel pipeline has been signed.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
49.     Shortage of power remains a binding constraint on Pakistan's
development, and is the short- and medium-term focus of Bank activities in
the energy sector. Under the Energy Sector Loan (Loan 2552-PAR) which
established a framework for eliminating the continuing energy shortfall at
least cost to the ecGnomy and assisted the Government of Pakistan in
formulating a strategy for the development of energy sector as a whole,
the Bank has encouraged the adoption of policies and the implementation of
projects to increase the efficiency of energy generation. The continua-
tion of this support provides the rationale for continued Bank
involvement.
Project Objectives
50.     The proposed project would improve the efficiency of power gener-
ation at the Kot Addu power station by providing 50X more power per unit
of fuel consumed and would assist in meeting future energy demand at least
cost to the economy, consistent with the general objectives set by the
GOP for the energy sector. More specifically, it would add, by the end of
1990, about 200 MW to the Kot Addu station's and to WAPDA's generating
capacity, thus contributing to a reduction of the energy shortage expected
to continue into the mid-19909. Finally, it would support the introduc-
tion of combined cycle technology for power generation in Pakistan.
1/  A PC-l (Planning Comission Proforma #1) is an internal Government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan
project approval procedtures.



-20-
Project Description
51.     The proposed project would include:
(a) the installation of four heat recovery boilers to be connected
to two 100 NW and two 125 MW combustion turbines currently
under construction at Kot Addu and two steam turbo-generators
of about 100 MW each, together with the associated high-
voltage transformers, cooling water supply and auxiliary
facilities;
(b) the construction of about 104 km of 220-kV transmission lines
from Kot Addu to Multan and the addition of connec'ing bays at
these grid substations; and
(c) consulting services for the preparation of specifications of
equipment, bidding documents, evaluation of bids, finalization
of designs, and supervision of erection and testing of the
combined cycle units.
52.     The power generation station at Kot Addu would operate on high
speed diesel oil which will be supplied through a 30 km spur pipeline from
the terminal station (at Mahmood Kot near Multan) of the Karachi-Mahmood
Kot pipeline. The confirmation by GOP that a contract for the construc-
tion of the pipeline has been signed would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan. No environmental problems are expected from the
operation of the power station at full capacity or from the transportation
of fuel for its operation.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
53.     The project would be executed by WAPDA, which has acquired exten-
sive experience in the installation and operation of thermal power sta-
tions using steam units and combustion turbines, and associated high
voltage transmission systems. However, since the combined cycle technol-
ogy is new to Pakistan - the first such station is under construction
at Guddu with cofinancing from ADB and USAID - WAPDA has retained con-
sultants with experience in this field to assist in the preparation of
equipment specifications and bidding documents, the evaluation of bids,
the finalization of the design proposed by the selected bidder, and the
supervision of the manufacture, erection, testing and commissioning of the
equipment.
54.     WAPDA has established a project unit solely responsible for the
implementation of the proposed project in order to ensure prompt decision-
making and effective coordination. Construction would be conducted and
supervised by resident engineers assisted by consultants. WAPDA, which
will be responsible for the training of staff to operate the facilities,



-21-
has already started a training program for the operation and maintenance
of combustion turbines and steam units at its training center at
Faisalabad. Training for the operation and maintenance of the combined
cycle equipment will be provided by the equipment contractor.  WAPDA will
submit quarterly reports covering the work of the consultants, and physi-
cal progress. costs, disbursements, and administrative aspects of the
proposed project. Annual financial and administrative reports will also
be submitted.
Project Cost
55.     Total project costs including price and physical contingencies
(US$53 million) and taxes and customs duties (US$36 million) are estimated
at about US$175 million. When interest during construction (US$12
million) is added, the total financing required is estimated at about
US$188 million of which about US$102 million (55%) would be in foreign
exchange. These estimates are based on December 1985 prices. Physical
contingencies, estimated at 7% for equipment and materials and 14X for
erection services, would amount to 10.7% of the base cost of the proposed
project. Escalation of foreign costs is projected at 3.25Z for FY86, 7Z
for FY87, 7.25% for FY88, 7.6% for FY89 and FY90, and 6Z for FY91, while
escalation of local costs is estimated at 10% for FY86, 8.5% for FY87, and
7.5% annually for FY88 through FY90, and 6% for FY91, amounting to a total
price escalation of 29.2Z of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
Project Financing
56.     The proposed loan of US$90 million would be made to WAPDA and
guaranteed by the GOP; it would finance 88% of the total foreign exchange
requirements of US$102.4 million or 59Z of total project costs net of
taxes and duties. GOP would provide US$12.4 million in foreign exchange
to cover interest during construction and US$10.3 million in the form of a
Rupee loan; the remaining US$75.1 million of the local cost requirement of
US$85.4 million would be financed from WAPDA's own internal resources.



-22-
Procurement
57.     The following are the procurement arrangements:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million) /a
Project Element                            Procurement Method lb
I. Power Station                        ICB       LCB      Other      Total
Preliminary and
Civil Works                                  18.1                 18.1
Main Electromechanical              133.4                          133.4
Equipment                         (81.5)                        (81.5)
Auxiliary Electromechanical           2.3       3.3                  5.6
Equipment                            (1.8)                          (1.8)
II. Transmission Lines and
Substations
Civil Works & Erection                          3.5                  3.5
Equipment                             6.9                            6.9
(4.7)                         (4.7)
III. Consulting Services and                                  2.0         2.0
Technical Assistance                                  (2.0)       (2.0)
IV. Engineering and Administration                           5.9         5.9
Total                             142.6      24.9      7.9      175.4
(88.0)              (2.0)     (90.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses indicate the amount to be financed by the Bank.
7i  ICB:    International Competitive Bidding
LCB:    Local Competitive Bidding
Other:  Direct negotiation or not subject to commercial procurement
(e.g., land acquisition, owner expenses.)
58.     All contracts financed under the proposed loan for the supply and
installation of equipment would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines; local



-23-
manufacturers competing for the supply ot goods under ICB would be allowed
a 15Z preference or the applicable duty, whichever is lower. As a result,
about 81Z of works, goods and services for the proposed project would be
procured through ICB. Bidding documents and reco m_ndations for the award
of individual contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$1,000,000 would
be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. Consultants for
project engineering, training and technical assistance would be selected
and employed in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
59.     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a five year
period. This schedule is faster than the standard disbursement profile
for thermal generation projects Bank-wide, i.e., five years versus eight;
no standard profile is available for thermal generation projects in
Pakistan. However, the proposed disbursement schedule is reasonable
given: (a) the shorter time required for the manufacture and installation
of equipment for conversion to combined cycle operation compared to larger
coal-fired stations which feature significantly in the standard profile;
and (b) the conversion to combined cycle involving the retrofitting of a
station where all infrastrrctural facilities are nearly complete. The
faster disbursement schedule also reflects world-wide experience in com-
bined cycle construction, WAPDA's project implementation capabilities
which have been significantly strengthened under previous Bank and other
externally supported projects, and the advanced stage of project
preparation.
60.     Disbursements would be made against 100X of the CIF cost of
directly imported goods, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufac-
tured goods, and 100Z of the foreign costs of consultants' services. The
Bank has agreed to provide retroactive financing of up to US$ 500,000 to
cover expenditures incurred for consultants' services after December 1,
1985 and prior to the signing of the loan.
WAPDA'S Financial Position
61.     The financial performance of WAPDA's Power Wing improved con-
siderably after 1979. During the FY80-84 period both the ratio of current
assets to current liabilities and the coverage of debt service from inter-
nally generated revenues were satisfactory. Provisional figures for FY85
indicate that performance was generally satisfactory and the overall
position remained sound. Furthermore, the actions required to meet the
financial performance covenants were being pursued. At the end of FY85,
WAPDA's capitalization showed a debt/equity ratio of 50:50 compared to a
ratio of 61:39 in FY79. During the five-year period FY81-85, WAPDA has
been able to finance an average of about 60Z of its annual capital invest-
ments from internal cash generation corresponding to an average rate of
return of 16% on histo.ically-valued net assets in operation or 8X on
proforma revalued assets. The high level of self-financing was achieved



-24-
primarily because actual investment amounted to only about 50Z of planned
investment. To address this shortcoming, a number of agreements were made
with GOP and WAPDA under the Fourth Power Project (Loan 2499-PAX) and the
Energy Sector Loan (Loan 2552-PAK). First, a FY86-88 core investment
program for WAPDA amounting to Rs 30 billion (US$2.0 billion) was agreed
with WAPDA/COP; a comparable CIP of Rs 39 billion has now been agreed for
FY87-89. Second, all necessary measures, including tariff increases and
annual allocations from the budget, would be taken to ensure that the
program is financed. Third, 40X of the agreed investment program would be
financed each year from IAPDA's internal cash generation.  Fourth, start-
ing in FY89, the basis for determining the internal cash generation
requirements would be changed from the current retrospective basis to a
prospective basis. The announcement of a tariff increase effective July
1, 1986 to enable WAPDA to generate internally at least 401 of its FY87
capital investment requirements would be a condition of effectiveness of
the loan.
62.     Between FY85 and FY93, gross fixed assets are projected to grow
from about Rs 35 billion to about Rs 150 billion, and equity from about
Rs 19 billion to over Rs 67 billion; retained earnings are expected to
account for 85% of the increase in equity. Over the same period, long-
term debt is forecast to increase five fold from about Rs 19 billion to
about Rs 99 billion resulting in a projected debt/equity ratio of 59:41 in
FY93, which is reasonable for an electric utility. The coverage of debt
service by internal cash generation and the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities would be satisfactory during this period.
Nevertheless, the debt servicing capacity of WAPDA would continue to be
monitored. Therefore, the debt limitation covenant, agreed under the
Fourth WAPDA Project, is retained for this project to ensure that WAPDA
would consult the Bank should it seek to incur new debt that would result
in internal cash generation (before debt service and payment to GOP)
falling below 1.5 times the debt service requirement.
Financial/Commercial Operations
63.     WAPDA continues to make satisfactory progress in streamlining and
strengthening its financial and commercial operations and in establishing
modern accounting and commercial systems; however, there is still room for
improving its performance. A critical constraint, especially in the
accounting department, has been the shortage of qualified staff to fill
key positions. In an effort to strengthen this department, new Accounting
Service Rules have been drafted, which in contrast to the existing rules
would permit the recruitment of qualified financial personnel from outside
the Authority to fill middle and higher level financial positions; these
new draft rules are being reviewed for presentation to the Authority for
approval. Further, the institution-building work being carried out by
WAPDA under Bank-financed projects is being complemented with substantial
support under USAID's Power Distribution Project which is providing tech-
nical assistance and training on a large scale and over a broad range.



-25-
Government Arrears
64.     Under the Fourth WAPDA Project (Ln. 2499-PAK), the GOP agreed to
settle all Government arrears owing to WAPDA on June 30, 1985 by not later
than December 31, 1985 and that all future electricity bills would be paid
by all government agencies and departments within three months of the
receipt of such bills. Despite concerted efforts, GOP has not been able
to comply with this covenant. GOP and WAPDA have informed the Bank that
the concerned departments are withholding payment of the entire bill
because of disputes in some portion of the bills. The Bank has also been
informed that since approximately 20% of the amount billed is under
dispute, GOP has directed all departments and agencies in arrears to pay
all uncontested arrears (approximately 80% of the outstandings) to WAPDA
by March 31, 1986. Furthermore, the Finance Ministry has authorized
deduction of appropriate amounts at the budgetary source, if the uncon-
tested arrears are not paid, in order to clear arrears within three months
of the receipt of bills by the beginning of FY87. It is therefore
expected that arrears owed to WAPDA by Government departments and agencies
will be substantially reduced. Such a reduction is a condition of
effectiveness.
Audit and Insurance
65.     WAPDA's internal audit system needs to be improved and
strengthened so that it can fulfill its role as a key and reliable manage-
ment tool. Consequently, as agreed under the Fourth WAPDA Project, con-
sultants financed by USAID have been engaged to develop a modern internal
audit system.
66.     The external audit function is performed by the Auditor General of
the Government of Pakistan; this arrangement will continue until the new
internal audit system is installed and the new accounting system is fully
operational so that an informed judgement may be made on the quality of
this audit. While the Bank has agreed to this arrangement, it monitors it
constantly and has reserved the right to request, should any problems
ar:.se, an independent audit satisfactory to it.
67.     With respect to insurance, WAPDA operates a self-insurance scheme
that is administered independently by a Board of Management with the
assistance of actuarial consultants. The Bank has reviewed these
insurance arrangements and found them acceptable.
Sales
68.     Electricity sales by WAPDA have been buoyant, and for the ten year
period (FY76-FY85) sales growth has averaged just over 1ll annually. This
increase was due to the rising demand for electricity by the industrial
sector where growth of real output was significant; strong household and



-26-
commercial demand fuelled by workers' remittances from the Gulf States;
and the decline in electricity tariffs in real terms. The annual growth
of sales over the next ten years (FY86-FY95) is projected somewhat lower
at about 92, reflecting supply constraints, projected increases in real
tariffs and successful conservation efforts. This forecast is used as the
basis for assessine projects benefits.
Benefits
69.     The economic rate of return on the proposed Project is 15.2% based
on the measurable costs and benefits. The measurable costs include: (a)
the investment in the combined cycle equipment and in the pipeline con-
necting the existing pipeline to the power station at Kot Addu; (b) opera-
tion and maintenance costs assumed at about 5Z of the capital cost of the
equipment; and (c) the average incremental cost for transmission and
distribution of about Rs 0.04/kHH.  The costs associated with the combus-
tion turbines currently being built at Kot Addu are considered sunk and,
consequently, are not included in calculation. The measurable benefits
include the revenues associated with the incremental sales attributable to
the extra generation that would be provided by the combined cycle
equipment. The return on the investment is high reflecting the fact that
the proposed project was designed to take advantage of investment deci-
sions already made by generating extra power using the same amount of fuel
as was otherwise planned.
Risks
70.     The proposed project presents no unusual risks since the installa-
tion of combined cycle units requires limited  ivil works and little
assembly on site. Normal risks associated with fires, explosions, etc.
would be covered by the contractors during construction and by WAPDA,
after commissioning, through it own insurance arrangements.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Date: May 5, 1986



-27-
Annex 1
T S LA . I  3A                                    Page  1  of  6
PAKtSrAN               - SOCXAL INDICATORS DATA SmelT
IPAKSTAN                             REFERENCE GUloPS (WgIGlIrED AVERAGES) /A
MOST                     CHoST ECENT ESTSKATE) lb
z1970L   RECENT            LOW INCOM0             IDDLE TNcoE
196OLb      1970  Ee57UTiMASb        ASIA * FACIFIC         ASIA 4 PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLINENT RATIOS
P1UZMAT    TOTAL                  30.0         40-0       44.0               92.6                     100.7
MALZ                   46.0         57.0       57.0              105.5                     104.4
FL3AL1                  13.0       22.0        31.0               79.3                      97.2
SEUNDARYs TOTAL                    11.0        13.0        14.0              31.3                      47.8
IAZ                    18.0        20.0        20.0               40.a                      50.6
FENALE                  3.0          5.0        8.0               21.9                      44.6
VoCATIOlIAL CZ Ot SECIDAKY)           1.0         1.5         1.7               3.2                      18.4
ruPrd-TuAR RATIO
PRIMA                             39.0         41.0        36.0              36.0                      30.4
sECOND                            24.0         20.0        18.0               17.4                     22.2
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           1.5         2.6         3.4 LK            0.9                      10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/TBOSAND PO           6.0         17.1        74.6              129.8                    172.9
TV    E               POP            ..           1.6        11.5              19.8                      58.5
KEUSAPER (DAILT GENERAL
INTEREST") CRaJLATIoI
PEI T1USAND POPUZATON               13.2         ..         19.4              25.7                      65.3
C UIN     ANIUAL ATENDANC/CAPITA      1.7         3.0 II      2.2 /c            6.0                       3.4
TOTAL LABO  FORCE (noUS)          14448.0     17364.0    25325.0
PmEALz (PERCEN)                    8.S          9.3        10.6               33.2                     33.6
AGRCULSURZ (PERcENT)              61.0         59.0        57.0              69.6                      52.2
DUSTRY (PECENT)                    18.0        19.0       20.0               15.8                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.5        28.7        28.2               41.9                     38.9
MALZ                               55.2        50.4        48.3               53.6                      50.5
FEKALE                             5.7          5.5         6.3              29.1                      Z6.8
SCOIfC DEPENDENCY RAIO                1.5         1.7         1.7                1.0                      1.1
*^"3X D XS_EE10
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCME
DcEGEVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF RWSENOLDS            20.3 Jk     17.8
WcHEST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS           45.3 Tk7    41.8         ..                 ..                       48.O
LOUWSr 202 OF HSEOLDS               6.4 Tk     8.0         ..                 ..                        6.4
LOWEST 4n OF HUSEOWLDS             17.5 7i    20.2         ..                 ..                       15.5
ESTIumATD ABSOLUE POVERTY INCME
LEVL CUSs PER CAPIA)
URBAN                              ..          68.0 /I    176.0 /c          133.9
URAL                               ..         47.07r    122.07oT            111.6                     151.9
ESTDIATED  EATIVE PovERTY INcoE
LEVEL (u5 PER CAPITA)
VURBA                              ..          34.0 /S    88.0 Ic             ..                      177.9
RURAL                              ..          22.0 7?i    5s.o 7T           61.7                     164.7
ESTMATD  POP. aBLOu ABsoLUTE
POVERTY DICOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                              ..          42.0 /S    32.0 /c            43.8                      23.5
IDEAL                              ..         43.0 7i    29.0 7T             51.7                      37.8
.NO AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICAL
N OT E S
-/  The group awerae  for *ech lndicator are population-VeIghted arSth_tlc mean.. Coverage of countries
inog the Indicator depends an availability of data and Isn not uniform.
lb  Unlees otberwlse noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Moot Recant Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1979; /d 1968; 1. 1977;  If If regltered. not all practesing in the country;  /1i 1980; /h 1973;
/I 1972r; 11 194.8
.JUNE, 1985



-28-
Annex 1
T     A b L F  A                                          Page  2 of 6
P43(157                - SOL mNdCAOmB DATA game
PAKISTAN                             UnC    Gom    (wEITED AVA0) 
lSlT                     (MST UNW      TLHAT) lb
ItL                 LWi b  LUtH         NICOLE rNCfl
IS. (UHI   197UUb suTrAb            abl6 YrAaFlC           ASIA * rACIFIL
AR.(T_AIID Sll. El)
TOTAL                              803.9      BU3.9        03B..
AGRICULTUAL                        227.5      243.3       253.0
GVP MR CUITA (3                         ..         ..        39D.0             27U.)                    Iull.I
nCT CNSUIMPTION MM CAPITA
CKILOOS-MS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      9e.0       39.0       179.0             253.1                     300.5
vOnUon  A  VITAL STAT  esIC
POPULATlON,KIlnYEAR (TDL'SAIDS)  435851.0    60449.0    89729.O
URBaN POPULAT0oS (: UF TOTAL)      22.1        24.9        29.1              22.3                      35.9
POPULATION PWECTIONS
POPULATIO  In TAR 2000 CHILL)                           133.1 
STATIONAN   POLATION (MILL)                             330.0
POPULATION ICKElUTU                                       1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sq. I.                       57.0        75.2       111.6             173A                      386.Y
PE  SO. IRL. ASRI. LAND         201.5       248.4       344.4             333.3                    1591.2
POPULATION ArE STRUCTURE CI)
0-14 U S                         43.6       '.2         43.7              36.3                      a.2
35-64 Tts                        3l.8        50.5        13.2              39.4                     37.7
65 AND AOE                        4.3         3.1         2.A               6.3                       3.S
POPULATION CR01I71 lATh CI)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.s         3.0               2.U                       1.3
URBAN                             & i         4.0         4.4               4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH PATE (PER TB0US)       48.6        46.6        42.0              27.5                      3U.1
CRUDE DEADI RATE (P   TIUS)         23.5       19.4        14.9              10.2                       V.4
CROSS IR0OUCTXON tATE                3.4        3.4         2.8               1.7                       1.9
rANELY PLANwS.
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROUS)          ..      1908.1      1244. It
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..         6.0 Id    14.3               49.4                     5.5
FM  AND mora(
INDEX OF FOD PRto. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-I1O)                      89.0       102.0       107.0             116.0                     124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (S OF REQUIdIHENTS)      77.0       95.0       IU4.0            16.3                      115.7
PROTEINS (CGRA6 PQ DAY)          53.0        58.0        61.0              60.1                     60.3
OF WNICK ANIMAL AND PULSE        23.0       22.0        20.0 I1           14.4                      14.1
C1t1D (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        2&.9        21.1        10.0               7.3                      7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT  IRTN (YEARS)      43.1        *6.0        50.2              bO.5                     bU.b
INFaNT MM. RATE (PER ThmOS)        161.3      143.0       119.0              b9.2                     44.9
ACCESS TO S9FE WATER (traP)
TOTAL                              ..        21.0        34.b              &a.2                     *b.u
URAN                               ..        77.0        72.0              77.2                      57.b
RMRAL                              ..         4.0        20.0              34.6                     37.1
ACCESS TO EXICRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF OPULATION)
TOTAL                                         3.0        13.1               7.8                     3X.1
URBAN                              ..        13.0         2.0              Z8.8                     52.9
RURAL                             ..          ..          2.0               3.5                     44.7
POPULATION PER PHTYSCIA          5400.0      4300.0 ft  3480.0             3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PEA NURSINC PERSON         38110.0    1ns0o.o 7T   5820.0             4690.7                   2464.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1790.0     1.60.0      1560.0 lc         1039.2                    1112.1
URSAN                           310.0       630.0       710.0 7-          299.1                    631.4
RURAL                         22350.0    12480.0    liibu.O 7;           6025.2                   2596.9
ADtISSIONS PC HOSPITAL RE0           ..         ..          ..               52.3                     41.1
AVERAGE SI1E OF NUSE1OLO
TOTAL                              5.4        5.3         b.1 Ic
URBaN                              5.b         .5         0.4 Ic.
RURAL                              3.'        5.2         b__ t.
AVEYAGE NO. OF PERSONSfR300K
TOTAL                              3.1        2.8 In
URA                               3.1         2.7 7W
RURAL                              3.1        2.  lb 
PERCENTACE OF DWELLINCS WITH ELECT.
TUTAL                              ..        17.9 Ih
URBA                              ..         54.4 Ih.
RURAL                             ..          *.97.



-29-                                                 ANNEX I
page  3  of 6
DunmONS OF SOCAL. INDICATORS
NUt Alhough d_ edatar drawn from soueaguierallyjadlpd the moat autbnti   nd sAlfble, it sould also be noted that they may nmt be mienamaonally
compuable bme of the lIck of tandaubed dleitos and conept usd by different countes mu collecung the data. The datm are. nonethkue usful to
decribe orderofmgOput  indicatetrends ad charac    mnin major differec bete  countnm.
The  re    roupsa(I)thesamomumygupofthebjoc country and (2)  coumry group with somewhat geaveragecomethan te coumtry
group of the    cowattY(eocpt for -High Incoe Oil Eapote  group whew "Middle Income NrthAfri and Middle EEst ischosen beaue ofstronr
oioe.d.atw llities) to the seeam roup data tbe averags ase population weigbhted arithmetic m-us for each indiator and shown only when majonty
ortbe comutric in a group ha dat for that indicaor. Sinm the coverage ofcmoies among the indicaton depends on the avrdtablity of data and is not unione.
cautin mut be exeied in  ting avea    one indicuor to another These avcraes a only useful i companng tie vlue oone indicator ala time among
the comtry and re   gro.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Crud Bik Rate (per tksazd-Number of live births in the year
Tol-Total surface area comprising land are and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Cruk Detk Rate (per tkamnd)-Number of deaths in the year
Apieamlwal-Estiinate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permnently for crops. pastureL market and kitchen prdens or to    CGrss R eproa    Rate-Averge number of daughters a wommn
lie rallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
(NP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market price. calculated by same conversion method as World       si  P&ulr-Acer$s. Asua  (rkamraniir-Annual num-
Reek Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPIlON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   farnily planmng program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.  FUam1y Plawalia-Users (pert m fserfkd aen)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal clec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATnON AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Ibra FlpxSar  Mid. Ye-r Y tew (ea.ss)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data.
gInx  of Food Prodat.n Per Capi (1969-l 0 lOO) -Index of per
u,rb_ Popadwbw (erc ef reatl)-Ratio of urban to total            capita annual production of aN food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. esuprcane instead of sugar)
-         #     _ PI'eton                                        which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
fopslatin in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulss. oil sceds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international mnigration in the base year 1980. thces parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Pr Caita ispy of Calorier (peent ofreqsirensearsj-Comput-
Statinary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantites used in
constnt and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs ror normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Caj'ka Supply of Proein (gro  per dafy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertiity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams or total proteon per
a ratio or the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertilty remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment klvd from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
pi.ku Desi-,y                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kan.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tas) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capitas otveu Supply Fom Am oS        ei and  Nbc-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricaduhral land-Computed as above for agncultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Populcia. Age Seruetre (percene)-Children (0-14 years). work-   Chid (ages 1-l DeatA Rare (per tkoasamd)-N umber of deaths of
ing age (l5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mnid-yer population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.              group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
P1palatiaa Growth Rae (prcem-totaL-Annual growth rates of       from hfe tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83     HEALTH
Aspalsi.ir Growt Rare (pereent)rj-whn-Annual growth rates       Le Expetancy at Birth (years-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-30-                                            ANN        I
page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Aapreacher /rtio - primry. and secondaru-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                     rolled in primary and seconday leveb divided by numbes of
Infaw Movet  Rae (per t*asaad1)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding vels.
before reaching one year of age per thouand live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1933 data.                                CONSUMPTlON
Acces a. SAO* Wde  (pureeO qf pepdaleuj-tEItaL  d1b11, md      Pasgr Can (pr shumd pepubdenj-Passenger cars com-
runal-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prim motor cars sating les than eight persons; excludes ambul-
accss to safe water supply (includes treated surface waten or  anca. henrses and military vehicles.
untrted but uncontaminated wter such as that from protected    Rilbo RecWvr (per themd pepularle)-Ail types of receiver
borehole sppngs and snitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tve populauons. In an urban area a public fountin or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countrie  and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent yean may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
resnable acces would imply that the houewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  tv gram   lper thouandpopulatio;V rexcluvs unor brondcase
in fetching the ramily s water needs.                         to genral public per thousand population; excludes unlixrusd TV
ine reching the f Ditily's water neds    ppreceivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access ro Excreta Disposa (pefrent of popxAstaxi)-4omal, urban,  in effec.
and rural--Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
exscreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspw Circulto (per 'hem  -Sdhpepuaile.-Shows the aver-
Excteta disposal may indude the collection and disposal. with or  age cirulatiton of "daily geneal interest newspaper." defined a a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the us- of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Popudatian per Physiian - - Pbpulation divided by number of prac-  C in.. Annua Attendae per Cita per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualifiel from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populaion per Nursin Person- Pbpulation divided by number of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and femna  graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LUOR FORCE
Populacer     HoPser oi Bed-luralban ad ra-population          Total Labo Foe (thousaidu)-Economically active persons. in-
(total. urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and pnvate. general and specialized  vrus   cou enot coparabk 16 a 97 ands.       data.
hospitals and rehabiltation centen. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not compambk 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by ai least one physican. Establishments prov-  Fnamk le(percmnt-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. include health and medical e".. *; not pernanently staffed  Agriculture (percentJ-Labor force in fanming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommnodation and provide a limnited range  data
of medical facilities.                                         Indury (percearn-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
A     dlussieu pe Hospirtl Bed-Total number of admissions to or  facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Awrieaiem Rat (percemui-eeea( make, audjm&mk,ricipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. umale and female labor force
Av-rage Size of HoMweld (persons pa bouseohedi,-af. uba,      as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andnral-A houshold consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates rflecting age-sex structure ofthe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Person per Roont-toel, urla. and rural-      Econoniic Dependeny Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of perns per room in all urban. and rural       65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percenrage of Dwelings with              mair l n       rural-  P,erentage of Total Dipoal lac.. (bet  1  cas ad kInd)-
Conventional dwellings vwth eecicity in living quarters as pcrcen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tagc of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectivelyv        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
.44usred EorobeUnt Ratios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prunarr school - orel. male and frmale--Gross total. mae and  lvels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femnale enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esri_aed Abslue Povery l1cew Lee (USl per capia)-arbau
respective primary school-agc populations While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income level
consider pnmarv school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in counmrv practice in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given For some countries with universal  Estimaed Relaie Poverty Im e Lewvd e  USS per acpis)-cban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural--Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondiry school - total. mae and fiemale-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four vears of approved pn-  Esnsated Populaie Below Absolute Povery  cew Leed (per-
marv instruction; p-ovides general. vocational or teacher training  ceat-urban ad rural- Percent or population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollnirn (percent of secondarij --Vocational institu-       Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tons include technical. industrial. or othcr programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparnments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-31-
Pag 5 oi 6
Cl t n2   c   D1963, 31310 I.
n   L1              millZ  16170-1247l 1 7-ZIMIIL  M1S12 ISB2U              I5M3 19418I
Wiat market Price.            33.49        100.0         3.5              7.1          4.3    7.4      4.2      7.1
Caee dimetic iuveetweet        5.41         16.2        -5.5             4.1          16.5    9.6      3.4    10.2
~oe  matiousl mviug            3.74         11.2        -2.1             6.7           6.9   24.9    4.5        4.9
cOm_t accoet baleane          -1.65         -4.9          .               .
Iepont of pods, N1IP           3.24          9.7        -3.5             7.3          -5.6   27.5    -3.2    -1.2
luote of goods,                7.76         23.2        -7.1             5.5           0.7    1.1    22.0       7.1
GM, LAMPCKA
OUPUT. ua  = cU2/83
Valu Added               .LIhrF                       V. e la
lNlUh     .1i             111Am   JL                     Au      JL
Agriculture                   6,606    24               14.1      51                   469    47
X_dstrYj                      7.9       29               5.2      19                 1,536   153
lerices                      1303   _1 La                        i                   1-Z&    1:
Total/Avere                 27,678   100              27.6    100                  1.003   100
Cutrl  _aevnt  /a                             Wdrml  _ovtm
(sh billieo)         2 o  COF               (    41                  a
1885 a    1    1"0MSI1-1"W5             1 =          1         51-1"185
Currot reeLptc                      77.3        16.2        16.5               61.0        12.6        125
C-rrent eXPediture.                 flj          1                     1     7.              A. 0    ILA
curet eurplue                      -14.6        -3.0        -1.2              -10.0        -2.1        -0.5
Capital  peditures &                39.1        8.2          6.9               33.5         7.0         7.6
Externl ammieteoce (met)            14.6        3.1          3.5              1.8          3.1         3.5
MutT. C*IT AND PRICES
1975176  1976177  197717   17817   1970             81  IM1102  1m2u8   19mU34u 194
(te billla)
No7y and qaci wommy L                  41.6      51.7     63.7      76.6     94    106.6    116.5    146.0    163.3    132.6
lek credit to public sector            2S.1     36.6      43.5      54.9     61.8      70.9     79.7      95.5    105.6    126.6
lek credit to private sector           17.8      23.0     26.5      30.5     36.2      42.1      51.8     62.8      78.3     92.2
(percenae or linden   ar)
iMoey nd quei smny as Z of CD3         31.5      34.6     36.7      39.0     38.3      37.0     35.1      40.1      38.7     38.2
C"_omr price inde  (l109f70.100)      229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    413.1    462.0    479.3
Au_1l percentag  chlnpe in:
Comemr price index                      8.6      11.9      7.9       6.7     123       13.1       7.6      3.5      10.5      3.7
lak credit to public mctor             32.5     36.2      18.8      26.2     12.6      14.7     12.4      19.6     10.6      21.S
Nek credit to private sector           11.2     29.2      15.2      15.1     15L7      18.2     21.0      21.2      26.7     17.0
LI lamed an wVrld lek Atee ntbodology and calculated at m aveage of 196042 prices and euraue rates. All
other converSiOS to dollre in thie table are at theverape encbeeg rate prevailin  durin  the period
covered.
jc rvisionalL
k  Projection for 19U3/86  Doea not include elap1oyed labor fore.
jj Includes maufacturing.    cg.  etruction ad electricity and  ee.
L   Ccmeolidated revene em  expenditure. of Federal MA  Provincdl Co_erments (excluding Federal-Povincial
Coernment treaf er).
.    ieed budgt data.
La  3xcludin  Principal repaYemts of foreiga 1-a. Capital expeeitue ae defind in gevezAneut budtet includ
certain curreot _zpmdituree albo.
Not applicable.
Not awailabLe.
J _nay 1986



-32-
Paw. 6 of 6
UAuCx or                                                                             IlTUtr BEUIITS  (AVUACIU  19m16-19Ut=S
1980181  198111|2 1932183  1963/U4  1934185                                   us$ million        z
(VB3 million)
Exports of goods, Ws              3,401   3.052    3.416    3.,39       3.2U          Raw Cotton                    293.1        1L.5
lport. of Bodmb. m               6,466   j,il7  6458    7 ffo          7.028         Cotton yarn                   225.6         J.7
Remource ap (deficit - -)        -3,005   -3,627   -3,172   -3.619    -3.787          Cotton cloth                  292.6        11.3
lice                         377.8        14.6
Intenet pqsmets                    -357     -453    -421    -477         -462         All other ce_oditio         1J3919         5L9
Worker.' r_itttneee               2.097    2,224    2,687    2.737      2.400           Totel                     2,561.4       100.0
Otbhr factor paymnts (net)          274      321       195      359       19S
net tramfore                             
Ralance on curren  account         -991   -1,535     -551   -1.000    -1.651                   UTIUL   DEW, DZCEBt 1982
Direct foreig to ent                  .        ..       ..        .        .
Net XLT borrowing                                                                                                           Us$ milli
Disbursementa                     956    1,102    1,301    1.241      1.219
Amortieation                     -516     -492   --=JR      .569       -65o         Public debt. including guranteed        9.95129
Sub-total                         440      610      915       679       561         Vo-guaramnte.d private debt                 -
Trnectione  ith D'DW                31i      358       413      -1        -64           Total outstanding and diebureed       9.952L9
Other items n.i. eiS                546      31B      285       142        69
Increase in resve  (-              -310      249   -1,102       10    -1,085                DIST S31c1C  RATIO 101 1981/82 k
Grose reserves (end year)Ia       1.058       W09    1,911    1.731       6U                                                      I
Petrolem  importa LL              1,535    1.710    1,610    1.423      1.425         Public debt. including guaranteed         19.7
Petrolem  mparte Li                 126      194        77       40        34         Non-guaranteed privato debt
Total                                19.7
RATE 0C  1uCWaJ                                                                          IN3IIDA LDNUC t(Decmber 19832) (S million)
Throus Way 11. 1S72                Fro May 12 1972-lab. 15. 1973                                                          l           M
S551 - R. 4.7619                          05S1 - Ra 11.00                          Outetanding end diabured             357.4   1,256.2
RB I - US30.21                            Ra I - uss0.09                           Undiabureed                          242.9      6178
Outetandin  including undisbureed   600.3    1,874.6
Fro  Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7, 1982 From July 1981-June 1982 1I  From July 1982-Juse 1983 lj  From July 1983-Jue 1984 /1L Pro  July 1984-Jnme 1985
us1  I - R. 9.90               USSI - Rs 10.55               0SS1 - Re 12.75              SSI - Rs 13.50              USSI - as 15.27
as  1 -  SSC.10               Rs I - USSQ.095               Rs 1 - DSS0.078              Rs I - UBSO.074              Rs I - es40.065
&  Provisional
:b  Monetary taitiet   of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized notes. devaluation and revalution of the rupee. etc. *
frs. June 30, 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State Bank aources are not strictly comparable with DIV amtinetes for earlier yars.
is  Including Truat Fund.
Id  Including net sbart-tem borrowing and errors and  aismaons.
La Excluding gold reserves of about 1.B million troy ounces.
Li Cnrde and derivativee.
g  lloe-uaranteed private debt service is negligible.
lb  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods. non-factor nrvicee and vorker' remittancees; debt servica does not include
short-term or IFP chargee
Li Effective Janury S  1982, the rupee is to be managed with reference to a weighted beaket of currencies.  The average
ezchange rate sbown is wim-a-via USS for the period shown.
Not available.
Jaury 1986



-33-
AMn II
Page 1
STATUS OF MANK GROUP OPERATIONB IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMNT F OPM LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1986) /c_ A Lk
(Us$ million)
Lomn/                                                  (Amount net of cacellationm)
Credit    Fiscal                                                              Undis-
Number     Yeax    Prpuaoe                              ink         ID        buried
104 loans and credita fully disbursed                  813.4    1,145.15lf
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development           -           -            2.1
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation         -           70.0        66.1
877       1979   Salinity Control A Reel. (Mardan)    -             60.0        47.2
968       1980   Third WAPDA Pover                      -           45.0         2.3
974       1980   Third Highway                          -           50.0        10.4
1109/c    1981   Vocational Training                    -           25.0         7.0
1157lc    19L1   Grain Storage                          -           32.0        14.B
11S8Jc   1981   Agricultural Research                   -           24.0        14.7
1163/c    1981   On-Farm Water MNagement                -           41.0        11.7
1186/c    1982   Industrial Development (IDMP II)       -           30.0         2.8
2122      1982   Fourth Telecommunication               40.0        -            9.3
2172      19S2   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5          -           17.1
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities       10.2        -           10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADMP V)             10.0        -            5.4
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines       43.0        -           32.7
1239kc   1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -              40.0        19.8
1243/e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.        -           14.0        11.4
1256k    1982   Technical Assistance                    -            7.0         2.5
1278kc   1982   Eleventh Railway Project                -           50.0        35.2
1348ke   1963   Lehore Urban Development                -           16.0        15.5
1350kc   1983   Population                              -           18.0        13.2
1355kc   1983   Coal Engineering                        -            7.0         5.9
1374kc   1983   Karachi Water Supply                    -           25.0        19.4
1375/C    1963   Fourth Drainage                        -           65.0        66.3
1380kc   1983   Agricultural Development CADBP V)    -              47.8         5.1
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project           12.0        -            8.4
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                  51.5        -           36.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0          -           18.3
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit           50.0        -           41.7
1439k    1984   Industrial Investment Credit            -           50.0        36.0
146Ilc    1984   Integrated Rill Farming Development  -             21.0        22.4
1480/c    1984   Second Technical Assistance            -            7.0         7.0
1487/c    1984   Comeand Water Management               -           46.5        47.1
1499kc   1984   Second Small Industries                 -           50.0        39.5
15321c    1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -            150.0       168.0
1533kc   1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -               8.3         8.6
2499      1985   Fourtb WAPDA Pover                    100.0        -          100.0
1602/c    1985   Second Primary Education               -           52.5        56.8
1603kc   1985   Second On-Farm Water Management         -           34.5        39.6
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loan                    178.0        -          177.9
2553      1985   Petroleum Resources Joint Venture    55.0          -           39.4
2556      1985   Fifth VAPDA Pover                     100.0        -          100.0
2648/d    1986   Industrial Investment Credit          148.0                   148.0
16464/    1986   Industrial Investmnt Credit                         2.0         2.0
1652/d    1986   Karachi Special Development                        70.0        70.0
Total                                                1,679.6    2,303.8      1,615.1
of vhich has been repaid                             519.7        49.3
Total nov outstanding                                1,159.9    2,254.5
Amount sold                  30.0
of which hba  been repaid    23f9                      6.  
Total nov held by  ank and IDA:                      1J153.8    2 254.5
Total undisbureed                                      746.8       868.3     1.615.1
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Elxecutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Lb  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for pro-
jects in the former East Pakistan which have nov been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  IDA Credits under the 6th and 7th Replenishment are denominted in SDRs. The
principal and non-effective Credits are shown in USS equivalent at the time of
negotiations. Disbursed unts are computed at the exchange rate applicable
on the transaction dates. Undisbursed mounts are valued at the exchange rate
applicable an the dete of this statement.
/d  Not yet effective.



-34-
AMInE II
Page 2
B. STATIZE IT OF INC IUYSTNTS (as of March 31. 1986)
Fiscal                                            Acount  In US$  Million
Year    Obl&mx               Type of susiness      los   Kauitv    Total
1958     Steel Corp of        Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.        Products             0.63      -        0.63
1959    Adaujee Industries
Ltd.                 Teztiles             0.75      -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.      Cement               5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-   PICIC                 Develop mt
1969-                         Fiancin               -       0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
5 Products           Teztiles             1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.        Paper Products       19.25    0.84     20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.            Paper                 5.38    2.02      7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilixers          1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.         Food and Food
Procesing            2.40    0.36      2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock      Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.        Petrocehmicals      29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation     Wbven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78     -        1.78
1980     Predier JBord
Mills Ltd.           Particle Board        2.70     -        2.70
1981     Babib Arkady         Food and Food
Processing           3.15    0.16      3.31
1982    Asbestos              Cement               4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                 Petrochemicals     102.16    1.56    103.72
1985     National Dew.        Money and
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market.      4.64    0.37       5.01
1986     Mari Gas             Chemicals and
Petrochemicals      44.63     -       44.63
Total Gross Commitments                 228.58   11.32    239.90
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales             165I0Q    0.38    165.47
Total Comitments Now leld by IFC         63.49   10.94      74.43
Undisbursed (including participants)     49.88    0.51      50.39



-35-                           Annex III
PAKISTAN
XOT ADDM CONBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
SuguleMentary Prgiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Tine taken to prepare the project:
Four months.
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
WAPDA.
(c) Date of first presentation to the BDank, and date of the first
Bank mission to consider the project:
September 1985; September 1985.
Sd) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:
September 20, 1985.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations:
March 26, 1986
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
None
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness:  (i) approval
by the Executive Committee of the Pakistan National Economic Council (ECNEC)
of the PC-1 document for the project (para 48); (ii) the announcement of a
tariff increase effective July 1, 1986 vhich would enable WAPDA to generate
internally at least 40% of its FY87 capital investment requirements (para
61); (iii) substantial reduction in Government arrears owed to WAPDA (para
64); and (iv) the confirmation by GOP that a contract for the construction
of the Mabmood Kot to Kot Addu fuel pipeline has been signed (para 52).



LAHORE  RING                  u  s             /,   ~      CHINA                                                                         mmh.w    % b
t   SHAm KAKu  Area of Map~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~imam   m w~ ai
Z    AFOPANISTAN                                                                                           asmYSW VW bm"W*
~~~~ILAKHPAAKITA
ROAD                                                                                                                                                              of  ICLASAI
NISI4ATLAHAPATA   
It
b  TaN.wA#ulrjn -                                                                                            *Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MtoL
CHINI                                                                                                          %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA  J~151LIIA
ROA                                                                                         RAG"
20                              -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     BAN~~~~~~~~U:1[
ISH-



-30
Ou hA YJI -s
KOT /   H             (           KOTADDUCOMBINED
4   tI"ZDAR  <  @      9          /'  \    ,_._.i                      CYCLE POWER PROJECT
O  \Es      Pi KXUR                      j          -'/               Main Power Stations and Transmission Lines
0~~~~~~~~~~
t  /y1 k 1S/ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER
/ /r~~~~~~~~~~ KO ADDr CONSTUCION4h45hPOOED
HIZA                   SH/  /    |/O                                                    PWRAOE
/   ^, v   /   /  v                 !                     EXIST_Nl    PLANE    PRJCYCL   PO E PROJECT
, )   DAOU|      1.                       - --       ___           _               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSMISSION tINES:
\t1-   A               \             ~~~-         '                            46l12 W
26-                           \xt      1      s         n                                                               GRID STATIONS 4R
\   2   \  >    '         J                                      *                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXTENS9ONS OF EXISTING 500 kY
OR       POWER    POWERAOADIPOWER STATIONS
EXISTING    PLANNED   PROJECTSOROPROJTCT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                    ...tM.                       66/13   kV.tHRA
-26'                                                                                                 GRID /t   ~   \   .  STEAM
N OM,INE W   YCLE
A-       r y  .   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5                                                                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~LKH      2 
_                      100,   ,   J  o  zo    200 MILES _1
66_  '                                                                                                                                    (J 70  7






