Dewiness lt
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6020-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
April 28, 1986
Energy Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit               Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
Rupee 1                =    Paisa 100
Rupee I                -    US$0.0625
kupees 1,000,000            US$62,500
US$1                   5    PRs 16.0
US$1,000,000           -    PRs 16,000,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                -    0.6214 miles (mi)
I Ton (t)                       -    1,000 kilograms (kg)=2,200 pounds (lbs)
1 Kilovolt (kV)                 -    1,000 volts (V)
1 Megawatt (MW)                 -    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)              1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 Kilowatt hour (kWh)          =    1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)           =    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 Kilocalorie (Kcal)            =    3.97 British Thermal Units (BTe)
I Ton of oil equivalent (toe) =    10,200 Kcal/kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
ADP     -   Annual Development Plan
AEB     -   Area Electricity Board
AG      -   Auditor General
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
CIP     -   Core Investment Program
CDWP    -   Central Development Working Party
ECC     -   Economic Coordination Committee
ECNEC   -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERWG    -   Energy Review Working Group
ESL     -   Energy Sector Loan
GOP     -   Government of Pakistan
HSD     -   High Speed Diesel
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IERR    -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
KESC    -   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, Ltd.
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC    -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
MPD     -   Ministry of Planning and Development
MPNR    -   Ministry of Petroleua. and Natural Resources
NEPC    -   National Energy Policy Committee
OGDC    -   Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PARCO   -   Pakistan Arab Company
PMDC    -   Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PSO     -   Pakistan Sate Oil Company
SGC     -   Southern Gas Company
SNGPL   -   Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd.
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
WAP!A   -   Water and Power Development Authority
GOP AND WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Is  THE ENERGY SECTOR ..............1...........................    1
A.  Strategy for the Development of the Energy Sector .....    1
B.  The Bank Group Strategy and Involvement ................    5
II.  THE BORROWER *        .............................................  7
A.  Organization of WAPDA             7................  ......    7
B.  Existing Facilities *...e.........*....                        8
C.  Power Planning .......            ............  ....    8
III.  THE PROJECT ...................                                   12.....................
IV.  FINANCES ............................................             19
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ....................................   30
A.  Forecast of Electricity Sales by WAPDA    .................   30
B.  Least Cost Alternative ............................ *         31
C.  Return on Investment ......................*...*.             31
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..................*......*   33
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. Linard de Guertechin (Engineer),
M. Sharma (Consultant), S. Babbar (Engineer), J. Vance (Senior Financial Analyst),
R. Sharma (Financial Analyst), and Gauhar Ali (Energy Advisor, Pakistan
Resident Mission).
This document has a sttid distibuton nd may be ued by cipients only in the pene
of thek officl dutie Its contents may not otherwis be dickad without World Bank authodrnion.



'-ii-
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.1   -   Strategy for the Development of the Energy Sector  ....   35
1.2   -  Organization Chart - Energy Sector         ...................    42
2.1   -   Organization Chart - WAPDA ...........................     43
2.2   -   Organization Chart - Power Wing ......................     44
2.3   -   WAPDA Thermal Generation Statistics ..................    45
2.4   -   Forecast of Energy Balances         ..........................    47
3.1   -   Project Description          ...........................   48
3.2   -   Project Costs                    .....................    49
3.3   -   Project Implementation Schedule         ......................    52
3.4   -   Schedule of Disbursements         ............................    53
4.1   -   WAPDA Balance Sheets         .................................    54
4.2   -  WAPDA Income Statements          ..............................    55
4.3   -   WAPDA Sources and Application of Funds Statements ....      56
4.4   -   Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts  ........
4.5   -   WAPDA Investment Program for PY85-FY93       ...............    60
4.6   -   Summary of Status and Plans for strengthening WAPDA's
Financial and Commercial Operations under the WAPDA/
USAID Power Distribution Project ......................    62
5.1   -   Actual and Projected Power Demand and Energy Sales ...    66
5.2   -   Assumption for Rate of Return on Project ......,......    67
6.1   -   Documents and Information in the Project File * .......    69
MAP
IBRD 19384



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower             : Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Guarantor            :  Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount               : US$90.0 million equivalent
Terms                : Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate
Project Description : The main objectives of the proposed Project are to
assist WAPDA in meeting the electricity demand in the
country by adding about 200 MW of thermal capacity
while improving the fuel efficiency of the combustion
turbines at Kot Addu. The proposed Project involves
the conversion of two 100 MW and two 125 MW combustion
turbines under construction at Kot Addu into combined
cycle units with the addition of four heat recovery
boilers and two 100 MW steam turbo-generators as well
as the associated transmission system for connection to
the grid. The station is expected to operate on high
speed diesel oil (HSD); however, provision is being
made for the use of alternate fuel (gas, furnace oil,
crude oil). The fuel will be supplied near Multan,
through an existing pipeline from Karachi to Gujrat,
which would be extended to Kot Addu with a 30 km spur
pipeline by the Pakistan State Oil Company (PSO), the
fuel supply company. There are no unusual risks
foreseen for the implementation and operation of the
proposed Project. WAPDA is experienced in the design
and construction of generation and transmission
facilities but will receive assistance from
consultants in relation to the combined cycle units,
as these represents a new technology for both WAPDA
and Pakistan.



Local            Foreign          Total
-------        US$ million-
Estimated Costs:l/
Preliminary and Civil Works             12.5              -                12.5
Power Station Equipment                 28.4             56.1              84.5
Transmission Equipment                   1.6              3.8               5.4
Erection                                 9.7              4.4              14.1
Consultancy                                               1.4               1.4
Engineering and Administration           4.8               -                4.8
Total Base Cost                       57.0             65.7             122.7
Physical Contingencies                   7.6              5.5              13.1
Price Contingencies                     20.8             18.8              39.6
Total Project Cost                    85.4             90.0             175.4
Interest During Construction
Bank                                 -              12.4              12.4
Other                                              _ _                --
Total Financing Required              85.4            102.4             187.8
Financing Plan:
IBRD Loan                                 -              90.0              90.0
WAPDA                                   75.1               -               75.1
GOP                                     10.3             12.4              22.7
Total                                 85.4            102.4             187.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD                                     FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
---US$ million------------
Annual                                    3.2    16.0    35.0    25.8    10.0
Cumulative                                3.2    19.2    54.2    80.0    90.0
Rate of Return: 15.2Z
Map            :  IBRD 19384
1/ Including local duties and taxes of US$36.0 million.



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Strategy for the Development of the Energy Sector
1.01    Pakistan's commercially exploitable domestic energy resources consist
in order of importance  of hydropower, natural  gas, oil and  coal.  In addi-
tion, the  country has  a large  base of  renewable energy  in  the  form  of
agriculture and animal  wastes, and  solar and  wind energy.   The hydropower
potential is estimated  at about 30,000 MW,  of which only  2,897 MW has been
developed and  1,928 MW is  under construction  or at  an advanced  stage  of
preparation. In addition, 3,600 MW will be added when the site at Kalabagh
is fully developed. Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially exploitable
hydrocarbon resource, with proven and probable reserves estimated at about
340 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Proven and probable reserves of
oil are estimated at  about 58 million toe.   Consequently, the prospects are
good for increasing the supply of domestic hydrocarbons; however, this would
only be achieved by increasing the private sector's participation in explora-
tion to reduce the risk :orne by the Government of Pakistan (GOP)(para 1.04).
Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at about 900 million tons, of which
only 175 million tons are proven. GOP has outlined a systematic program for
the formulation of a comprehensive coal exploration strategy to determine the
reserves where  further assessment  is justified.   The first  phase  of  the
program would be carried out in 1987 and 1988. GOP is also assessing, under
financing from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
the potential for stimulating increased private sector involvement in coal
production using the reserves at Lakhra as a model. If the results at Lakhra
are favorable, the same model could be applied to other promising areas. By
and large, the development of Pakistan's domestic energy resources has
progressed at a substantially slower pace than is warranted by the size of
reserves mainly because of financial constraints. As a result, the country's
dependence on imported energy increased which contributed to the rapid growth
of imports and external payments deficits.
1.02    In recognition of the  possible adverse impact on  the economy of the
sustained growth in the demand for energy and increased dependence on
imported  energy,  the  Fifth  Five-Year   Plan  (FY79-FY83)  emphasized  the
accelerated development of domestic energy resources and rationalization of
consumption. However, the plan targets were not achieved. In addressing the
set-backs experienced in achieving the energy targets of the Fifth Plan, GOP
included the energy sector among the high priority sectors in the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (FY84-FY88) by increasing its share of the resources and



-2-
taking several  important policy  initiatives.   Despite  these  actions,  it
became evident during the first two years of the Plan that supply targets
were not likely to be achieved fully. The shortfall in achieving the targets
of the Fifth and Sixth Plans was mainly due to: (a) the shortages of finan-
cial resources, precipitated by the underpricing of natural gas and elec-
tricity which, in turn, stimulated consumption and resulted in severe and
frequent supply interruptions; and (b) the absence of a system for setting
priorities in investment and for mobilizing resources for their implementa-
tion.   As  a  result,  the  development  of  primary  and  secondary  energy
progressed in a piecemeal fashion, dictated primarily by the availability of
financial resources, causing persistent gaps between actual and planned
investments.
1.03    The lack of  progress under the Fifth  Plan, the setbacks experienced
in the implementation of the investment program for the energy sector during
the first two years of the Sixth Plan and the likelihood that resource con-
straints would continue into the immediate future prompted GOP to formulate a
comprehensive development strategy to address the major sectoral issues. The
strategy was formulated in 1985 in collaboration with the Bank, under the
Energy Sector Loan (ESL) (Ln. 2552-PAK). It invoived a two-pronged approach.
The first focuses on minimizing the shortfalls in energy during the remaining
three years (FY86-FY88) of the current Plan period and on ensuring that
investments needed for the Seventh Five-Year Plan are identified and imple-
mented. The second calls for studies to outline the framework for the
integrated development of the sector during the Seventh and Eighth Plan
periods. The actions and studies under the energy development strategy are
categorized   under   three   headings:   (i) investment   and   development;
(ii) pricing and demand management; and (iii) institutional development. A
summary of the issues identified, the plan of action outlined to address them
and the target dates for achieving them is summarized in Annex 1.
1.04    Investment and Development.  The first element of the strategy formu-
lated was to revise the supply targets of the Sixth Plan and outline a Core
Investment Program that covers the remaining three years (FY86-FY88) of the
Plan. The core program for power covers ongoing projects needed to achieve
the revised supply targets and projects to be initiated during the remainder
of the Sixth Plan to ensure smooth transition to the Seventh Plan. Moreover,
it calls for predetermined yearly financial allocations between generation,
transmission and distribution to balance the development of the power subsec-
tor. In the oil and gas subsector, the core program covers the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation's (OGDC) annual program of exploration and develop-
ment of specific low risk gas and oil prone areas, and the allocation of a
yearly budget by GOP to implement the program. In addition, a program paral-
lel to that of OGDC was outlined involving the development of fields suitable
for attracting risk capital through joint venture. A new gas producer price
formula was introduced under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK) to stimulate the interest of
the international oil firms in undertaking exploration drilling in Pakistan
(para 1.06).



-3-
1.05    The financial requirements of the  core investment program amounts to
about Rs 50 billion (US$3.2) of which Rs 36.5 billion (US$2.3 billion) would
be absorbed by the power subsector; Rs 12.8 billion (US$0.8 billion) by the
petroleum subsector; Rs 0.4 billion (US$24 million) by the coal subsector;
and Rs 0.25 billion (US$17 million) by energy planning and conservation
activities. To finance the core investment program, the Government would
contribute Rs 8.7 billion (US$0.6 billion) from the Annual Development Plan
(ADP) and the contribution of the entities from their internally-generated
funds would  amount to  Rs 14.7  billion  (US$0.9  billion).   The  remaining
Rs 26.4 billion (US$1.7 billion) would be in the form of loans, grants and
suppliers' credits, the bulk of which have been secured.
1.06    Pricing  and Demand  Management.  The  petroleum  products  subsector
continues to be a net contrit.tor to the resources of COP. In December 1985,
the weighted average domestic price of petroleum products was at 148% of the
border price, US$287/toe compared to US$194/toe. Under the prevailing price
structure, prices of all petroleum products are above their respective border
prices, with the exception of fuel oil which is below its border price by
about US$39/toe. The price of natural gas, by contrast, was maintained at
levels substantially below those of competing petroleum products, reflecting
(?OP's decision to buffer the economy from the adverse impact of the higher
cost of imported energy. This stimulated demand and by 1981, supply con-
straints started to emerge. Accordingly, under SAL I (1981), COP decided to
increase the price of gas to reach two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by
FY88. The same policy was reiterated under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK). In implement-
ing the gas pricing policy, the weighted average domestic price of gas has
been increased  since 1981  at an  average annual  rate of  about 30%.   As a
result, in December 1985, the weighted average price of gas was about 65% of
the border price of fuel oil, that is, US$96/toe compared to US$147/toe. In
addition, a new producer price for natural gas was introduced in 1985, which
links the price of new gas to the border price of fuel oil less a discount to
be determined on a  field by field  basis.  This formula  would provide added
incentives for the international petroleum firms to increase their explora-
tion activities in high risks gas prone areas (para 1.04).
1.07    As  regards electricity,  the averige  revenue, including  fuel  sur-
charge, in FY85  was 61 paisa/kWh  for WAPDA, representing  about 60%  of the
average long-run marginal cost (LRMC)  of 110 paisa/kWh.   Despite the diver-
gence between the average revenue and LRMC, WAPDA has been able to finance
more than 40% of its investment program from internally generated revenues
because actual investments in the past have amounted to only about 50% of the
planned investment. In order to ensure that actual and planned investments
do not diverge, GOP and WAPDA agreed under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK) to undertake
all necessary measures including tariff increases and annual allocations from
the  budget  to  ensure   that  the  core  investment   program  is  financed
(paras 4.09, 4.10  and 4.11).   Electricity tariffs  which had  changed  very
little since November 1981 were increased, effective July 1, 1985, by 10%



-4-
across the  board for  all consumers.   Based on  the  Bank's  forecast,  the
implementation of WAPDA's investment program for the period FY87-FY94 would
require annual real increases in tariffs of about 8% for the next eight
years. The forecasts further show that for FY87, tariffs will need to be
increased by about 11% on July 1, 1986, in order for WAPDA to cover 40% of
its core investment program  for FY87 from internal  sources (para 4.11).  In
addition, WAPDA has recruited Argonne Laboratories in the USA, under financ-
ing from United Nations Development Program (UNDP). to design a system for
the  collection,  storage  and   retrieval  of  data  on   the  power  system
(para 2.05). Concurrently, WAPDA, assisted by consultants, EBASCO Services,
a US firm, under financing from USAID, has initiated a load research and
management study to compile detailed information on the pattern (extent,
duration, load factors, etc.) of electricity consumption by the variouj
consumer categories (paras 4.04 and 5.02). The data base study is expected
to be completed by December 1986 (para 2.05), and the load management by
September 1987. These would provide the necessary inputs needed for restruc-
turing electricity tariffs  in Pakistan.  In  the interim WAPDA  is assessing
the impact on consumers of introducing a fuel surcharge in the tariff for the
low voltage consumers. Current plans call for this change to be introduced
in FY87.
1.08    Institutional  Responsibilities and  Development.   Three  ministries
share the responsibility for supervising the operational entities and agen-
cies involved in the energy sector.  These  are the Ministry of Petrolevm, and
Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry of Water and Power, and the Ministry
of Production. In addition, the Energy Division of the Ministry of Planning
and Development (MPD) has responsibility for energy planning. Operational
responsibilities in the sector are vested in a large number of entities and
agencies in  both the  public and  the private  sectors.   As  shown  in  the
organization chart in Annex 1.2, all these entities and agencies, come under
the jurisdiction of HPNR, except for three state organizations engaged in oil
refining or petrochemicals, the two electricity supply organizations and the
Appropriate Technology Development Corporation. Nuclear energy comes under
the office of the Prime Minister. Coordination between the ministries on
energy matters is secured through a number of committees, namely the National
Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), Energy Review Working Group (ERWC), the
Economic Coordination Committee (ECC), the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC), and the Central Development Working Party
(CDWP). NEPC is responsible for the formulation of GOP's overall energy
policy. ERWG performs the functions of inter-ministerial coordination as
well as monitors the status of on-going projects in the public sector and
endeavors to remove the operational bottlenecks. The review of the financial
plans of the sector and the approval of energy pricing proposals is under the
jurisdiction of ECC. ECNEC and CDWP review and approve major proposals and
projects in the energy sector, as in other sectors.
1.09    The main  issue concerning the  organization of the  energy sector is
the multiplicity of ministries and committees responsible for planning,



-5-
coordinating and monitoring the performance of the public and private
enterprises involved in the production, transport and delivery of energy
products. This division of responsibility spreads the scarce human resour-
ces, particularty at the techiical level, among a large number of public
agencies resulting in  reduced effectiveness of  each agency.   Recently, GOP
under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK) created in MPD an energy planning cell (ENERPLnN)
with USAID financing, and an energy conservation unit (ENERCON) with joint
USAID and  Bank financing.   ENERPLAN is  mandated to  collect,  compile  and
analyze, on an on-going basis, alL relevant data on the energy sector and
integrate them with the country's annual, five-year and long-term development
plans, to enable GOP to identify priorities and evaluate resource require-
ments to support effective policy formulation and investment planning.
ENERPLAN would be staffed by Pakistani personnel who will be assisted during
the first four years by consultants financed by USAID. CNERCON would serve
as the focal point for all conservation activities and its main respon-
sibilities will be to plan energy conservation actions, formulate policy
guidelines, develop a data-base, support training activities and private
research, undertake development and demonstration as well as public informa-
tion activities, and monitor the implementation of conservation program of
various public  and private  entities.  It  would formulate  a  c.nprehensive
national energy  conservation program  by the  end of  1986.   The  long-term
consultants for the ENERCON project are expected to start work in mid-1986.
B. The Bank Group Strategy and Involvement
1.10    The Bank's broad objectives in the  sector involve the support of the
policies initiated under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK), and the allocation of resources
for specific projects included in the core investment program (para 1.03).
In the area of primary energy production, the Bank would support the
implementation of a comprehensive plan for the exploration and development of
hydrocarbons and coal. In addition, it would support an investment program
aimed at the substitution of lower-value products, particula.ly imported coal
for gas in power generation and the release of gas for use by industry and
households as a substitute for imported petroleum products. As for hydro
potential, emphasis would be on providing technical and financial support for
the development of high priority schemes. Efforts would also be directed
toward retrofitting and restructuring the refinery subsector, as well as the
rationalization of the infrastructure for the transport of liquid hydrocar-
bons and gas. The Bank would also support the formulation of plans for
bringing domestic prices of energy products to parity with their respective
cost to the economy to rationalize consumption and mobilize resources for
GOP, and for investing in rehabilitation and retrofitting in major energy
consuming industries, such as oil refineries, fertilizers, cement, etc. In
the power subsector, the Bank has directed its efforts to strengthening
WAPDA's management and technical capabilities.   WAPDA has improved its over-
all financial operations by developing modern accounting and commercial
systems (para 4.02).   The Bank  would continue  supporting  the  institution
building measures already undertaken by WAPDA, including the strengthening of



-6-
technical capability in formulating an integrated least cost plan for the
development of generation, transmission and distribution facilities.
1.11    The Bank  Group involvement  in Pakistan's  energy sector  started in
1955, with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station.
Since then, it has assisted in financing projects in all energy subsectors.
In the power subsector, the Bank has participated in the Indus Basin Develop-
ment Projects, which include the hydrogeneration development at Mangla and
Tarbela. A series of four credits/loans were made to KESC between 1955 and
1967 for the development of its generation capacity. Since 1970, the Bank
has been more directly involved in COP's program for strengthening the power
transmission and distribution networks, for which five credits/loans were
made to WAPDA. The first (Cr. 213-PAK) of US$23 milLion, made in 1970,
covered the cost of upgrading the transmission network. A second operation,
a Third Window loan (Ln. 1208T-PAK) of US$50 million, subsequently reduced bv
US$15 million due to savings achieved under international competitive bid-
ding, was made in 1975 to finance the development of part of the 500-kV
transmission system to connect the hydra resources of the north with the
thermal generation in the center and south to provide the most economic means
of supplying power throughout the country. A third operation (Cr. 968-PAK)
in the amount of US$45 million was made to cover four years of WAPDA's
program for the development of the secondary transmission (FY79-FY83),
involving the erection of about 4,345 km of single and double circuit lines
and the  construction, expansion  and conversion  of 216  substations.   This
project was completed in December 1985.
1.12    In  FY85, four  loans amounting  to a  total of  US$433 million  were
approved by the Bank.   The Fourth WAPDA Power  Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) for an
amount of US$100 million is a continuation of the Third WAPDA Power Project
(Cr. 968-PAK) and covers the construction of a total of about 3,890 km of
transmission lines and 227 substations, including expansion of 86 substa-
tions, ot the  subtransmission system over  the period FY86-FY90.   The Fifth
WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2556-PAK) for an amount of US$100 million was
approved in order to assist WAPDA in the installation of about 1,100 km of
500-kV transmission line between Lahore and Jamshoro via Sahiwal, Multan,
Guddu and Dadu, and of new 500-kY substations at Lahore and Sahiwal and the
extension and reinforcement of existing 500-kV substations at Multan, Guddu,
Dadu and  Jamshoro (para 2.09).   In the  area of  petroleum exploration  and
development, the Bank approved a Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project
(Ln. 2553-PAK) with a view to financing the Government's and OGDC's share of
foreign exchange commitments under the existing joint ventures with private
sector as the operator in Badin and North Potwar blocks and the new joint
ventures yet to be firmed up during the next three years (para 1.04).



-7-
II. THE BORROWER
A. Organization of WAPDA
2.01    WAPDA, the beneficiary of the loan,  was established in 1958 to coor-
dinate the development of Pakistan's water and power resources. It is a
semi-autonomous agency whose capital investment program and tariffs are
approved by GOP. WAPDA is divided into two largely independent 'wings' one
for power and the other for water (Annex 2.1). The Power Wing is responsible
for the construction and operation of power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities throughout the country, except the Karachi area which
is served by KESC.   The Water Wing  is responsible for  the overall planning
and investigation of water resources, and the design and construction of
surface and groundwater development projects for the federal and provincial
governments. WAPDA's governing body, referred to as the "Authority", con-
sists of a chairman and three members who are in charge of power, water, and
finance, and are designated Member (Power), Member (Water) and Member
(Finance) respectively.   The members  are appointed  by the  Government  and
function as chief executives of their respective groups.
2.02    Member (Power) is  assisted by a Deputy  Managing Director (distribu-
tion) and seven general managers in charge of generation (thermal), gener-
ation (hydel), transmission and grid stations, finance, coordination and
planning, system operation and load dispatch, and inventory control. The
organization of the Power Wing which, for convenience, is herein referred to
as WAPDA, is shown in Annex 2.2. Although WAPDA is highly centralized with
respect to decision-making, its distribution department is divided into eight
Area Electricity Boards (AEBs), which were established in 1981 to take over
the responsibility for local electricity service. Each AEB has a chairman,
who is the chief engineer for the area, appointed by WAPDA for a five-year
term; three full-time members, who are also directors in charge of depart-
ments; and three part-time members representing local interests, one of whom
is normally a representative of the Provincial Government. The members of
AEBs are appointed for a period of three years.
2.03    In January 1985,  WAPDA had about 88,000  employees, 2,100 engineers,
700 other professionals, 9,200 technical and other staff, 15,000 administra-
tive and accounts staff, 44,000 skilled workers and 17,000 general staff.
The number of consumers served by WAPDA in that same year was about 4.5
million, representing about 51  consumers per employee.   The relatively high
consumer-employee ratio, reflecting the overstaffing of the distribution
department, 1/ has induced WAPDA to initiate a program, with the assistance
1/ The distribution department accounts for about 70% of WAPDA's staff.



-8-
of consultants, EBASCO Services, a U.S. firm financed by USAID, for stream-
lining the operations of the distribution department and for updating its
policies, procedures and methods (paras 4.02 and 4.14). These same consult-
ants are also assessing the viability of creating a Power Distribution
Authority. In addition, in order to promote the integrated development of
the power subsector, GOP has agreed under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK) to review the
means for reorganizing the subsector. COP is presently examining the legal
implications of assigning to WAPDA the responsibility of generation and high
voltage transmission of electricity for the entire country and restricting
KESC's operation to the bulk purchase of power from WAPDA for distribution in
the Karachi area. Consideration is also being given by GOP to private sector
involvement in the power subsector. Toward that end, GOP appointed in August
1985 a National Deregulation Commission headed by the Governor of the State
Bank of  Pakistan.  One  of its  objectives is  to  outline  a  strategy  for
increasing private sector  involvement in  power distribution.  Moreover, ECC
approved in September 1985 a charter of  terms and conditions under which the
private sector would  be invited to  participate in power  generation, in the
context of the  agreed medium and  long-term plans. A  detailed framework for
compensating potential private firms involved in the supply of power in
Pakistan is currently being formulated.  The  Bank would review tne means and
the timetable for reorganizing the subsector.
B. Existing Facilities
2.04    In  June  1985,  WAPDA's  total  installed  generating  capacity  was
4,339 MW, comprising 2,897 MW (67%) of hydro and 1,442 MW (33%) of thermal
capacity. The maximum potential output of the existing hydro stations
amounts to about 3,100 MW when all the reservoirs are full. This potential
drops to about 1,000 MW during the dry seasons, and has to be offset by
thermal generation, including the more extensive use of combustion turbines
than for the normal peak load, because of the overall shortage of generating
capacity (Annex 2.3). According to WAPDA, the shortfall between demand and
the generation capability of its system, estimated at about 1,000 MW in
January 1985 and about 1,200 MW in June 1985, is expected to continue into
the mid-1990s (paras 4.07 and 5.02).
C. Power Planning
2.05     The  slippages   in  the   implementation  of   investment  program,
precipita:ed by both resource constraints (paras 1.07, 4.01 and 4.06) and the
absence of a mechanism that would identify priority projects and the scale
and timir.g of investments (para 1.02), prompted WAPDA to formulate, with the
assistance of Argonne Laboratories, under financing fromi UNDP, with the Bank
as the executing agency, an interim least-cost program for the development of
generation facilities. A revised national long-term least cost plan which
incorporates the more recent developments in the subsector is expected to be
compLeted by December 31, 1986. In addition, in order to strengthen WAPDA's
in-house power system planning capability, Argonne, under the auspices of the



-9-
International Atomic Energy Agency, has trained its staff in the use of the
Wien Automatic System Planning (WASP III) computer model and has successfully
installed that model  on WAPDA's computer  in early 1985.   This would enable
WAPDA to revise the national least-cost plan, as and when needed, incorporat-
ing the updated information on the operation of the subsector, including
hydrology, water management and pattern of electricity consumption. Argonne
National Laboratory, under financing from UNDP, is presently assisting WAPDA
in outlining a system for collection, storage and retrieval of data on the
power system. The consultants are expected to complete this work by the end
of 1986 (para 1.07).
Ceneration Program
2.06    Based on the  interim long-term least cost  development plan, WAPDA's
installed generating capacity is forecast to increase from 4,339 MW in June
1985 to 9,416 MW in 1993. This would involve the commissioning of Projects
under  construction  including:   the  extension  at   Tarbela  (Units 11-14,
4x432 MW), a steam unit (Unit No. 4, 210 MW) and a combined cycle station
(450 MW) at Cuddu, a steam unit (Unit No. 1, 250 MW) at Jamshoro, and a set
of combustion turbines at Kot Addu (4x10 MW). Financing for the above
projects has been secured. All of these units, except the ones at Tarbela,
are expected to be commissioned during the Sixth Five-vear Plan. Units 11
and 12 at Tarbela are expected to be commissioned in December 1989, and units
13 and 14 in June 1990. In addition, the interim plan calls for the develop-
ment of: a Large hydropower scheme at Kalabagh with a total capacity of
3,200 MW when fully developed and a number of low-head hydro schemes inves-
tigated by consultants under financing from Federal Republic of Germany; an
imported coal complex at Karachi; and thermal capacities at Lakhra based on
domestic coal and at Jamshoro based on fuel oil. Project implementation
schedule for Kalabagh provides for construction over an eight-year period
with civil works beginning end-1987.
2.0?    A prefeasibility  study for the  imported coal complex  has been com-
pleted by consultants, Shawinigan Integ, a Canadidli firm, under financing
from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Bank. The
consultants have identified three possible sites - two near the existing Port
Qasim and the third, in the area west of Karachi. The feasibility study and
detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents for the first phase
of the imported coal power complex are expected to be completed by Decem-
ber 31, 1987. The feasibility studies for the Lakhra mine and power station
are under preparation by consultants, Gilbert Commonwealth, J.T. Boyd and
ICF, U.S. firms, under USAID financing. The results of these studies would
be reviewed by the Bank. The prefeasibility study for the plants at Jamshoro
has been completed by consultants, Bechtel International, Inc., a U.S. firm,
under financing from USAID who are also expected to finance the detailed
engineering. The study shows that the expansion of the installed capacity
from 670 MW to about 1,600 MW and the construction of a pipeline to transport
fuel oil for the operation of the plants would be economic. In view of the



-10-
need to diversify the fuel used for power generation and expand the gener-
ating capacity to reduce power shortages, WAPDA agreed to recruit consult-
ant3 with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, to undertake a feasibility study and detailed engineering, and
prepare the bidding documents for the second stage of the power generation
complex at Jamshoro; the work should be completed and reviewed in consult-
ation with the Bank by no later than March 31, 1987 (para 6.02(a)).
2.08    In  addition, in  order to  improve the  efficiency of  the  existing
thermal power plants WAPDA with the assistance of consultants, Stone and
Webster, a U.S. firm, financed by USAID, has prepared a program for their
rehabilitation and retrofitting.   The principal eiements  of the recommended
program, which would increase WAPDA's generating capacity by about 200 MW,
would form the basis of a project suitable for possible Bank financing in
FY87.
Transmission Program
2.09    Major hydro  resources are located  in the north  of the  country and
thermal facilities and load centers are concentrated in the center and the
south, which requires the bulk transmission of electricity over long distan-
ces. In order to ensure the efficient evacuation of power, WAPDA's long-term
plan calls for the development of extra high voltage (500-kV) transmission
lines between Tarbela and Karachi by 1990. The Tarbela-Faisalabad section
(about 300 kn) of the first 500-kV transmission line is already in service;
the section from Faisalabad to Jamshoro via Multan and Guddu, presently
operated at 220-kV, is being upgraded for 500-kV operation. A double circuit
220-kV transmission link between Jamshoro and Karachi (about 130 km) was
completed  in  December  1984.   The  second  500-kV  line  from  Tarbela  to
Faisalabad was commissioned in August 1985 with financial assistance from
CIDA. The transmission system will be further reinforced with the completion
by 1990 of a third 500-kV line. The section between Tarbela and Lahore is
financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and section between Lahore and
Jamshoro via Multan and Guddu is financed by the Bank (Ln. 2556-PAK)
(para 1.12). The 220-kV network and subtransmission system would also be
expanded during the period FY85-FY89 under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project
(Ln. 2499-PAK) (para 1.12) whose development would be integrated and coor-
dinated with the expansion of the high voltage transmission and distribution
systems. As losses in the network are relatively high, about 27X of gross
generation, WAPDA has also initiated a study, with the assistance of consult-
ants, EBASCO Services, a US firm, financed by USAID, to prepare a detailed
work and inviestment programs needed to reduce losses to economically accept-
able levels. The study, which is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986,
will serve as a basis for a possible loss reduction project suitable for Bank
financing.



-11-
Distribution and Rural Electrification Program
2.10    EBASCO Services, a US firm, financed  by USAID, is assisting WAPDA in
the design and preparation of a comprehensive Master Plan for Power Distribu-
tion System which would identify the changes required to expand as well as
improve the efficiency of WAPDA's service.   The objective of this program is
to reduce losses at the distribution level and provide for the economic
expansion of the distribution network in rural as well as urban areas. The
study, to be completed by mid-1986, has focussed specifically on: the dis-
tribution organization, energy loss analysis, establishing criteria for
selection of feeders for rehabilitation, plans for efficient distribution
expansion and practices, load management, voltage regulation and service
reliability. The Bank, together with WAPDA and USAID, will review the Master
Plan prepared by the consultants. This Master Plan, along with the study on
transmission losses (para 2.09), would serve as a basis for identifying the
transmission and distribution components of the Core Investment Program and
set a framework for selecting projects suitable for external financing.



-12-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    In  order to  rationalize investments,  GOP's energy  sector strategy
calls for the implementation of a core investment program which covers the
ongoing projects and those to be initiated during the remaining three years
of the plan (para 1.04).   One of the  ongoing projects included  in the core
investment program is the power plant at Kot Addu (400 MW), located in the
central part of the country (Map IBRD 19384). The Kot Addu power plant,
comprising four combustion turbine, was designed to ensure system stability
and provide peaking capacity at Multan, one of the main load centers in the
country. However, the forecast energy requirements indicate that these units
will be operated for at least the first ten years during off-peak periods.
Accordingly, priority has been accorded to the conversion of combustion
turbines to combined cycle operation which would allow WAPDA to make use of
the waste heat from the turbines and improve the overall efficiency of the
power plant. The conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle opera-
tion is consistent with GOP's overall objectives for the energy sector which
call for rationalizing consumption, improving efficiency and meeting future
demands at least cost to the economy.
Objective of the Project
3.02    The -primary objective of the Project  is to improve the efficiency of
the Kot Addu power station by providing 50X more power per unit of fuel
consumed. Moreover, it would also assist in reducing the forecast shortfall
in generating capacity, expected to continue until the mid-1990s, by adding
an additional 200 KW of capacity in a relatively short time.
Description of the Project
3.03    The Project, which is  described in detail in  Annex 3.1, consists of
the following components:
(a) the installation of four heat recovery boilers to be connected to
two 125 MW and two 100 MW combustion turbines currently under
construction, two steam turbo-generators of about 100 MW, together
with associated high voltage transformers, cooling water supply,
and auxiliary facilities3
(b) the construction of about 104 km of 220-kV transmission lines from
Not Addu to Multan and the addition of connecting bays at these
grid substations; and



-13-
(c)  consulting services for the preparation of specification of equip-
ment, bidding documents, evaluation of bids, finalization of
designs and supervision of erection and testing of the combined
cycle units.
Project Cost
3.04    The  estimated cost  of the  Project, including  price  and  physical
contingencies and customs duties is about US$175 million. The total financ-
ing required, inclusive of interest during construction, is US$188 million.
Of the total financing required, US$102 million would be in foreign exchange
and the remaining US$86 million would be in local costs. These estimates are
based on quotations for similar ongoing works, updated to December 1985
prices.   Physical  contingencies  were  assumed  at  7%  for  equipment  and
material, and 14% for erection services. These amount to 10.7% of the base
cost of the Project. Escalation of foreign costs is assumed at 3.25% for
FY86, 7% for FY87, and 7.25% for FY88, 7.6% for FY89 and FY90, and 6% for
FY91. Escalation of local costs is assumed at 10% for FY86, 8.5% for FY87,
and 7.5% per annum thereafter. The total price escalation amounts to 29.2%
of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Estimates of duties and taxes
amount to US$36.0 million, resulting in total cost of the Project of US$139.4
million net of  taxes and duties.   Summary of project  cost is  presented in
Table 3.1 below and details are given in Annex 3.2.
Table 3.1:  Project Estimated Cost 1/
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Rs Millioi -----   -----US$ Million-----
Preliminary and Civil Works         200        -     200   12.5          -    12.5
Power Station Equipment             454      899   1,353   28.4       56.1    84.5
Transmission Equipment               26       60       86    1.6       3.8      5.4
Erection                            156       70     226    9.7        4.4    14.1
Consultancy                           -       23       23      -       1.4      1.4
Engineering and Administration       77        -       77    4.8         -     4.8
Total Base Cost                     913   1,052   1,965   57.0        65.7   122.7
Physical Contingencies              122       83     205    7.6        5.5    13.1
Price Contingencies                 333      301     634   20.8       18.8    39.6
Total Project Cost                1,368   1,436   2,804   85.4        90.0   175.4
Interest during Construction
Bank                               -      199     199       -      12.4    12.4
Total Financing Required          1,368   1,635   3,003   85.4    102.4   187.8
1/ Figures may not add due to rounding.



-14-
Project Financing
3.05    The foreign exchange cost  of the Project would be  covered by a Bank
loan of US$90.0 million, and a loan of about US$12.4 million by GOP towards
interest during construction, which would be capitalized. The Bank loan
would be made to WAPDA with GOP as guarantor. GOP and WAPDA would provide
the local financing, amounting to US$85.4 million of which US$10.3 million
would be in the form of Rupee loan from GOP and US$75.1 million from WAPDA's
internal sources. WAPDA would bear the interest rate risk and cost overruns
and GOP would bear the foreign exchange risk. The following table summarize-
the financing plan:
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
Local     Forjein      Total
(US$ Million)
IBRD Loan                    -       90.0        90.0
WAPDA                     75.1           -       75.1
GOP                       10.3        12.4       22.7
Total                     85.4       102.4      187.8
Engineering and Construction
3.06    WAPDA  has acquired  extensive experience  in  the  installation  and
operation of thermal  power stations,  both steam  units and  combustion tur-
bines, and associated  high voltage  transmission systems.   This experience,
however, does not cover the installation of combined cycle units. The first
combined cycle station of 450 MW is currently under construction at Guddu
with ADB and USAID financing.   The Project would be  the second such station
in the country. WAPDA is in the process of recruiting consultants, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in: (i) the preparation of
the specifications for the equipment and bidding documents; (ii) the evalua-
tion of bids; (iii) the finalization of the design proposed by the selected
bidder; and (iv) the supervision of the manufacture, erection, testing and
commissioning of the equipment. The cost of consulting services required for
the Project would be financed under the loan.
3.07    The proposed power  station "4ill be  located in the  outskirts of the
town of Kot Addu close to major roads and railways, which will facilitate
transport of equipment, materials  and fuel (para 3.12).   Cooling water will
be supplied from tubewells because the quality of groundwater is better than
that of the water from nearby irrigation canals. Moreover, the station would
be equipped with cooling towers in order to reduce water requirement. The
associated transmission system would consist of 132-kV lines being con-
structed under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) connecting the



-15-
station to the  regional load centers.   In addition, 220-kV  lines to Mu'Ltan
will connect  the station  with WAPDA's  national grid.   WAPDA  has  already
established a specific unit responsible for the implementation of the Project
to ensure prompt decision-making and effective coordination. Construction
would be supervised and conducted by resident engineers with the assistance
of consultants (para 3.06). In the context of the ongoing installation of
the combustion turDines, WAPDA has already started a training program for the
operation of similar facilities, using a simulator at WAPDA's training center
at Faisalabad. Specific training for the operation and maintenance of the
combined cycLe equipment included in the Project would be provided by the
equipment contractors.
Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule
3.08    WAPDA is currently  installing the four combustion  turbines to which
the equipment incLuded under the Project would be connected (para 3.01).
These turbines are scheduled to be commissioned by the end of 1986. Land has
already been acquired by WAPDA to accommodate the installation of the combus-
tion turbines and combined cycle facilities and allow for possible extension
in the future. All basic infrastructure facilities (e.g. access roads, water
supply, fuel treatment plant and storage reservoirs, accommodation for con-
tractors and WAPDA personnel) are under construction. The equipment included
in the Project is standard and preparation of tender document is straightfor-
ward and is expected to be completed before September 30, 1986. Major con-
tracts, in particular the combined package for the heat recovery boilers and
steam turbo-generators, would be awarded by June 30, 1987. Project comple-
tion is expected in mid-1990. The detailed implementation schedule for the
Project is shown in Annex 3.3. The approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document
with respect to the Project would be a condition of effectiveness for the
loan (para 6.03(a)).
Procurement
3.09    Procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized in Table 3.3.
The major equipment for the combined cycle units, estimated to cost about
US$133.5 million, would be tendered as a turnkey package, subject to interna-
tional  competitive  bidding  (ICB)  in   accordance  with  Bank  guidelines.
Auxiliary equipment for the power station and equipment associated with the
transmission facilities, estimated to cost about US$9.0 million, would be
grouped in packages and will be subject to ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. About 81% of works, goods and services for the Project would be
procured through ICB. Documents for individual contracts above US$1,000,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Local suppliers and
manufacturers competing for the supply of goods under ICB would have a 15%
preference or  the applicable  duty,  whichever  is  less.   Consultants  for
project engineering, training and technical assistance would be selected and
employed in accordance with Bank guidelines. WAPDA has requested the Bank to
authorize advance procurement and retroactive financing of up to US$500,000



-16-
to cover expenditure after December 1, 1985, and prior to loan signing, in
respect of  consulting  services  (para  3.06).   The  planned  schedule  for
procurement of the equipment and material to be financed by the Bank loan is
(a) invitation of bids: September 30, 1986; (b) first bid opening: Decem-
ber 30, 1986; (c) first award decision: June 30, 1987; and (d) first contract
signature: July 31, 1987.
Table 3.3:  Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) 1/
Project Element                          Procurement Method 2/
ICB    LCB    Other    Total
I. Power Stations
Preliminary and                              18.1              18.1
Civil Works
Main Electromechanical                133.4                   133.4
Equipment                          (81.5)                   (81.5)
Auxiliary Electromechanical             2.3   3.3               5.6
Equipment                              (1.8)                   (1.8)
II. Transmission Lines and
Substations
Civil Works & Erection                        3.5               3.5
Equipment                               6.9                     6.9
(4.7)                   (4.7)
III.  Consulting Services and                               2.0        2.0
Technical Assistance                                 (2.0)     (2.0)
IV.   Engineering and Administration                        5.9        5.9
Total                                 142.6  24.9    7.9      175.4
(88.0)         (2.0)    (90.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate the amount to be financed by the Bank.
2/  ICB:    International Competitive Bidding
LCB:    Local Competitive Bidding
Other:  Direct negotiation or not subject to commercial procurement
(e.g., land acquisition, owner expenses.)
Disbursement
3.10    The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the
CIF cost of imported goods, or (b) 100% of ex-factory costs of locally



-17-
manufactured goods, aoth being subject to ICB. Disbursement of the loan
would also  be made  against 100%  of the  foreign cost  of  consultancy.   A
schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 3.4 and relates to the project
implementation schedule (Annex 3.3). The disbursement schedule is faster
than the Bank's standard profile for thermal generation projects, five years
as against eight. This is reasonable given: (a) the shorter time required
for the manufacture and installation of equipment for the conversion to
combined cycle operation compared to Large coal-fired power stations which
feature significantly in the standard profile; and (b) the conversion to
combined cycle in this project basically involves retrofitting a station
where all infrastructural facilities are nearly complete. The Bank is satis-
fied that the proposed profile reflects worldwide experience in combined
cycle conctruction, WAPDA's implementation capabilities, and the advanced
stage of project preparation.
Fuel Supply
3.11    The Kot Addu  combustion turbines which  are at an  advanced stage of
installation would operate on 1iquid fuel to be transported from Karachi to
Gujarat, near Multan, through an existing pipeline. 1/ The pipeline has been
designed to   transport crude  oil to  a refinery  that GOP  had  planned  to
install at Multan. However, under ESL (Ln. 2552-PAK), the Government agreed
to undertake a study for the rationalization of the infrastructure for supply
and delivery of petroleum products throughout the country. Accordingly, the
status of the  proposed Multan refinery  is being reviewed.   In the interim,
the Karachi-Cujarat pipeline is being used to transport batches of kerosene
(30%) and high speed diesel oil (HSD) (70%) for distribution to mid-country
consumers. Although diesel oil would be used to operate the Kot Addu sta-
tion, the combustion turbines have been designed to use a mix of furnace oil
or crude oil (80%) and HSD (20%), in the event that these fuels become avail-
able in the area, through the pipeline or the refinery. An alternative fuel
to be considered would be gas, which is Pakistan's main commnrcially
expl,ited hydrocarbon resource (para 1.01). However, the nearest known gas
fields, Nandpur and Panjpir, are located about 200 km from Kot Addu and have
limited reserves.  According  to OGDC, these  fields could only  supply small
units of about 25 KW each.   In addition, because of  recent shortages in gas
production, GOP has decided, for the time  being, to release the gas from the
power  subsector  for   higher  value   uses,  and   has  agreed   under  ESL
(Ln. 2552-PAK) to undertake  a study to  revise the  Gas Development  Plan to
determine the optimal supply and utilization pattern for the next five years.
Therefore, in the absence of gas or crude oil, the operation of the Kot Addu
station with HSD would be the only economic option (para 5.03).
lf Diameter 16 inches, length 864 km.



-18-
3.12    The Karachi-Gujarat pipeline is operated by the Pakistan Arab Company
(PARCO) which delivers the fuel to the oil depot at Mahmood Kot, near
Gujarat.  PSO would deliver the  fuel to the Kot Addu  power station which is
located about 30 km from Mahmood Kot.  PSO has decided to construct a 11 inch
diameter pipeline for the transport of fuel between the two stations. A
feasibility study has demonstrated that the  transport of fuel by pipeline is
the least cost  alernative, particularly  in view  of the  fact that  for at
least ten years after  its commissioning, the station  is expected to operate
at a  high load  factor.  Therefore,  in  order  to  ensure  the  coordinated
development of the Mahmood Kot - Kot Addu fuel pipeline and the proposed
power station, confirmation by GOP that a contract for the_pipeline construc-
tion has been signed, would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(para 6.03(b)).
Ecology
3.13    The  operation of  the station  at full  capacity should  present  no
environmental problems  because the  fuel has  a low  sulphur  content.   The
emission levels are expected to meet the requirements specified in the Bank
guidelines. Owing to the relatively small size of the steam units and the
installation of cooling towers, the water requirement can easily be drawn
from the underground without affecting the aquifer level. Safety regulations
for power stations, to which all operating personnel must conform, will be
strictly enforced, as they are in existing WAPDA stations which all have a
good safety record. The combustion turbines are being equipped with adequate
silencing equipment and the turbine halls of the steam turbo-generator com-
ponents will have a sound pressure level of less than the maximum acceptable
threshold of 90 decibels. Transmission lines will be designed to keep radio
interference within acceptable limits.
Project Risks
3.14    No unusual risks  are foreseen.  Combined cycle  units are a standard
type of installation which require limited civil works and relatively little
assembly on site.   Risk of  damage due  to fire,  explosion, etc.   would be
covered by the respective contractors during the construction phase, and,
after commissioning, by WAPDA, through its insurance policies which are
satisfactory (para 4.22).
Project Monitoring
3.15    WAPDA will  submit quarterly reports  covering the works  of the con-
sultants, physical progress, costs, disbursements and administrative aspects
of the Project. In addition, there will be annual financial and administra-
tive reports.



-19-
IV. FINANCES 1/
Introduction
4.01    WAPDA's  financial affairs  are  governed  by  the  WAPDA  Act  which
requires the utility to generate sufficient revenues from electricity sales
to cover operating costs including depreciation, debt service and achieve a
reasonable return  on  investment.   Under  the  First  WAPDA  Power  Project
(Cr. 213-PAK), WAPDA agreed to achieve a rate of return of 8% on revalued
average net fixed  assets in use.   However, because  of GOP's  reluctance to
revalue assets, this covenant was replaced in FY80 under the Third WAPDA
Power Project  (Cr. 968-PAK) by  an internal  cash generation  covenant which
requires WAPDA to generate annually from  internal sources 40% of the invest-
ment, averaged over the previous two years and the current year without
taking into account the net changes in working capital. WAPDA was able to
comply  with  this  covenant   until  FY85  with   minimal  tariff  increases
(para 4.04), but only because of substantial slippages in its investment
program. It was in the context of these slippages and the accompanying
shortfalls in generating capacity that agreement was reached with WAPDA under
the Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) on a Rs 30 billion Core Invest-
ment Program (CIP) for the period FY86-FY88 (para 4.06).
Accounting Systems and Organization
4.02    Under previous Bank Group operations (Ln. 1208T-PAK and Cr. 968-PAK),
WAPDA engaged Peat, Marwick,  Mitchell and Co. (PMM) of  UK as consultants to
study the financial organization and make recommendations to improve the
utility's financial management, particularly in the areas of accounting
systems and procedures, and organization and staffing. The study, which was
completed in FY82, recommended the introduction of a modern accruals based
accounting system with a code of accounts, the updating of inventory manage-
ment methods and the streamlining of financial reporting procedures. These
recommendations were implemented by PMM in FY83 and FY84 and as a result,
WAPDA's revenue billing and collection, and control over its finances have
improved significantly. In addition, the appointment of General Manager and
Deputy General Manager for Finance has strengthened the overall financial
function and enhanced its role within WAPDA. In order to sustain this momen-
tum, WAPDA, under financing from USAID, has engaged EBASCO Services, American
Electric Power Energy Services and International Training and Education
Company, US firms, is consultants to carry out additional work in the areas
1/ WAPDA maintains complete and separate accounts for the Power Wing. The
financial analysis and discussions in this chapter are confined to the
operations of WAPDA's Power Wing, which for ease of reference is referred
to as WAPDA.



-20-
of Fixed Asset Accounting (para 4.08), Internal Audit (para 4.15) and train-
ing of staff (paras 2.03 and 4.14).
Past Operations
4.03    Financial statements  showing WAPDA's  performance during  the period
FY80-FY85, are presented in Annexes 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, and summarized in
Table 4.1:
Table 4.1: Operating Results FY80-FY85
Year Ending June 30                FY80    FY81    FY 82   FY83    FY84    FY85
(prov)
kWh generated (million)           12,124  13,206  14,768  16,477  18,052  18,780
kWh sold (million)                 8,160   9,068  10,288  11,593  12,762  13,156
System losses (%)                     33       31      30       30      29       27
Avg. rev/kWh sold,
including fuel surcharge            46       51      57       62      63       64
Operating Rev. (Rs million)        3,919   4,777   6,011   7,361   8,214   8,986
Operating Exp. (Rs million)        1,782   2,218   3,306   4,083   5,069   6,350
Operating Income (Rs million)    2,137   2,559   2,705   3,278   3,145   2,636
Net income after int.
and payment to Govt.
(Rs million)                     1,410   1,870   1,835   2,214   1,977   1,445
Self-financing ratio
(3 yr. Avg.) (%)                            56       65      82       70       47
Rate of Return:
Historically valued assets (Z)  15.3    18.3    17.3    17.9    14.6    10.6
Revalued assets (proforma) (X)  10.0    10.4        9.5    10.0      8.2      4.1
WAPDA's  electricity  generation  increased  from   12,124  GWh  in  PY80  to
18,780 GWh in FY85; however, because of the overall shortage of generating
capacity precipitated by resource constraints (para 1.02) and the poor
hydrological conditions, particularly in FY84 and FY85, the rate of growth of
generation declined from an average of about 10.PZ between FY80 and FY83 to
about 6.8%  between FY84  and FY85.   The poor  hydrological conditions  also
necessitated the increased use of thermal capacity and, as a result, its
share in total generation increased from 28% in FY80 to 35% in FY85, while
that of hydro declined correspondingly. As WAPDA was able to reduce system
losses from 33% of gross generation in FY80 to 27% in FY85, by extending and
upgrading the transmission network (paras 1.11 and 1.13) and by streamlining
and  strengthening  billing/collection  operations,   its  electricity  sales
increased at a higher rate of growth than generation, averaging about 12% a
year.
4.04    WAPDA's  tariffs were  increased from  46 paisa/kWh  in  FY80  to  64
paisa/kWh in FY85, representing an average annual increase of about 7Z.



-21-
However, as the  increases in tariffs  were well below  the increases  in the
general price level, WAPDA'S tariffs declined, in real terms, during this
period at an average annual rate of about 13%. As of FY85, WAPDA's average
revenue/kWh was at about 60% of Lthe estimated LRMC of 110 paisa/kWh
(para 1.07). The average rovenuei'kWh it;cludes the fuel adjustment surcharge,
which is  applicable toi all consumer  C(ategories,  except  agricultural  and
domestic consumers who accouttnted ttr abolut 38%r of WAPDA's sales in FY85.  As
a result, WAPDA was able to recover onlv about 62% of fuel costs in that
year.   As  inadequate  upward  adjustmentns  in  tariff;  together  with  the
inability of WAPDA  to fully recov'er  the nigher tuel  costs had  resulted in
substantial stippages in thle investLMenL prugram, GOP and WAPDA agreed under
the Fourth  Power Proiect  (L.n. 2499-PAK)  t) tLake  all  necessary  actions,
including tariff increases to ensure that  WAPI)A'-i core investment program is
implemented (paras 4.06.  4.09 and  4.101).  GOP  has also  initiated  a  load
research and management study wlhich would  provide inputs needed for restruc-
turing electricity  tariffs (paras 1.07  and 5.02).   In addition,  WAPDA  is
assessing the impact of introducing  a fuel charge in the  tariff for the low
voltage consumers.  Current  plans call for  this change to  be introduced in
FY87 (paras 1.07 and 5.02).
4.05    WAPDA's operating revenues increased from Rs 3,919 million in FY80 to
Rs 8,986 milLion in FY85, representing an average annual rate of about 22%.
By contrast, during this same period operating costs increased at a rate
nearly twice that of operating revenues, averaging about 43% annually, mainly
because of higher fuel costs stemming from increased reliance on thermal
capacity (para 4.03).   As a  percentage  of  total  operating  costs,  these
increased from 22% in FY80 to 38% in FY85. Higher fuel costs, which WAPDA
was unable to fully pass on to the consumers, together with inadequate upward
adjustments in tariffs and shortages of generating capacity, eroded the
utility's profitability. This, as measured by the ratio of operating income
to operating revenue, declined from 54% in FY80 to 29% in FY85.
4.06    WAPDA's  self-financing ratios,  calculated in  accordance  with  the
formula agreed under the Third WAPDA Power Project, amounted to 56% in FY81,
65% in FY82, 82% in FY83, 70% in FY84 and 47% in FY85. As noted (paras 4.01
and 4.04), these relatively high self-financing ratios were achieved mainly
because of slippages in WAPDA's investment program precipitated by resource
constraints stemming from inadequate tariff increases and reductions in
annual budgetary allocations. These slippages and the supply constraints
ensuing therefrom induced GOP and WAPDA to agree, under the Fourth WAPDA
Power  Project   (Ln. 2499-PAK),  on   a  Rs 30   billion   Core   Investment
Program (CIP) for the  period FY86-FY88 (para 1.04).   Of this, about  60% is
earmarked for the expansion of generation capacity. In order to ensure the
implementation of the CIP for FY86, WAPDA's tariffs were increased by 10% for
all categories of consumers effective July 1, 1985 (para 1.07) and required
budgetary allocations were made.   GOP and WAPDA have  also agreed under this
project to adopt, starting FY89, a forward looking formula for calculating
internal cash generation which would require WAPDA to generate annually from



-22-
internal sources 40% of its investment averaged over the previous, current
and succeeding years, after taking into account the changes in working capi-
tal.
4.07    During the  period FY80-FY83,  WAPDA's revenues  and net  income kept
pace with increases in its asset base, thereby enabling the utility to
achieve an average rate of return of 17% on historically valued assets and
10% on  revalued assets.   In FY84  and FY85,  however, the  rate  of  return
declined to 14.6% and 10.6% on historically valued assets and 8.2% and 4.1%
on revalued assets. This decline in rates of return is attributable to:
(a) the commissioning of large assets during those two years, particularly
hydro capacity; and (b) the erosion of WAPDA's profitability (para 4.05).
Moreover, as some of WAPDA's assets were underutilized during FY84 and FY85,
particularly hydro units and the associated transmission lines, WAPDA's
average net fixed assets in use are overstated relative to the revenue gener-
ated. The rates of return -n FY84 and FY85, therefore, should be viewed as
understated return. WAPDA's financial projections for the period FY86-FY93,
in fact, show that the rates of return on revalued assets is expected to
improve, but is unlikely to exceed 8% because capacity shortages are forecast
to continue  into the  mid-1990s (paras 2.04  and 5.02).   This implies  that
increases in operating revenues will continue to increase Gver the foresee-
able at a slower pace than the increases in assets.
Present Financial Position
4.08    Balance sheets  showing WAPDA's financial  position are  presented in
Annex 4.1. The book value of fixed assets is shown at historical cost, as
required by GOP. As a large proportion of WAPDA's electricity supply
facilities (generating plant, and transmission and distribution networks)
were commissioned during the last few years, its gross fixed assets in serv-
ice increased between FY80 and FY85 by about 115%, 60% of which were financed
from WAPDA's internal sources and 40% from borrowings. WAPDA is currently in
the process of establishing a system that will classify fixed assets by
category and form the basis for the formulation of appropriate depreciation
schedules (para 4.02). This work is expected to be completed by June 30,
1986. Until such time, an average rate of depreciation of about 3.5% is
being applied, which is considered adequate by the Bank. WAPDA's capitaliza-
tion as of June 30, 1985 is summarized in Table 4.2:



-23-
Table 4.2: WAPDA's Capitalization as of June 30, 1985
US$ Million
Equity                              Rs Million           Equivalent          X
Government investment                 2,409                   151              6
Government equity
contribution                        2,777                   173              7
Capital contributions                 2,175                   136              6
Retained earnings                    11,988                   749             31
Total                              19,349                 1,209             50
Long-term Debt                       18,993                 1,187             50
TOTAL CAPITAL                      38,342                 2,396            100
The Government's investment of Rs 2,409 million includes initial contribution
of Rs 461 million to WAPDA at the time of its formation, capital contribu-
tions of Rs 471 million for the Warsak and Mangla projects and Rs 1,386
millinn for Tarbela. At the end of FY85, WAPDA's capitalization position was
strong with a debt/equity ratio of 50/50 compared to a ratio of 61/39 at the
end of FY79. This increase in equity is due mainly from improved earnings;
retained earnings amounted to 62% of total equity at the end of FY85, com-
pared to only 26% at the end of FY79. In addition to a strong capitalization
position, both the ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 3.4 and
the coverage of debt service by gross internal cash generation of 1.69 are
satisfactory.
Investment Program and Financing Plan
4.09    WAPDA's development program  for the period  FY85-FY94, together with
the annual phasing of expenditures for ongoing and new projects and the
sources of foreign exchange presently identified, is presented in Annex 4.5
and summarized in Table 4.3:
Table 4.3: Capital Investment Program
Rs million    US$ million       %      Foreign Exch.(%)
Generation               101,556            6,347        64             44
Transmission              31,078            1,942        20             36
Distribution              26,081            1,630        16             10
Other                          44               3         -             45
Total                  158,759           9,922        100             38



-24-
Of the total investment program, about 64% is earmarked for the expansion of
generating capacity, 20% for the extension and reinforcement of the transmis-
sion system and 16% for the distribution system. As substantial investments
have already been made in the development of transmission (paras 1.11 and
1.13) and distribution facilities (para 2.11), and because slippages were
most acute in the commissioning of new generating capacity, a relatively
larger share of the resources are earmarked for their expansion. The Bank
has reviewed the investment plan for its content, size and allocation, and
finds it satisfactory. In order to ensure that WAPDA's system continues to
develop along the least cost path, GOP and WAPDA agreed under the Fifth WAPDA
Power Project (Cr. 2556-PAK) to an annual investment review with the Bank
which would result in a rolling three year CIP, starting with the core
program for FY86-FY88 (para 4.06). AccordingLy, GOP and WAPDA agreed to a
CIP of Rs 39 billion for FY87, FY88 and FY89, with annual allocation of
Rs 10,751 million for FY87, Rs 11,535 million for FY88 and Rs 16,669 million
for FY89 (para 6.01(a)) and to invest over the three year period Rs 21,749
million in generation, Rs 10,731 million in transmission and Rs 6,375 million
in distribution facilities (para 6.01(b)).
4.10    The purpose  of the  CIP is  to identify  high priority  projects and
ensure that  resources are  made available  for  their  implementation.   The
sources of financing for the CIP covering the period FY87-FY89 are summarized
in Table 4.4:
Table 4.4: Financing Requirements and Sources During FY87-FY89
Rs million         US$ million         x
Requirements
Capital Investment                     38,955               2,435            91
Working Capital Increase                3,827                  239            9
Total Requirements                   41,782               2,674          100
Sources
Gross Internal Sources                 30,025                1,876
Less: Debt Service and
Payment to Government                15,560                 972
Net Internal Cash Generation           14,465                  904           34
Borrowings
GOP Loans                            11,290                  706          26
Foreign Loans                        15,782                 9&6           37
Proposed Loan                         1,245                  78            3
Total Borrowings                     28,317               1,770           66
Total Sources                          41,782               2,674           100



-25-
During the period PY87-FY89, WAPDA's total requirement of funds would amount
to Rs 41,782 million (US$2,674 million); Rs 38,955 million (US$2,435 million)
for the CIP and Rs 3,827 million (US$239 million) for working capital
increase. Of the total funds required, Rs 14,465 million (US$904 million) or
about 342 would be financed by WAPDA from internal sources and the balance of
Rs 28,317 million (US$1,770 million) would be financed through borrowings.
GO! loans, which would be made to WAPDA by way of Annual Development Program
(ADP) allocations, would amount to Rs 11,290 million (US$706 million) and
most of it would be in Rupees. Foreign loans, including the disbursements
under the proposed Project amounting to Rs 17,027 million (US$1,064 million),
would finance about 40% of the total requirements. COP and WAPDA agreed to
take all necessary actions, including tariff increases and ADP allocation, in
order to ensure that the resources needed to implement the CIP for FY87-FY89
are made available. (para 6.01(c)).
Future Finances
4.11    Forecast income statements, sources  and applications of funds state-
ments and balance sheets for FY86-FY93 are shown in Annexes 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3.
A summary of forecast operating results for this eight-year period is
presented below:
Table 4.5: Forecast Operating Results
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
kWh generated (million)           21,227 23,510 26,174 28,769 30,628 33,329 35,727 37,171
kWh sold (million)                15,708 17,973 20,154 22,152 23,584 25,663 27,510 28,622
Average revenue per kWh
sold (paisa)l/                     74    86   108   136   150   164   180   204
Operating revenue (Rs million)    11,919 15,700 21,950 30,361 35,602 42,383 49,979 58,702
operating expense (Rs million)     8,294 11,150 15,791 20,241 23,654 28,272 34,063 41,018
Net operating income (Rs million)  3,625  4,490 6,059 9,720 11,308 14,011 15,416 :6,984
Self-financing ratio
(Three-year average) (X)           48    40    40    40    40    40    40    40
Rate of return
Historically valued assets (X)    12.2  12.7  14.3  19.3  18.7  18.2  17.0  16.0
Proforma revalued assets (Z)       5.1   5.2   6.1   9.0   8.8   9.4   9.0   8.8
Debt/equity ratio                  53/47  57/43 59/41  59/41 60/40  59/41  60/40 59/41
Debt service coverage                1.8   1.6   1.6   2.0   1.9   1.9   1.8   1.7
1/ Including fuel surcharge.



-26-
WAPDA's financial projections  are based on  increases in  electricity gener-
ation and tariffs, and a reduction in system losses. Electricity generation
is forecast to increase at an average annual rate of 8.9% and electricity
sales by 9.6%, reflecting a sustained decrease in system losses. In order
for WAPDA to continue to self-finance not less than 40% of its capital
investment program to meet the financial performance covenant, forecasts
through FY93 show that it would need to increase tariffs at an average annual
rate of about 15% in nominal terms, amounting to about 8% in real terms,
assuming a  forecast average  annual inflation  rate of  7%.   The  financial
forecasts for FY87, in particular, show that a 11% increase in average tariff
effective July 1, 1986. is needed to satisfy the 40% self-generation covenant
for FY87. In order to ensure that adequate resources are available for the
implementation of the Rs 10,751 million Core Investment Plan for FY87, GO?
and WAPDA agreed that the announcement of a tariff increase which wouli
enable WAPDA to finance at least 40% of its capital investment requirements
for FY87 from internal sources, computed in accordance with the internal cash
eneration  formula   drawn  up   under  the   Third  WAPDA   Power   Project
(Cr. 968-PAK), would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 6.03(c)).
4.12    Forecast balance  sheets (Annex  4.3) show  that WAPDA's  gross fixed
assets are expected to increase from Rs 35,019 million in FY85 to Rs 149,731
million at the end of FY93. About 40% of the increase would be financed from
WAPDA's internal sources and 60% from borrowings. As a result, equity is
expected to increase by three and one-half times, from Rs 19,349 million in
FY85 to Rs 67,671 million in FY93, 85% of this increase attributable to
retained earnings.   Long-term debt  is forecast  to increase  fivefold, from
Rs 18,992 million to Rs 99,095 million, resulting in a debt/equity ratio in
FY93 of 59/41, which is reasonable for an electric utility. The coverage of
debt service by gross internal cash generation would be satisfactory during
this period as would the ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
Nevertheless, in order to ensure that WAPDA's debt service coverage by gross
internal cash generation continues to be satisfactory, the debt limitation
covenant under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) is repeated
under the project, which provides that WAPDA would consult the Bank should it
seek to incur new debt that would result in WAPDA's gross internal cash
generation before debt service and payment to GOP falling below 1.5 times the
debt service requirement (para 6.02(b)).
Financial and Commercial Operations
4.13    WAPDA's  distribution department  is one  of the  largest  commercial
undertakings in Pakistan with annual sales in FY85 of 14 GWh to over 4.5
million consumers, and billing and collections amounting to some Rs 750
million each month.   This magnitude of  operation requires  efficient finan-
cial/commercial systems and capable staff to operate them. WAPDA, however,
has been unable to recruit qualified mid- to high-level accounting staff
because its current rules stipulate that such positions be filled by promot-
ing individuals from within WAPDA. In order to address this constraint, new



-27-
WAPDA Accounting Service Rules have now been drafted which would permit the
recruitment of mid- to high-level accounting staff from outside WAPDA, and a
committee is reviewing them before presentation to the Authority for
approval. Once these rules are approved, WAPDA will be able to recruit
qualified financial staff to fill required positions at both headquarters and
the eight AEBs where the shortage of qualified staff is particularly acute.
WAPDA plans to have these rules approved and put into effect, beginning
July 1, 1986.
4.14    WAPDA continues  to make progress  in streamlining  and strengthening
its financial/commercial operations with substantial support from USAID under
its Power Distribution Project (paras 2.11 and 4.02) which includes a large
training component.   This project  is timely  in  that  it  complements  the
institution-building work carried out by WAPDA under Bank-financed projects
(paras 1.10 and 4.02). WAPDA, USAID and the Bank are closely coordinating
their institution  building  activities.   Annex 4.6  summarizes  work  being
carried out under the Power Distribution Project in the financial/commercial
areas.
Internal Audit
4.15    A basic function of an internal audit unit is, inter alia, to provide
senior management with information relating to the performance of the
entity's  systems.   In  addition,  an  effective  internal  audit  unit  can
facilitate the performance of the external audit, with the latter relying
heavily on the former (para 4.20). WAPDA has a large Internal Audit Depart-
ment, whose systems and procedures are outdated and its responsibilities have
not been enhanced to suit the utility's recent growth in size and complexity.
In recognition of this, as agreed under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project
(Ln 2466-PAK), WAPDA has engaged consultants (EBASCO Services, American
Electric Power Energy Services and International Training and Education
Company, US firms) under financing from USAID, to develop a modern internal
auditing system. Bank has reviewed the qualifications, experience, and the
terms of  reference of  the consultants  and finds  them  satisfactory.   The
consultants have begun their work and are expected to complete it by March
1988.
External Audit
4.16    The WAPDA Act stipulates that the Auditor General of Pakistan (AG) is
responsible for auditing WAPDA's accounts.   He discharges his responsibility
through the Director General, WAPDA Audit, who is assigned together with some
400 staff to WAPDA on a permanent basis. Under an earlier IDA Credit, it was
agreed to accept the AG as the independent auditor until WAPDA's accounting
system was strengthened sufficiently to permit a judgement as to the quality
of the AG's audit. It was also recognized that an effective internal audit
system, which is pres-itly lacking, is required to support the external
audit. The AG, with he Dutch assistance, is making a significant effort to



-28-
strengthen the  audit ft!nction.   These improvements,  together with  WAPDA's
efforts to strengthen ts accounting procedures and to institute an effective
internal audit function, will  go a long way  in facilitating the  AG in per-
forming the externaL audit (para 4.15). Present arrangements are that the
Preliminary Audit Observations, together with the balance sheet, income
statement and any other relevant statements covering the performance of
WAPDA, are accepted for the time being as satisfying the Bank's audit
requirements. The observations are normally issuad within six months of the
close of the fiscal year. Thc existing audit arrangements continue until the
new internal audit system is in place and the new accounting system is fully
implemented and operational, so that an informed judgment can be made on the
quality of the  AG's audit thrcarr.   The Bank has  reserved the  right to
monitor the present audit arrangements and, it necessary, to request an audit
consistent with  Bank  guidelines.   Under  the  Fifth  WAPDA  Power  Project
(Ln. 2556-PAK), it was agreed thaL the Bank's standard audit covenant would
be included in the loan documents to enable the Bank to retain the right of
exercising the option of requesting an audit consistent with its guidelines,
and that the interim arrangement governing WAPDA audits, requiring WAPDA to
submit its annual accounts, together with Preliminary Audit Observations
within six months of the end of the fiscal year, is outlined in the Minutes
of Negotiations. This agreement is renewed under the Project (para 6.02(c)).
Government Arrears
4.17    Under the Fourth  WAPDA Project (Ln. 2499-PAK), GOP  agreed to ensure
all arrears owed to WAPDA by Government departments and agencies as of
June 30, 1985,  by not  later  than  December 31,  1985.   Despite  concerted
efforts, GOP has not been able to comply with this covenant. GOP and WAPDA
have informed the Bank that the concerned departments are withholding payment
of the entire bill because of disputes in some portion of the bills. The
Bank has also been informed that since approximately 20% of the amount billed
is under dispute, GOP has directed all departments and agencies in arrears to
pay all uncontested arrears (approximately 80% of the outstandings) to WAPDA
by March 31, 1986. Furthermore, the Finance Ministry has authorized deduc-
tion of appropriate amounts at the budgetary source, if the uncontested
arrears are not paid by that date in order to clear arrears to within three
months of the receipt of bills by the beginning of FY87. It is therefore
expected that arrears owed by WAPDA by Government departments and agencies
which, as of December 31, 1985, amounted to Rs 612 million will be substan-
tially reduced. However, in order to ensure that WAPDA's financial position
is not adversely affected, substantial reduction in arrears owed to WAPDA by
Government departments  and agencies,  is a  condition of  loan effectiveness
(para 6.03Td)). Under the Fourth WAPDA Project (Ln. 2499-PAK), GOP had also
agreed that all future electricity bills would be paid by all government
agencies and departments within three months after the receipt of the bill.
This covenant has been repeated under the Project.



-29-
Insurance
4.18    Prior to 1977, WAPDA placed its insurance with the National Insurance
Corporation of Pakistan, a Government insurance agency. Due to difficulties
in settling its claims with this agency, WAPDA elected to insure its assets
under a self-insurance scheme and, with the assistance of actuariat consult-
ants,  established  a  self-insurance  program  covering  substations,  power
houses, machinery and workshops against loss from fire and machinery break-
down. Based on studies carried out by WAPDA and its actuarial consultants,
an amount of Rs 15.3 million is allocated annually to the insurance fund.
The insurance fund, amounting to Rs 73.2 million as of June 30, 1985, is
administered independently by a Board of Management with assistance from its
actuarial consultants. The Bank has reviewed these insurance arrangements
and found them acceptable.



-30-
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Forecast of Electricity Sales of WAPDA
5.01    WAPDA's  actual  and  projected  electricity  sales  for  the  period
FY76-FY95 are presented in Annex 5.1 and summarized in Table 5.1 below. As
shown,
Table 5.1: Historical Development and Forecast of Electricity Sales
by WAPDA between FY76 and FY95
Average AnnuaL                Average Annual
Growth Rate                   Projected Growth
FY76 - PY85 (X)               Rate FY86 - FY95 (X)
Energy Sold              11.1                               9.6
Residential              21.4                              12.0
Commercial               15.2                               9.0
In'uiLrial                9.4                               9.0
Agriculture               8.0                               6.0
electricity consumption increased between FY76 and FY85 at an average annual
rate of about 11%. This relatively high rate of growth is attributable to:
(a) the  unprecedented  increase  in  the   demand  for  electricity  by  the
industrial sector, particularly the newly developed electricity intensive
industries; (b) the increased worker's remittances from the Gulf Countries
which maintained a buoyant demand for electricity by the household and com-
mercial sectors; and (c) maintenance of tariff increases at levels substan-
tially below the increases in the general price level which further stimu-
lated the demand for electricity.
5.02    WAPDA's forecast  for the period  FY86-FY95 show that  the historical
pattern of electricity consumption is not expected to continue over the next
decade, mainly because of the shortage of generating capacity precipitated by
the slippages in the implementation of its investment program (para 4.06).
In order to minimize these shortages which started to emerge in 1982 and are
expected to continue into the mid 1990s, GOP, in keeping with its comprehen-
sive development strategy, intends to take all necessary measures including
tariff increases to ensure that the core investment program is implemented.
The tariff increases required between FY86 and FY93 to enable WAPDA to
finance 40% of its core program from internal sources would amount in real
terms to  about 8%  annually (paras 1.07  and 4.11).   In addition,  the load
research and management study initiated with the assistance of consultants
(EBASCO, a US firm) under USAID financing would form the basis for restruc-
turing electricity tariffs, including the introduction of fuel surcharge in



-31-
the tariff for sales to low  voltage consumers (para 1.07).  These changes in
the structure and level of tariffs together with the initiation of the con-
servation program agreed to under ESL (Ln 2552-PAK), involving the audit and
rehabilitation of the major energy consuming industries which incLude the
large electricity consumers, e.g. steel, cement, glass, etc., are expected to
restrain the growth of demand by inducing consumers to use electricity more
rationally.
5.03    In view ot  the proposed measure,  the rate of  growth of electricity
consumption is forecast to drop from 11.1% in FY8O-FY8S to 9.6% in FY86-FY95.
Among consumer categories, the household and commercial sectors are expected
to show the largest drop, primarily because of the planned adjustments in the
structure and level of  tariffs (paras 1.03 and 5.02).   The growth of demand
by the  industrial sector,  by contrast,  is  expected  to  remain  virtually
unchanged despite the conservation measures and the planned investments in
industrial rehabilitation, mainly because its increased reliance over the
past few years on captive plants to avoid the disruption caused by the
shortage of power. Consequently, although the higher tariffs and conserva-
tion measures would reduce the power consumption per unit of output, the
increased dependence on public supply for power brought about by the
accelerated development of the subsector would leave the growth of demand for
electricity at the level observed for FY76-FY85. As for the agriculture
sector, the load research and management study would provide the inputs
needed to restructure tariffs for the low voltage consumers, including
agriculture uses. This together with the projected increases in the tariff
is expected to arrest the growth of demand for electricity in the agricul-
ture sector, reducing the rate from 6% for FY76-FY85 to 8% for FY86-FY95.
B. Least Cost Alternative
5.04    The conversion of  combustion turbines at Kot  Addu to combined cycle
operation was introduced in the planning model (WASP III) used by WAPDA as
one of the options  for the future  expansion of generation.   The results of
the optimization showed this option to be part of the least cost development
program for the period (1986-1995), as  the conversion of combustion turbines
to combined cycle operation increases their efficiency of the Kot Addu
plants, generating an additional 1,051 GWh of electricity annually without a
corresponding increase in fuel consumption. The Bank reviewed the assump-
tions used in the optimization and the results and found them satisfactory.
C. Return on Investment
5.05    The economic  rate of return  on the  Project is  15.2% based  on the
measurable costs  and  benefits.   The  measurable  costs  include:   (a) the
investment in the combined cycle equipment and the pipeline connecting the
pipeline to the power station at Kot Addu; (b) operation and maintenance cost
are assumed at  about 5% of  the capital cost  of the equipment;  and (c) the
average  incremental  cost   for  transmission  and   distribution  of  about



-32-
Rs 0.04/kWh. The costs associated with the combustion turbines currently
being built at Kot Addu are considered sunk and were not included in calcula-
tion. The measurable benefits include the revenues associated with the
incremental sales attributable to the extra generation that would be provided
reflecting the fact that the Project was designed to take advantage of
investment decision already made by generating extra power using the same
fuel as was otherwise planned. Details relating to the assumptions and
calculations are presented in Annex 5.2.



-33-
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, GOP and WAPDA agreed to:
(a)  A Rs 39 billion  Core Investment program for FYs  87, 88 and 89, with
annual allocation of Rs 10,751 million for PY87, Rs 11,535 million
for FY88 and Rs 16,669 million for FY89 (para 4.09);
(b)  Invest Rs 21,749 million in  Generation Facilities, Rs 10,731 million
in Transmission and Rs 6,475 million in Distribution over the three
year period, FY87 to FY89 (para 4.09); and
(c)  Take all necessary actions, including tariff increases, to ensure the
implementation  of  the  Core  Investment   PLan  for  FY87  to  FY89
(para 4.10).
6.02    During negotiations, WAPDA agreed to:
(a)  Recruit consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
to undertake a feasibility study and detailed engineering for a power
station complex at Jamshoro and to prepare bidding documents for such
complex; and that the work would be completed and reviewed, in con-
sultation with the Bank, by no later than March 31, 1987 (para 2.07);
(b)  Consult the Bank - should it seek to incur new debt that would result
in WAPDA's internal cash generation before debt service and payment
to  GOP  falling  below  1.5   times  the  debt  service  requirement
(para 4.12); and
(c)  Include the Bank's  standard audit covenant in  the Loan Documents to
enable the Bank to retain the right of exercising the option of
requesting an audit consistent with its guidelines, and that the
interim arrangements governing WAPDA audits would be outlined in the
Minutes of Negotiations (para 4.16).
6.03    The following will be the conditions of effectiveness of the loan:
(a)  Approval by ECNEC  of the PC-1  document with respect  to the Project
(para 3.08);
(b)  Confirmation by COP  that a contract for  the Mahmood Kot  - Kot Addu
pipeline construction has been signed (para 3.12);
(c)  Announcement of a tariff increase effective July 1, 1986, which would
enable WAPDA to internally generate at least 40X of its capital
investment requirements for FY87, the formula for computing the



-34-
internal cash generation being the one agreed to under the Third
WAPDA Power Project (Cr. 968-PAK) (para 4.11); and
(d) Substantial reduction in arrears owed to WAPDA by Government depart-
ments and agencies (para 4.17).
6.04    With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of
US$90.0 million.



1o0  ADDU CUSINED CYCLE PENIEN PROJECT
ttrat-tv for the Develogm_t of the Eaeri  Sector
18038#                                             ACTIONS ?A=EN                              ACTION  TO     TAKEN
DEVELopUnT AND IrUSTnT
ner p Develoe _ t
l.  Jado: GOPrs long-term plan               GOP comiseioned Montreal Engineeriag in             In ordet to ensure thct tbe hydro sitec
calls for the accelerated               1980, nuder financing from CIDA, to evaluate         at  talabsgb,  asbe  ad  eDau are co  ic-
development of the country's            bydro sites larger than 200 MR  in sise on the    uioned and brought on str-o  at tbo optimal
bydropower potential; bowever,          Indus River and rank tbhs  in order of economic   time, *inimal coat and in full integration
the larger sites bave as yet            merit for development. A total of 26 site            with the program for thermal generation,
to be adequately evaluated in           were inventoried excluding Kalabagb and Nseba    GOP has agreed witb the Sank under the
order to ensure that these are          wbich are ranked first and second in priority    propoged loan to recruit cosultants by
brought on stres  at the optimal        of development.  The study concluded that only   December 31, 1986 to initiate a detailed
tine,  minimal cost aod in full         11 of the sites inventoried could be exploited   site investigation, engineeting aod cost
integraton with the progrm for          economically, with the site at Dau receiving    estimates for Samba. COP would also initiate
tbermal generation.                     the bighest ranking.  The results of this            in due coure similar wrk for Damc.
study were reviewed witb the Bank.
GOP has completed the detailed engineering for
the site at Kalabagh and preparations are under-
way for initiating the implementation of this
scheme during the Seventb tPan.
A feasibility study bas also been completed for
Basba witb the assistance of consultants financed
by CIDA.
2.  8vdrocarbons:  Exploration and           GOP's active involvement over the post two years In order to furtber expand tbe exploration and
development activity is inadequate    has resulted in a record number (46) of explo-   development proggow for bydroc.rbons, GOP bas
to achieve GOP's objective of mini-   ratory and development wells being spudded or    outlined a nationul policy which delioeates
mizing the anticipated shortfalls in  drilled and in the discovery of four noew oil          the scope of the exploration and development
the supply of hydrocarbons. particu-  and two new gas fields.                                progrem to be implemented by OCDC over the
larly gas,  and reducing the country's                                                       next tbree years ("86-Tss) and idnotifios the
dependence on imported energy.          Seisnic surveys undertaken in the offshore           approach to be followed in attracting private
areas, witb the assistance of Norway, bave          sector participants# botb foreign and local.
identified promising structures for drilling        GOP has agreed under the proposed loan to             5
and further evaluation.                             implement the core investmant progTro for
OGDC involving the following:  the development        o
wegotiations have been completed for offshore    of Toot, Pirkob, Dakhdi and Tendo Alan; Meller .
drilling of oil-bearing structures located in    projects such a*  *hod  *ad Sari/ilndi in
the Indus basin.                                    strongly gSa proveo areas; non-opereting interect



ACTIONS TAIER                             ACTIOS  O U3 
a sinority partner in ongoing and oev joint
GOP boa enabled OCDC to isprove its performace  ventures; and * modet-asisd exploration prosrom
by allowiog it to retain a larger share of its   which gives priority to potentially high yielding
energy, but because of resource and iuple-          prospects in the immediste vicinity of the Tsado
sentation constraints the Corporation is            Alm discove*y and important pas prospects sucb
unlikely to achieve the targets  et in the          as Loti.  The core investment progra includes
Sixth fu.                                           exploration and development investments wbieh are
justified from Pakista o   viewpoint and  re
GOP's efforts have also reoslted in doubling        potenti<lly *ttractive to private ivestorS, but
the domestic output of oil.                         which either cnooot, or should not be uadertaken
solely by CONC to avoid diverting its resourees
GOP hbo  concluded  grements on producer prices  from its own core activities or wndly risking
for gas from existing fields at  ari and Sui        public resources.  It is for tbese investmeDts
and consequently satisfactory progress is being  that renewed effort sould be made to mobilige
ade in developing this resource from these          private sector capital to Suppleuent GCOC  effort
fields.                                             to attract private exploratioo investment in open
*reas  ad consider  far-rinc to CGDC average on
appropriate terws.  tn particulsr, tbh  overoeent
plaos to uadertake new efforts to see joiot
veoture partners, eSpeciatly iO  ar  where gas
discoveries bave already been smde, once the nO
pas producer prico formul is announced.
3.  Coal:  Estimates of the quantity         The Ceological Survey of Pokistan (GSP) and the  in order to promote the acelterated devel5mpent
and quality of the reserves are         U.S. Geological Survey, under financing from        of coal, GOP bas agree witb the  ank under the
not based oo a systeutic evalua-        USAID, have sined an agreueout to fornulate a   proposed loan, to initiate a two-phased program.
tion of the resource.                   comprehensive coal exploration strategy which    The first would involve * bighly focused Study
would identify priorities for exploration,          to be initiated by 8epte ber 30, 1985 ad completed
drilling and geophysical analysis.  It involves  by Septmber 30, 1986, to identify the main opera-
the assessment of the reserves at Lakhra and        tional constraints being experienced aNd outline a
Sonda-Thatta in 1985 and 1986, and the Salt         plan of action for addressing thm.  The second phase,
Range and  iakerwal reserves in 1987 and 1988.    would involve the implenetation of the plan of action
which will be initiated by becember 31, 1916.
VAPDA is currently implesenting a progrn, under
Bank financing, aimed at firming up the extent of                                                              'a
the reserves at Dukki to eventually prepare a                                                                   4.
feasibility study for mining the coal for power
generation.                                                                                                     0.
GOP is al o assessing, under US UD f inancing, 
the potential for stimulating increased private
sector investment in cool production using the
Lakhre as a model. Should the results prove
favorable, GOP would consider applying the
sce model to othet promising artes.



I88U U                                            ACTIONS TAKENW                            ACTIONS TO It !*JJ
Enermy Investmeotca
4.  Core Investments:  Absence of           GOP prepared a sector study in 1982, with           The studies to be initiated nader the proposed
program for the integration of          the assistance of consultants, which provided    E8L together witb the strengtheiLg of energy
subsectoral investents has              the basis for outlining the targets for the        planning capabilities, whicb is being financed by
resulted in the initiation of a         energy component of the Sixth Plan.  This          USAID, would provide the inputs needed to identify
larger number of projects tban          study, however. did not critically evaluate        the bigb priority projects and promote the integrasted
could be implemented with the           the resource requirement of the investment         development of the subsectors.  In the ioterim, GOP
available resources.                    program for energy.                                has outlined a core investment program of bigh priority
projects to be initiated or completed doring the period
1Y86-ITSS. It i. designed to mioimise the sbortfalls
energy during this period sad ensure tbht slippaes
tbat are expected to occur do not become an impediment
to the implementation of the Seventh plan.  The Bank has
reviewed the projects included in the core investamnt
program, their financial requirements and the sources
of fiaoncing and has found tbese to be generally satio-
factory. In order to ensure the timely implementetion
of the core investment program, GOP ha agreed with the
boak under the proposed loan to review in 4etail the
performaoce of the progrtm io preceding year acd the
sources for financing it in the next year on an annual
basis beginning pril 1986.
5.  Power Subsectoer   Rationalize the      GOP has developed, under financing from MUDP        IP order to formulato a more robust Wational Least Cost
investments in the power subsector    with the bank as the executing agency, an            Plan, GOP has a8reed with the lank under the proposed
to seet future demand at least cost.  ioteris least-cost plan for the power sub-            loan to incorporate the recently eomplied information on
ector based on available data.  It formed          the operation of the power subsector, hydrology sad pattern
the basis for the identification of projects       of electricity consomption in the intarim leest eost pla.
included in the core investmnt program for         This national lest cost plas will be completed and rewiewed
ns86-7183.                                         with the Dank by December 31, 1986.
VAPDA, with the asaistasce of consultants          VAPPA bh  agred with the  ank under the Fifth Power Froject
financed by USAID, is curreontly preparing a       to recruit consultants, by no later than Beptember 30, 1985,
comprehensive national rural electrification       on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Seek, to undertake
maeter plan wbich is expected to be completed    a study for the implementation of a system for the collection,
by March 1985.  The lank would review its          storage and retrieval of dote on the power system; the study
will be completed and reviewed in consultation with the lank*
by no later tban December 31. 1986.
6.  Petrleum products, Subsector:                                                               GOP bas agreed witb the Dank under the proposed loan to
Constraints in tbe supply and                                                               initiate by Devember 1, 1965 and complete by Marcb 31.
delivery of petroleo. products                                                             1986 a study for the rationlisation of the infrastructure           w
are becoming a aajor impediment                                                             for the supply and delivery of petroleo  products.
to the developmet of the energy
ector.



ISSuE                                               ACTIONS SDgL                               ACtION  TO an ThUD
nICING AJD D SAUD NANACUIZUT
PricinR
7.  GSa  Consuegr Price:  The consumer        In 1981, GOP agreed with the Bank under SAL I,   GOP baa reaffirsed its co  itment to the Bank undor
price of sas is inadequate to            to raise the consumer price of gas to two-           the proposed loan to raise the price of gae to
restrain the growth of demand.           tbirds the border price of fuel oil by m8.           achieve the m8  target.  Sbereafter. GOP  ill
Since then its price has been increased in           review witb the lank the general strategy and otber
rupee nominal terms by 1251, whicb raised the    neasures for inducing consumers to use this scarce
average domestic price of gas in December 1984   resource more rationally and mobilize resources for
to 39S of fuel oil parity.                           the development of the subsector.
8.  Gas Producer Prices:  GOP's gas           In 1981, COP adopted a new cost plus formula         To stimulate the interest of tbe private sector, GOP
producer pricing formula is              for setting producer prices to stimulate the         has outlined new fremework for gas producer prices.
unacceptable to private                  interest of foreign and local firfs in accel-    Its key elements are:  (a) the price paid to the
investors.                               erating exploration and development activity         producer for pipeline quality gas will equal 662 of
in Pakistan.  This formula, bowever, has not         the international price of fuel oil at main
elicited the response boped for from the             consumption centers, adjusted for the transport cost
private sector.                                      of 8as from  the field to main consumption centers,
less a percentage-discountr;  b) the magnitude of the
discount is to be negotiated and agreed in Conces-
sion Agreements before commencing exploraton. Tbe
discount will very frem area to area and will take
into account, aemong otber tbings, the geological risk
and location of the coneession, anticipated exPlora-
tion and developmeet eoats, oil market cbnditionm
and cost of production. It is cors intention to
negotiate discounts with tbe besic objective of
stimulating accelerated exploration by private
investors; and (c) the mew price formula will apply to
all mon-associated gam from concessions siged on or
after September 30, 1965. COP bas agreed witb tbe Rank
under the porpoeed loss to make an announement of the
new policy by June 1985, #Ad widely publicize it witbin
oil industry circts. amP iutends to keep the operation
of this formula under rewiew.
9.  Slectricitv Price.:  WAPDA'c efforts  COP ha agreed witb the Sank under the Fourth    The introduction of a tariff increae, effective
to mobilize resources througb            MAPS Power Project, wbicb was presested to           July 1, 198S6. wichb  ill enable WAMr  to fi4snae
tariffe bhve fallen abort of the         the Board on March 7, 1985, to link future           at Ieast 401 of it# investment progrem  in 786 from
targets set by GOP.                      increases in tariffs to the three year core          ioternally-generated funds, would be a condition of               I
investment program met at ts 30 billion, in          effewtiveneas of the proposed 381 and MAPSA V.
accordance with formula outlined in the Loan
A8raee et for VAPDA III ptJo3ect. COP bee also 
Agreed uetor WMPA     I to bectefo Otb  hda  als
tariffs to ensure that at least 402 of the
expenditures called for under the core invest-



IssuEs                                            ACTIO9S TAK                              AC-Ties TO S  zoo
sent program are financed from WAPDA's internal
sources.
10. Coal PricinrA:  Structural imbalances                                                      GOP has agreed with the  Sak under tbe propsed loon
between sources of supply and location                                                    to allow the use of ioported cool for power genera-
of consumers and bottlenecks in real                                                      tion around Kraechi, provided that *wcb imports are
transport necessitate transportation                                                      deemed economic.  A prefeasibility study, under
of coal by trucks, vtich raises the                                                       financing frem  the Bank and CIDA is currently
price of coal to final consumers                                                          underway for coal handlin.
substantially.
GOP, bae agreed with the bank under the propose loan
to initiate a study that would: (a) outline a strategy
for corporate restructuring ad technical improvements
to promote the more efficient operation of mines in the
public sector; an (b) provide a basis for reviewing the
role of the public sector in coal aining.
VAPIA hcs agreed with the Sak under the proposed Fifth
Power Project to recruit consultants, no later tban
June 30. 1986 on terus and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, to undertake a feasibility study and detailed
engineering for a power generating ceaplex at Karachi,
based mainly on imported coal, and prepare the bidding
documents for the first phase of this complex; the
work would be completed and reviemed witb the Sank
by no later than December 31, 1967.
11. Dea4nd _anasement:  Despite short-    GOP. under lank financing is currently imple-    In order to reaffirm its coemitment to conservation
falls in the supply of energy. in-      enting a progrm for improving the efficiency   GOP has agreed with the Sak under tbe proposed loan
sufficient attention has been          of the EEL refinery and a fertilizer plant.        to initiate a program of energy sudits by November 1.
accorded to demand 8maaement.                                                             1985 in at least 20 of the largest energy cosming
VAPDA is preparing, witb the assistance of         plants in the public seeter industries to be perfoMed
consultants financed by USAID, a program for       by local nd foreign consultant finr  sd completed by
the expansion and rebabilitation of tbe           June 30, 1957.
distribution system. Specifically it ould
focus on: energy loss anlysis, comprebeonsive   GOP bha  agreed witb the Bnk under tbe propose  loan
long and short terms program, comodities.          to intiate by no later than Decmber 31, 1985:  (b) a
establishing criteria for  election of feeders,  study to rwise the optil supply ad utilization
wok order system, tebch     t reorganization of   pattern for tbe next five years; an  (b) a Study to
the staff, plan for urban and rural erpansion,   outlioe a demnd  tman       t policy aimie at isproving
distribution system mapping  ad updating,          tbh  efficiency of  as supply au  coumption.  ehe
criteria, for selecting villages, conector         results of thes  studiesi wold be revios"  with the
prectices, application of single phase            Sank by Diecmber 31, 1986.
distribution, distribution system overbead
protection, load mnagement and voltage reuloa-  WAPDA has agreed with the Sak under the proposed
tion and service reliability.  The stuy is        Fiftb Power Project to recruit coultents, no later
xpected to be completed by March 1985. The         December 31, 1985 on to         conditione  atisfactey



ISSUE1S                                         ACTIOS TAREN                             ACtIOfl TO 13 T11
baok would review and coment on the results    to the Baok, to undertake a losd research a*d lod
and would ueek agreement from GOP on priority    demand anagement study wbich would be eompleted and
investment, *nd financial requirmments.          reviewed with the Sank. by no later than June 30s  1987.
QUID is also financing a study that would
identify tbermal plants wose efficiency could
be improved througb rehabilitation and retro-
fitting.
VAPDA hba agreed under the Fourtb Power Project
to initiate by July 31. 1985, and complete by
July 31, 196, a study aimed at identifying the
sources of energy losses in the transmission
system, quantifying such losses, determining the
optimm level of such losses, and producing a
detailed work and inwestment program to acbieve
such optim levels.
GOP has also completed a survey of energy
consusption by public sector industries.
IIISTUUTIOAIL DIVLOHET
12. O9eratial Autonomy: The two most  VAPDA has recruited consultants, under USAID    GOP has agreed under the proposed loan to review
important agencies in the energy      financing, to prepere an action plan designed   the means an4 the tietable for reorganising
0e4tor, WAPD  and  GDC, Deed coni-  to improve the operational efficiency of VAPDA  the power subsector by June 30, 1966.
derable strengtbening and greater    througb its reosanisation.  It will focus on
fiscal and managerial autonomy.       assessing the viability of assigning to  APD
the responsibility for generation nd trans-
mission and creating a new decestralised
holding company for the distribution of
electricity tbrough semi-autonomus agencies.
It would also designu  coemprebesive distri-
bution training progrm, and establisb a
training institute.
CCDC s financial position is expected to         COP baa agreed with the lank uner the proposed
improve considerably due to:  (a) Gor.           loan to review by June 30, 1986 the measure  needed
decision to allow it to retain a larger          to strengthes OCDC's managerial nd self-fixnacing .2
sbare of its earnings; and (b) anticipated       capabilities and the timetable for their imple-               I
increases in the production of oil and gas.      mutation.
GOP intends to take advantage of the improved
financial position of CDC to move towards
strengtbening its managerial and self-financing
capabilities.



I8SU8S                                             ACTIONS TAKEN                              ACTIONOS O 33 TAKEN
13. Enermy Plamnina:  ftergy planning        GOP has established an Office of Enertgy Plan-    In order to ensure that MEBPLAWs activities would
and coordination is inadequate.         ning (ENURPLAN) in the Ministry of Planning and  provide the input nopded for effective policy
Development under financing from USAID. It is decisions, sad integrated energy sector aOd macro-
mandated to collect, compile and analyre, On an  economic planning, COP GM       areed witb tbo Bonk under
ongoing basis, all relevant data on the energy   the proposed loan, to review, On an annual basis,
sector and integrsate them witb the country's       beginning April 30, 1986, its scope of work jointly
annual, Five-Year and long-tert development         with the bank, USd10 and ADS.
plans using the most recent analytic and
modelling techniques to enable the Government
to identify priorities and evalnate resource
requirements to support effective policy forum-
lotion and investment planning. ENPLAR,
which is divided into two groups, one for deve-
loping an energy data system and the other for
data analysis, is headed by a Managing Director
who was recently appointed. It will be admin-
istered by an interi-_inisterial Energy Policy
Board.    8RPLhM  will be staffed entirely by
Pakistani personnel who will be assisted during
the first four years by consultants financed by
USAID.
To ensure that Pakistani personnel are able
to continue the recently initiated energy
planning and conservation activities, the Govt.
bas implemented, under financing from US1AD,
a manpower development program.
14. Enerty Conservation:  Absence of a                                                           In order to coordinate the conservation activities
comprebensive and coordinated                                                                and make thm more effective, GOP intendS to estab-
strategy for rationalizing energy                                                            lish a National Energy Conservation Center (SWIRCON)
consumption.                                                                                 under financing from  the BDnk and P5AID.  The Center
will serve as the focal point for all conservation
activities nd its wain rtesopeibilities wlUl ha to
plan energy conservation actions, formulate policy
guidelines, develop a dat  base,  upport training
activities and private. reearcrb, undertake develop-
ment and demonstration, as well as public informa-
tion activities, *ad sonitor the implemetation of
conservation progrema of various public and private
entities.  A detailed action program for  nEUCoI is
currently being prepared with the adaitantce of the
Sank aod USAI8 .  The Center is expected to for ulate        I
* comprehensive national conservation progrem within
about one year.  As a first step, GOP baa cgreed with
tbe Dank under the proposed lean to identify in 1985
at lest 15 of the largest energy-consumiag plents
in the private seter for audits to be perforid by
local od foreign consultant firms. All efforts would
be made to complete those by Decembr 31, 1987.



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart
(December  1985)
1 1 .ewg,                      (]gig               I             1             ct3
(H  MVGOPt tJd  (
po" bvmiatb  o>              d t hta ntDi OddI  b0vOo*y CtY*
hdtt V*td                      d bV* d                                nm PJ Ca 
Fr*  Ftsv   &                Fhanow  & F*wv*t)                        tCNC dXaed 0   .
0Ptuokwn)                                                             of tkxcov &PAW*)
t911*trvatr
Diect'GO.1rwuj                                                                                                   ne           aeincha(OS*itg~
COrKMSO"  00              wa         Gewa                                                          &Res9arct)      (Sm hvd4. 00-~    oniatIS"m a,
Ca,               ,              .          __ 5| 
.  ,      .              . ~~~~~~~Az.~   .             I           _                                             _         _)
*ec"o   I                                                                                    II,                     
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om   OP-f @    w*  ru_ghd
*              it             I           . I         Ctx. c                ; t ot                                                            P
* ~ ~~~                                                             t *            *                                 I            pc v
I   .  '           s             I                               t             |                *                 I            P O)~S SS  I 
OGOC            PIL            f           oDwApnn a         Ph(C             .C WA- -<O
POt             bAoLo. SdolS                                 GUSP            WX            KE9:
Pt              PtROD         SSC                                           IlL
FJ(MAR)         PSO                        ccRec Couftn&
UNISbN          Pti           FJ dY                                                                                                          rtaN (pw)
cm              cIx           PSO         hbtoaloat er*w
data etc
NEPM - Ntino tw  PRAW Can_o0t           OXV -- OCkcidwn  Co at SA                    &"         of _&nTs d tu OS
ER- tamgvRlv tgGcw                     PMDC - PdM          erdC n              MAC - SktePoPolS t**e   & PetohbntiatCoxp
ECC - CObW* Econ,s   l CccdhmcibConbwr?e  G6P - GeciogI  SUsvofd Patdn          Nt - NOtior Ra*wi Ltd
C - WaSeCcSS Con O d # tIW O              PRL - F PO*n I eRSAA  Ltd               Nt - NOtxd U.Satti td (b-r gpeftd _c1)
kESIn*CuC                          ARL - A*txckgtaEVUd                  WMdA: V    a POwN OuAuIPnmen A*Iht
CDY- -d04WP-CltWO"atv                  PARCO - PA*AFb RlneCo                    KESC- goaucNE  l,9AWCaxwMtm
acoc - a Gal D.A,ment Capoxallon         P90 - Pt*a Sk*a 01 Co Ltd.             PfEC - Pd* W  Aftomc Ergy Conml
POL - PFnsw Olblk Ltd                   POS- Ptkston Ssmvh Sh w               AMDO - Apto :ctwogt Doulcpnun io nm%
Pt - Pddslon PFalw Ltd                 C1X - Cote d WtLA                   Bftm   - Eb, RPTs* & O0 IkwMt
FPU - F* oFundoflo                    SNGPL - SU IN*wn Gos FPS.tw Ltd         UCOO-En -   aWv Camnfn CVet
lNON - Wton t9M Co d USA                SGIC - S9 Go. IRonm  Co Ltd
SGC - Sohom Goa Cac4B-2
z
xZ



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart
VW"v*MXko  (                                                  I.-,
(wua~Lwagm  Ger~hM~W  IUSCCh1A3U      o        GWOO  jftMM09
(k**")                      1'10'X)011 t                                '')
_                E         53~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.~
1  '  1  |                     s-----1--                        T~--3
,   _______     .                     l,              .       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



II- 
I              I                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Z'Z XaNNf                   _f                                                                                                          N



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Thermal Power Generation Statistics
Steam Units
51tND      PaloU I sEwi           CWITV                 MIT 1 TILITtl                                     111TI.                           FML                 EfItt
itLa    wOc.3S,              1toF64          MAL S G OCT. 31,191F4         la11,1          31 F  6  
66T1    so13           (11111                                                          NEU       LUS               LOP   11Ff t3o 3  (I        33893Kul          FM
OF       is                      #Miss  own  F   VW                            TOTIM. VIIII   fc        F         ACTOR1318       fVU    310/93    81         mm11      12
T11 MINSS. SECE tIM tM EFFECTIVE  1 lb hl                    (it 111          III    too)   89l        48 It    la)f  (t1 ui       S       OIL
--          -------   -   .     ..    .......   .......   .    . ...................-------..  -------  ----.---   -------  ........  --  -  ---   -------   ---- _-_ -   - _ ....  ----- ,  -  - _- _.. 
"To         t  411960      24.4    65.O      0.0    30360    53         t0.9    6721    76.?                                273.1    61.                       5u3    32n0
2  6110%       24.4    45.0    60.    12104        4954    5.        46n      52.3                              280.4    75.e                      to"6       M.
3   12/189     20.9    65.0    60.0   837144    6            4.      69?3    79.0                               M.0    67.9                        10663    52.0
4   121193    20.9    65.0    60.0   ISM2          6669      7.i 7408   4.5                                     265.0    59.6                      W0AS    32.0
SiolsTa                         2i0.o   240.0                                                                           8631.2
_m                                                         5677     67.1    648       n.3                               251.6    4.9    46.0    32.4   1063.   32.U   1199            2.4
91E60   1  5/1960         24.5      7.5      6.0   166706       99     Y.       34M    9L.                                  45.3    67.3                      1793      19.0
2  591%0       24.5      7.5      6.0   87594       7175    61.9    6733    99.7                                 46.6    e.9                      8in         9.
3  6/190       19.4      3.0      L.0    1745      759    6.6    2874    24.3                                     9.9    S6.9                      "79      In.
4    W8967     U7.4    83.0       e.0   1O52    6062         9.2    7265    O3.2                                 3.6    62.e                       87n       19.0
U11ITO1                          36.0    2.0                                                                             133.4
mom_9                                                               733      6711    76.6                                         n.7    96.0       4.0   $790       ".0 *1914        1.1
N          I  3181965      17.7    82.5    12.5   123447    4961        79.7    474      54.0                               60.6    60.6                      16        23.0  976        73
2  SI1M        U1.7    12      .5 I      125159    7013    00.                51.6                               39.6    62.7 ee56    23.0  Ism. U..2
3  41967       7.      12.5    82.5   817452      "74    76.2    793    90.6                                    64.7      52                      143       30  8L.         187.2
4  4/8967      17.4    12.5    12.5    14713    a3          74.6 U    65      76.0                               49.1    59.0                     186        23.  89t1.0    87.3
mISIL                            16.0    50.0                                                                            894.
AIM                                                        60l7     77.3    6094    0.6                                   .5    48.7   100.0        0.0   1465      231.    891       8T.2
f1I6MM   I  61890          17.4    64.9    60.0    HI7         6412     72          3     630
2   W1   ?7   87.0        .0    60.0       *413    6469    73.       6327    77.9
=M10L                           132.0   120.0                                                951.0                       512.5
011111E       t        17.2                                60       73.5    69         2.9              56       9S   276.3    72.8    61.0    39.9   82651          1.3    I72       29.8
am         1  311974       10.7   8110.0   880                                   7434    64.9                               12.1    46.0                        91.5
2   101711U4    0.   I88.0   883.0                                   66       73.2                              563.0    72.1                        699 n l   .11
3  1211950      3.1         10.0 280.0                              3241                                      8330.0    76.                          9      3.1
1mti3.                          930.0   430.0                                                                           2435.3
9339I    64.3                                                                                                           600.0    75.5     9.3       1.0    99         1.   IUI        M9.9
._111M                                                                          "6        71.3                                         3.4                                                                          f
NAM      Asia  ro.        84.2
I8f L     f1tP8r a   titlIitllul * hstiulIIb.lag 3w.ect6v. Capetpfl



Thermal Power Generation Statistics
Combustion Turbines
STAIN  Pml* 11 151tE              WMlT!                 WIT 1lTU.*TI                                     .mII                             "EL                 U93W
Wit . OFUW  T. 31,NS914      o     "         TA  WF    OCTpg. 3I,14       an"!1         mumml
NOR   tr Om                                                                              .$  LU                  LM    _U"FOI    W
3?    II            F            til  _Emm  4115t . *A                        MAL             FUACt.Z _ rINM                                      t    M             .N    II)
51 UII15. WM11 Own        I        TIL  W 1111  (tml   mt   (V      (a)       (RI    ()    (S)   di 1/  lob)   II)  1   as                OIL
111111N    I  V/1%&        III      MS.   11.        360      15       11.9
2  WI%U    1L$    13.3    11.0    341             172m     9.
S   101199    15.l    14.1   1.0    2214          140     10.
4   10111       11     WI    12.0    22m         10       17.2
S   I1/9       15.1      9.1    132.0    23213    151      17.0
0   111909     15.1    14.      12.0    211,1      110     u0.0
mint.                   us    iOo+                                                                             ii.
_lR                                                       1533    17.S                                                 13.5              O.9        1t2o   1 m.0   11449    1t9.
Oki       I  2/19,10      14.1     5.0    11.0    3141    2474    3.2
2  2l9t1       4.6    ILI0    2.9    4291    2            33.2
3  12119        LI    2.0    25.0    150          2051       .3
9   121Wl       LI    25.9    30         2MS       311      6.1
S  S1"          3.1     5 .0    2        121       34      39.
*  Sf11"1       L3      2.0              IMN      34       39.1
_2                              136.0   122.0                                                                          229.0
Nam                                                       3071     3.1                                                3.2               14.0    I.0    10 2 U7                     23 O4  
tU65_    I  3S1            9.1    25.0    25.0    150         191      17.     2m         .6                               4.2  75 .
2    im9        9.      25.0    25.0   1tl         12      P1.4    214      29.1                               44.     7.1
3   11911       9.4    25.0        0      079    190    17.    2            27.0                                .2     105
4   /m2         9.4   23.       3L0      14703       0    17.9    23        27.3                               ".4    73l
S  t?I1         9.2    ae0      30       1M        170     19.4    229    200                                  407      2.
0   10/191      9.1    25.      3.0    1t1         1       V        26      29.7                               07.7    7LS
7   W9IM        9.1    2L9       L.      1373      129     14.3      25     20.2                               4.1      9.1
I   It171      9.0    25.0    210        3411    29       17.0    223    3.8                                  65.2  7t.7
NtS                            2.0   206.0                                                                             30.3
Now                                                       1        17.4  2049  27.9                                    40.011 12.92VA  1321.619101   ILI
13_   a                           4111   392.                                                                            0
-sm                                                            20   23.4
It Led UM     lUIW   atilieati l *  uu tmlu/l            lSwsafectI. CapKityfl



Annex 2.4
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Forecast of Energy Balances
(CWh)-
Power Station          FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Hydel
Existing              13761  13761  13761  13761  13761  13761  13761  13761
Tarbela 9 & 19         1345   1529   2094   2094   2094   2094   2094   2094
Tarbela 11 & 12        ----   ---   --         332    981   1781   1781   1781
Tarbela 13 & 14         -        ----   ----   ----   ----    700   1400   1400
Mangla 9 & 10          ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----    100    260
Subtotal Hydel        15106  15290  15855  16187  16836  18336  19136  19296
Thermal
TPS Guddu              2668   2869   3223   3415   3332   3288   3493   3493
NGPS Multan             867    987   1155   1280   1260   1260   1260   1260
S    Faisalabad         447    665    590    665    465    421    412    412
5TPS Faisalabad         283    350    445    350    350    350    350    350
TPS Sukkur              151    172    201    210    210    210    210    240
NTPS Hyderabad          151    158    150    158    158    158    158    180
CTPS Kotri              344    237    276    230    230    230    230    230
GTPS Shadara            198    139    158       75      75     75      75      75
CTPS Quetta             202    164    182    125    125    125    125    125
REPCO NESGO             110    127    145    174    174    174    174    174
Guddu Gas Trub.         300   1576   1576   1710   1710   1710   1710   1700
Kot Addu Gas Tur        -       367    998   1715   1824 
Guddu - CS               --    ---    591    855    855    855    855    855
Jamshoro-I & 2            -    -        ---    900   1600   1825   1825   1825
Kot Addu - CS                   ---    ---    ---   1040   3537   3493   3493
Jamshoro-3 & 4                  ---    ---    ---       -     520   1748   1748
Faisalabad - CS         --      ---    ---    ---             ---    218    650
Lakhra Cool                                                          ---    850
Total Steam + Gas      5721   7811   9690  11862  13408  14738  16336  17720
Total WAPDA Gen.      20827  23101  25545  28049  30244  33074  35472  37016
Import from KESC        400    409    629    720    384    255    255    155
Total Generation      21227  23510  26174  28769  30628  33329  35727  37171
Energy Required       21712  23796  26174  28769  31328  34336  37632  41245
Surplus/Deficit        -485   -286       0       0   -700  -1007  -1905  -4074



-48-
ANNEX 3.1
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Project Description
1.0     The project consists of conversion into combined cycle units of two
96 MW and two 72 MW (site rated) combustion turbines (CTG). The 96 MW CTGs
are supplied by Kraftwerk Union of West Germany and the two 72 MW CTCs are
supplied by GEI of Italy. These units are at present under construction.
Each CTG will be a 50 Hz, heavy duty industrial single shaft machine with
inlini compressor, directly coupled with mAtching generator. CTGs would be
capable of continuous operation on heavy fuel oil, HSD, or natural gas
(para 3.1). CTGs will be provided with a gas bypass stack to enable open
cycle operation.
2.0     The combine cycle components included in the proposed Project
comprise essentially (i) four heat recovery boilers (HRB) connected to the
two 96 MW CTGs and the two 72 MW CTGs respectively, and (ii) two steam
turbogenerators (STG) of appropriate capacity (around 100 MW) for connection
to each HRB. The heat recovery boilers (HRBs) will be unfired, dual pressure
steam boilers designed to accept the maximum exhause temperature and gas flow
of the connected CTG. Each STC will be designed to match the maximum heat
input from the connected HRB. STGs and HRBs will be designed for sliding
pressure operation over a wide range to respond to CTG load variation. The
generators will be either air or hydrogen cooled with an output voltage of
about ll-kV. Standard electrical, control and auxiliary equipment together
with the associated installations will be provided for each units.
3.0     The associated transmission system comprises 132-kV lines, under
construction, and 220-kV lines, included in the proposed Project, which will
connect the plant with concomitant grid substations. These will be
constructed in accordance with WAPDA standards and practices.



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINE  CYCLE POWER PROJEC
DetaiLled Cost Table-Power Station
tor .mKe mi.nwma                         du   WIE pi II too                    local
85/86NS 86   AI1 81aesa    09/90 @/96 ltoal   35/ 86 /1  VU  /8 87/8SMSAD9/5/91 gotal    [VA N~blonni  Iaa.   I.t.t
IL CIVIL VMS
tusi acqisitim AM                          s.     -     -     -               5.5   0.4                      -     -    5 -            0.4        -   .4
rowEs station mustsi                         - ..  u1.2 46.846 06. 5.M6   3560         - 69.7 42.5s 66.5  73.1  2527  220.6           14 4        -4
KSISEUIIM  LS                                -  2lo  . 1 t.8  M*. 11.0    -   28.J        4.6  IS. 0  16.2  1, 4   -   53.2            3 3            J. 3.
S%6-Iotal CIVIl 665                          S.5  19. 3 42 2 Si.8a 51.8  is. 6   69.3   6.4  24.3 57.5  34.7 91.0 2 2 251                is6 I         IS 
UtilE                                        -O 502 109.4 M. 6 l506  5* 7  5020          5864 I"25194.1 M6  74 6   M550   281 7623 46 0
110644I                                     A 216 13.2 109.8 109.8 3Io 6  J5fif0      41 1 8 81t46.9tI5A 54 4  476 3   209 I09
81111ant84S                                          36.S 109.6l09. 8  It'i    35660        - 44.S 643. 6 1%4.5   650  So07I   is8 a   14       is  3tI
SPANS                                        -    -             29.4 29.4   s8.8 a                        41.4 44      8.s,6    3 2    06       IS   5.3
cim INS 6T36                                    6 0  18.  24.O0 2.0          so600        68a 21.9 31.4  16.       -   ?1.0    2. 9    0.5      3 .4  48a
Sq4,-i.1a6 fLtcWNEOmlCit IIuINEII                 92.8 228. 2 394.2 411.6 228.0 l. 3W.8    1042 27S.3 ISt . 6 SY5 2 336 .3 a".695   145S    4 5   318 a612.8
tuln*i*efins90g1t,                                      -2.  17.1 12.8   42.8                  -    25.6 35.1 it94   911a              S. I           Si
CMsvMIN uin s                                     -         7.71 t.2  7.7   25.6       --13   .0 16 549                                 .4-3.4
Pilaf lUCIUS                                 -    -         33 51,4  20.3  136.0                     IS 1. 3  5. 0 86.  16 .   8.6    6 .4            6.
Stb4otal IRCItS                                              So-   S9.  19.8 5 9.8   19. 4             I    I16.3 M4, 1 133.5S  466.  S.8a  17.2     - 26
tma~~~~ sasurns                 7.6~~~~~~t    14.2 It.2  14.2  14.2  7.1   7110   7.5 S16.3  11. S  689 20.3  10.3 a    I 4  -    5.        .?       '
IEIPNIUIII                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0  4.6t  4. 1  4.1  4.1  2.0   20.3   2.1  4.3  4.7  So  5.4  2.6   74.3    1.%  -             .5
wmuious                          . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5    2.3S  0.   0.5   0.6  0.6  0, 6    2. 8    6.2   -            9.
Sob-Total IGEgiEtIU  n   U6IUISIW6Ui         9. I 18.  187  IS,1  58a,1  9.6   93.6   9.5 26.3  223  24.5 20.3  14.6  It S         67  7 S            1. .
lotal IhWIESINh1 COSTS                          14.6 130.8S8M. 25$*.6 So?. 9 31 1.90 1. M4. 6  is. 9 t49.1 355.613M. 08S".2 S12.32. WS.6 IN 64.9   45.6  33.8 164.
Total                                            4 6120.8289. 2 50. 6 67. 9 311 0 1.844. I  65.9 649.7 355.8 731.0* 859.2 S512.3 2.629.6   6 4.9   4580  33.8 166.3
tcReA  9. MS8 2349
06?
t1;m



Detailed Cost Table-220 kV Line
fR.al    fu os  @1   otal   IE~cl.  CopS
N#iist Ilsiorpt
Bas*  Costs                                     loteo  I ncludipg  Coptt  i cg          . ts                  ..................
IPM  iSPUE tilijopl                                           (PAK  RiUEE  Iilionp                                     totZl
..........................    ...    ..............................                           fr.       hidc.   DtAies 8
s;/86  66/St 67/68/69  69/90  90/91  total    WAS 65/86   86/                     87/88 t         9/90  90/91  lotal          F%cht.    flaesi       lstes    lotal
:-:-C. t   : .r:: ,: t: r::,r.:-:  CCCC#  :::::   lis:  :5:t:  ,:n:   :c::::  ::r *: v:r  -:::: :r                          ::5 :;::; c :  :sc.c:        :: cc  Etct
1. lInSI"ENIT COStS
A.  CtvILt 9M6S
RitGHtl Of MAY                                                     0.3      0.2         *       -        -             0. 5       Q3    e3                                            0.6                     0                     0.0
BUILDINGfi                                                                  0.3    0.3    0.3    0. I                   1.0          -    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.2                    1t4                    01                     0.1
Sub-totol CIVII VMS                                                    0.3    0.6    0.3          0.3    0.I                1. 5      0.3      0.7    0.4       0.4      0.2         -    2.0                    0.1               - 
S. ftEtNiOEcUICat OIIINEN
...... ........ ... ... ...... ...... ..
EPICII                                                                -        -    9.0   15. 0    6.0                30. 0                  -   10 a   19.4    8.3             -   336           1.7           -          0.7      2.4
ISOtLOS  ain    flitil S                                              -        -    6. 0   10.0    4.0                20.0          -              72   12.9        5 6             25 7          1. I          *          05       1.6
101lS                                                                -        -   10.0   t0.9    5.0                 75 0                        12 0   12.9       70 3ot 9                      1.4                      0.6      2.0
SU6STAIION  fWlplEit                                                                 2.3     S.  7    J 4             of 4                         2  7    7 4    4.                 14.9        0.7                        o .3    0.9
Stb-t.tal EtiCItESNUNUIC*t 1EitilEti                                       -       -   27.3   40.7   16.4                 86.4                    -   32.6   12.8   25.6             *  M, I          4 9            -          2  1      .9
C.   tUCletI
1n11*10   IISSPO8I6AIOU                                                        -    1.0    3.0        1.0              s.0                   -    1.9    6.0        2.1         -   t..                      06 o                   0.6 
COiSSIUtClliW ls            E-                                                 -   0.4   0.2   0.4                      2.0          *       -  0.7   2.4   0.9                       4.0            -       0.2                    0.2
COOSIUCTI          t   U                                              -        - M.0         6.0      6.0      2.0   20.0            -       -   t     1.t   12.0   12.9    4.6   40.6               -       2.                -    2. S
.... .. ..... ...... ..... ..... .   .  *.... .. .*...  ..... ...... . ^*. . ..   ...... ... ...  . .....  ....... .,.......... ....  ., .. .. ... .....,...   ..... . . 
5th-loCal IKCtUOJit                                                        -       -    7.4   10.2        7.4    2.0   27.0                       -   13.7   20.4   15.9          4.6   S4.6             -         .4                    2.4
Q   EiB1itEEOlti        O  If..i.ISttU.....
.... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~       ~   .  .      .....     .. .   .. ..    .. .     .. .    ....      ....     ....     .  ..   .. .     .. .     .. .    ..  .  .  .  .  ....      .  .  .     .  .
1Ub lt  SEItICESR             D                                             1.7      1.1     1.1       . t     0.6    S.7            -    2.      1. 4      1. 5     1. 6    o. 9     7.4                    05                -    0. s
5th-bIaS   EtlBItERillit6 B        t *1t1     5 tII UI IICtt               -    t. 7.    1. t    1.t    1..t    0.6    S. t                    2..0     t.      1.5      t.. .     .s  7. 4                      0. 5     -.o. S
legal  INUStVEUt  COSIS                                                     0.3     2.3   36.1   S2.3   21.1    2.6  120.6                0.3      2.7   48.4   74.9   43.3    S.S  175.0                 4.9         4.0           2.1   10.9
,:::   it::e:  :ccs:  ccc:: cUat.  scs:::  :::r                n:z:    .::2  3::.":  cxci: tic::  :ttSI   cc:::   1::-:  ::::,:  c::c:tC,T cS::.
total                                                                        0.2      2.3   36.1   S2.3   21.1    2.6  120.6                03      2.7   46.4   74.6   43.3    1.5  ItS.0                  4.0        4.0            2.1   10.0
zTa:    C?.,t  :::::  -        :#2   itCus    tv.. %2:c:   Stt*: ViltS  IflhC  :::::  t::2:  ttit                    ' $, :V      :   *::12S   e1  .::::c  * :st
_..,_........_ ,_._.  _   _.__._.._.._ ..................._.._.._.__._.._.__ _ ._ ._ _. _.  _.__._...................................... ..  __ __._.._.__.. ._.__,,............................. _.._... ....._  __ .. _.__ ........  ._  ._ _  _._.._.._  ._.._._. _._..__._.._.__._.._.__._
be_  0.  1985   23:49
00
I"JX



SuMmar Accounts Cost 'summar
(PAK WPE IH I I ion)        SIis nl                  SIt  I
tocal  foreign total    ;oea  Foreign total  Rvcbhnp    Cols
I.l 1ms9nim  COSMS
A. two . sUilDIu. U4D tcivt VOS
*M-                                                6.0             6.0   0.4         *  0.4                    0
civlet MS                                         151.0       -   157.0    9.        -  9. a                   a
WIfIIoIsS                                          36.8       -   36.8    2.3            2.3          -        2
St-lotal taln .  JltSlG UIMD 0Ciit  ORMS             139.6       - a1.8   12.5          -  M2.5          - S
l1t111  COWtooG                                    24.0   36.0    600 0       5    2.3   3.S         60        J
Mli4 it - NEC                                    260.4  601.6   868.0   16.3   38.0  S4.3            *0       44
*UXSIMY It - ItC                                  169.9  254.9  424.    10.8 6     5.9  26 6         60       22
SU8SiFUll                                          3.4     8.0    114    0 2    0 5   0.1            is        I
tfoSl. NStUill*i     '                            22.  s2   1 is           1 I 4   3 3   4           1 t0      4
S,b-t,l.l ,,iwipNE                                  480 2   959.0 1, 43. 2   30.0   59. 9  90           6r       73
C. EUECIISn
ImS l1S51 f*4ttlOt                               47.8            47.8    30         -  3.0                    2
FsSIISUI     NCI     RSCtIOU                      27 6        -   27.6    I               .t        I
inttIIm mm1                                         0. 3    10.1 7 St0    S. 0     4.4   9.4         41        I
SD.-t1t011  CtION                                   tS. I      0.   2 26. 4    9. *   4.4  14.2         it       it
loctl Ct llUSiM                                  7it          - I6.1    4.6              4.6                   4
IOnEi  PMS lftI                                       -   22.6    22.6             1.4   1.4        tO0        I'
SWlotel CUStLI*UCv                                    76.I   2.6     993    4.8       1.4  6.2          23        S
oll 1ASEIIEII COSTS                                     912.4 1.052.3 1.964 7  St0    65. 6 I2.             54      100
Stilcal Cotlluiqcloe                                  121.8   83.3  20M.I   *.6        S.2  12.8         41       10
Prie, CantFte  tel                                    333.4   301.3  634.8  20.0 6    t.8  39.7          4?       37
lotal NOICI COStS                                      .J36?.? 1.436.9 2.804.6  85.5    89.8 315.3          St      143
..-_._............... ........   .............   .   .   ..   ...._....... .. ..... .... .. .............   .................
Dorewb 9. I981 23: 50
I!P



PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
lmplsmentatn Schedule
WR             1965                   19116                   1987                   196                      MP                      900
QUARTER   4    2    3    4        4    2    3    4  1           2     3    4      1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4        4    2    3    4
PROJECT PREPAATION                                                                                                     I
CONSULTAN SERVICES                                                              m       no-                     m _                             - _ *  so
ReCt.
SlE LEVES _N.
Spec.  ddin_                       Cons _c_ _ 
comBiNED cyCLEUNITS 
CTG             ~~~Manufoc      Erectlon & Testing    C~iNl
CR@ISTG                 -          -            - -l           1;  I    l       ,    |---         |      .      -           -                 -         
I     I    I  Sper-  BddIg            Mo &nuk     ctn&        Erection 
TRAN9/IE9   SYSTEM                                                                    I                 I           - I         -    -    -          G    G
RJEL PIPEUK                                 ~~~~~~~~Spec.  Bkiddin                    Manuc &  rc Ion 
| REL R{ELINE                                                            I I l    l  I  z   I                                                          W      n3 I|    4
s~~~~~~~F                                                            I
---  .,d P'$Bak'sfinacigprec



-53-                           ANNEX 3.4
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINE) CYCLE POll  PRWOECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8ank Fiscal Year                  Disbursements, US$ million
and Semester                      In Semester      Cumulative       Cumulative X
1987
December 31, 1986                     0.2              0.2              0.3
June 30, 1987                         3.0              3.2              3.6
1988
December 31, 1987                     6.0              9.2             10.2
June 30, 1988                        10.0             19.2             21.3
1989
December 31, 1988                    15.0             34.2             38.0
June 30, 1989                        20.0             54.2             60.2
1990
December 31, 1989                    15.0             69.2             76.9
June 30, 1990                        10.8             80.0             89.0
1991
December 31, 1990                     6.0             86.0             95.6
June 30, 1991                         4.0             90.0            100.0



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPNT AUTHRITY
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE PROJECT
(RUPEES MILLION)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENTS
(YEAR ENDING JUNE 30th)
. .............ACTUAL .......... (PROV.) .................. FORECAST........................
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90   FY91  FY9M    F9
KIWh GENERATED (MILLIONS)      12124  13206 14768  16477  18052  18780 21227 23510 26174  28769 30628  33329 35727 37171
KWh SOLD (MILLIONS)             8160  9068  10288  11593  12762  13756  15708  17973  20154  22152  23584  25663  27510  2822
KIh SOLD/KWh GENERATED(M)         67    69      70     70    71    73    74    76         77     77    77      77     77    77
AVE. REVENUE/KWb SOLD(PAISA)  46.19  50.84  56.75  61.93  62.74  63.80  74.41  85.94 107.52 135.67 149.52 163.70 180.19 M.52
OPERATING REVEPA (PR MILLION)
..............................
SALES OF ELECTRICITY            356  4245   5322  6146  6785   7276  9222  11775  15784  22281  26526 31795  37429 437
FUEL SURCHARGE                   223   365    516   1034   1222   1500  2466  3671   5886  7772   8737  10216  12141  14474
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES         150    167    173    181    207   210   231    254    280   307    338   372   409   450
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUS         3919  4M      6011   7361   8214  896  11919  15700  21950 30361  3S602  4238   49979  58702
OPERATING EXPENSES(PR MILLION)
...........................
PURCNASE Of POWER                                       .  ....   447   372   418   603   662    6S1    368    259    165
FUEL COST                        388   494   1132   1541   1892  2404  3422  5229  8453  11295  12791  15349  18419  22103
MAINTENACE                       266   336    514    545   641    643   997   1198   1435   1743   2117  2551   3051   3594
OPERATION & ADNIVISTRATION       584    767   952   1178   1546  1730  2163   2703   3379  4224  SS2  6599  8249  10312
DEPRECIATION                     544   621    708   819    990   1126  1340  1601   1920  2317   2815   3404   4065   4845
................  -------------------------------------.................................................................................,
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES        1702  2218  3306  4083   5069  6350  8294  11150  15791  20241  23654  28272  34063  41018
NET OPERATING INCOME            2137   2559   2705   3278   3145   2636  3625   4550  6159  10120  11948  14111  15916  1'684
OTHER INCOE                       85    109    97    127   235    198   218    240   264    290   319   351    386   424
NET INCOME AVAILABLE FOR FIXED  2222   2668   2802  3405   3380   2834  3843   4789  6423  10409  12267  14462  16302  18109
CNAR6ES
FIXED CNARGES
.............
INTEREST                         973   985   1071   1264   1481   1801   2464  3334   4398   5578  6931   8359  10016  11759
LESS:INTEREST CHARGED CONSTN.   181    207    124    93       98   432   416   518   633    788    987   1168   1348   1503
........................................................................................................
INtEREST CHARGED OPERATIONS      792    778   947   1171   1383   1369  2048   2816  3765   4791   5944   7191   0668  10296
INCa.                           1430   1890   1855   2234   1997  1465   1796   1973   268   5619  6323   7271   7634   7813
LESS:PAYNENT TO GOVERNNENT        20    20      20     20     20    20    20    20        20     20    20      20     20    20
............;......................................................................................
NET PROFIT                      1410   1870   1835   2214   1977  1445   1776  1953  2638  5599  6303   7251   7614  7TM
RATE OF RETURN OR AVERAGE NET
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION
........... ..................................... 
HISTORICALLY VALUED    15.25  18.30  17.31  17.92  14.60  10.58  12.17  12.72  14.28  19.32  18.66  18.15  17.03  15.98
REVALUED (PROFORMA)    10.00  10.40  9.50  10.00   8.20  4.14   5.07  5.22  6.13   8.96   8.79   9.42   8.99  8.75



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE PROJECT
(RUPEES MILLION)
...............................
FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
.... ..... .. .... . .. ... . . .... .. . ... .. .
(YEAP ENDING JUNE 30th)
.O..................     FORECAST ...       '''''''''''''''-''
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                    FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
................                                                    .... ..........     ..... ....  .... .  ....  .... .  ....  .... .  ....  ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
.......... ................ ......
NET INCOME FOR FIXED CHARGES                                        2834   3843   4789   6423  10409  1226?  14462  16302  18109
DEPRECIATION                                                        1126   1340   1601   1920   2317   Z815   3404   4085   4845
.............. i...  .............................................
TOTAL INTERNAL CAtiI GENERATION                                     3960   5183   6391   8343  12727  15081  17866 20387 22954
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS                                                597    656    720    789    864    947   1038   1137   1245
SEaRIT  DEPOSITS                                                      43     48     55     63     73     83      96    110    127
BORROWINGS
..........
RUPEE LOANS                                                         1209   2718   3900   4103   4532   4118   4290   677    5548
FOREIGN LOANS                                                       2427  3264   4333  4325   5856   7513   8404   8263  9349
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN                                                           .4    264    578    426    165       0      0      0
............................................................
TOTAL BORROWINGS                                                    3636   6035   8497  9006  10814  11796  12694  15040  14897
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                              8236  11923  15662  18201  24478  27908  31693  36674  39223
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                  I
.....................                                                                                                                                  VI
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
....................
PROPOSED PROJECT                                                      16    152    404    812    903    518       0      0      0
OTHER CONSTRUCTION                                                  5672   7648  10347  10723  15767  18427  20733  23706 23874
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM                                          5688   7800  10751  11535  16669  18945  20733  23706  23874
DEBT SERVICE
............
INTEREST                                                            1801   2464  3334   4398   5578  6931   8359  10016  11799
LESS:INTEREST ACCRUED                                                 83     83     83     83     83      83     83     83     83
AMORTIZATION                                                         623    579    692    863    883   1000   1184   1488   1987
..i  .... . ... ;  ............. ................................. .    ............................
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                                  2341   2960   3943   5178   6378   7848  9460  11421  13703
PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT                                                 20     20     20     20      20     20     20     20     20
VARIATION IN WORKING CAPITAL
............................
CASH INCREASE                                                         74    190    190    432    405    m       403    511    619
OTHER THAN CASH INCREASE                                             114    952    758   1036   1005    803   1078   1016   1006
..... i.........................................................>
NET INCREASE                                                        187   1142    948   1468   1411   1095   1480   1527   1625
TOTAL APPLtCATIONS OF FDUS                                          8236  11923  15662  18201  24478  2       31693  36674  39223
TIMES DEBT SERVICE COVERED BY
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                                            1.69   1.75   1.62   1.61   2.00   1.92   1.89   1.79   1.68
SELF FINANCING RATtO3 Yr. AVE.                                       47     48     40     40     40      40     40     40     40



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMET AUTNORITY
KOT ADDU COMINED CYCLE PROJECT
(RUPEES NtLLION)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
(AS OF JUNE 30th)
..........-.   ACTUAL .                 (ESTINATE) .......FORECAST ........................
ASSETS                         FY8O  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY8s  FY86  FYs7  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
.... ........ ..... ..... ....  .... .... ....  .....  ....  .....    .-.....  ....  ..... *.....  .... .....  .... .....  .... .....  ....
FIXED ASSETS
..........
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION     16303  19265 20966 26100 29333 35019 41559 49936 59806 72618 88225 106305 127113 149731
LESS:DEPRECIATION RESERVE     3472  4133  4841  5650  6697  7823  9163 10764 12685  15002 17817 21221  25306 30151
.............................. ...........................-.-. *.  - .    *** ..  ...*^.  ..   r.**....  ......-....
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION  12831  15132  16125 20450 22636 27196 32396 39171  47122 57616 70408 85084 101807 119580
WORK IN PROGRESS               5149  5027  7500  6475  8095  8529 10206 13098  15396 20040 24366 28187 32433 35192
...................................................................................
TOTAL FIIED ASSETS            17960 20159 23625 26925 30731 3575  42601  52269 62517 77656 94774 113271 134240 1S4M
CURRENT ASSETS
........ ...........   
CASI                           317   315   429   611   501   575   765   955  1387  1792  2084  2487  2998  3617
INVENTORIES                    672  1239  1550  1649  1779  1967  2494  2746  2990  3631  4411  5315  6356  7487
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE             680   928  1182  1435  1752  1774  2146  2826  3951  5465  6408  7629  8996  10566
WATER WING ACCOUNTS             159   19l   242   251   212   223   234   245   258   271   284   298   313   329
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS            128   531   565   865   955  1060  1177  1306  1450  1609  1786  1983  2201  2443
...;   ..i;..   ;;..;....   ;.... ;;... ;..... ;;... ;i  .................................... ",
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS           1956  3204  3968  4811  5199  5598  6814  8079  10036  12764 14974  17712 20864 24442 
........................................................................................................................  .  tA
TOTAL ASSETS                  19936 23363 27593 31736  55930 41323 49416 60348 72553 90424 109,748 130983 155103 179214                        cis
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
.......................
EQUITY
GOVERNENT INVESTMENT           2144  2147  2218  2318  2409  2409  2409  2409  2409  2409  2409  2409  2409  2409
GVERNMENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION  2766  276   2m     2777  2777  2777  2777  2777  2777  2777  2m    2M    2m     2M
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION           2..   151   650  1035  1578  2175  2831  3551  4340  5204  6151  7189  8326  9571
RETAINED EARNINGS              2787  4660  6500  8664  10543  11988 13764 15717 18355 23954 30257 37508 45121  52914
............................................... I..................................................................................--
TOTAL EQUITY                  7697  9724  12145  14794  1707 19349 21781  24454 27881  34344 41594 49883 58634 67671
LONG TERN DEBT                11018  11965  13295  14475  15979  18992 24448 32254 40396 50328 61123 72633 86185 99095
CONSUMER DEPOSITS                     189   211   236   275   318   366   421   484   556   640   736   846   973
INTEREST ACCRUED                      ...   784   867   951  1034  1117  1200  1283  1366  1449  1532  1615  1698
CURRENT LIABILITIES            1221  1485  1158  1364  1418  1630  1704  2020  2509  3830  4941  6199  7824  9777
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES  19936 23363 27593 31736 35930 41323 49415 60348 7553  90424 109747 130983 1551053 79214
DEBT AS X OF DEBT+EWUITY         59    55    52    49    48    50    53    57    59    59    60    59    60    59
EQUITY AS X OF OEBT+EQUtTY      41    45    48    51    52    50    47    43    41    41    40    41    40    41



ANNEX 4.4
Page I of 3
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
Income Statement
Sale of Electricity
The. forecast sale of electricity is based on projected plant expan-
sion and takes into account a reduction in system losses. Increase in sales
is forecast at an average annual rate of about 10 through FY93.
Average Revenue per kWh Sold
The average revenue per kWh sold reflects the fuel adjustment sur-
charge, as well as tariff increases necessary to meet the 4% Internal Cash
Generation Covenant.
Other Operating Revenue
Other operating revenue consists principally of miscellaneous serv-
ices such as transfer/replacement of meters, application fees, reconnection
of service, etc. These revenues are shown to increase by 10% per year based
on the increase in the number of consumers.
Power Purchases
Power would be purchased from KESC to meet peak period deficits based
on current institutional set up of WAPDA and KESC.
Fuel Cost
Increase in fuel costs have been assumed as follows:
(a) 45% per annum for raw gas and lOZ for purified gas up to PY88, and
1OX thereafter;
(b) HSD, fuel oil and crude oil at 101 per annum; and
(c) Coal at 1OX annually.



-58-
ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 3
Maintenance Expense
Maintenance expense is related to plant in service and is forecast at
2.42 of fixed assets in operation, taking into account past experience and
the increasing proportion of thermal plant in the system.
Operation and Administration Expense
Except for FY88, operation and administration expense is forecast to
increase by 25% annually, taking into account system expansion, inflation and
also past experience. An increase of 35% is taken for FY88 to reflect an
expected general wage increase.
Depreciation
WAPDA is applying a composite rate of depreciation of 3.5%. This
rate is realistic and has been used in the forecasts.
Other Income
Other income includes interest, sale of scrap and rental of office
space, and is shown to increase by 10% annually.
Payment to Government
WAPDA has been remitting Rs 20 million annually to Government for
assets earlier transferred to WAPDA. Forecasts show this payment continuing.
BALANCE SHEET
Cash
Cash balances are projected on the basis of about six weeks' cash
operating expense.
Inventories
Inventories are forecast on the basis of a percentage of fixed assets
in operation.   Taking into account past experience and WAPDA's efforts to
improve materials management, the following percentages are used for the
forecasts:
5.5 of fixed assets in FY87
5%   of fixed assets thereafter



-59-
ANNEX 4.4
Page 3 of 3
Accounts Receivables
Forecasts assume that, as in the past, WAPDA's accounts receivables
will be equivalent to two months' billings.
Other Current Assets
Other current assets include miscellaneous receivables, advances and
clearing accounts. Forecasts assume a SX annual increase.
Current Liabilities
Current liabilities include accounts payable, deposits for works to
be carried out for other agencies, contractor deposits, duties payable and
accrued salaries. Based on past experience, current liabilities are forecast
at between 25X and 40X of current assets.
Security Deposits
Security deposits are forecast to increase at 151 per annum.
Capital Contributions
Consumers' capital contribution assumed to increased by 10 annually.



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTNOR ITT
KOT A130 COtMBIE  CYCLE PROJECT
INVESTMENT PROGRM - FY86 TO FY94 I/
(RUPEES MILLION)
Est lasted         Ezqpenttare
Date   Totat Project Costs   Upto July 1965         FY86   FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94            Smourcs)
Of    ..........            ........         ..    -  -    1      1,    ...      ..    ...     ..    ..    .               Of
Project              Comissfion LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL        ForfoIn Ff rmo*
Genration
Wmredk unfts 5 8 6
OuotteGOn Turbineo (35 NW)        Nov. 1986      68    117    185     la     82    100      17    .......
Tsebtl unf tos9   10 C350 MW)    May  198    1000    830   1830    247    165    412    42            ...           ...           ... ....   .....
SutN Comined Cycle (450 NW)    oct. 1987   2116   2343   4459    285    89    1184    M7    900    458    522.....- ... ...                                  SI/c
GL"udnawt. 4 (210 NW)             Feb. 1966   1324    716   2040    272    620    892    488       35     .      .      -       .      .      .      .      CHINA
Kot AdNiA umi to I to 4 (400 NW)   Oct. 1966   130S   1410   2715     53    162    215   1542    710   300    179    ..FRG/ITALY
Nutton units I to 3 (630Nw)       Sep. 1991   4154   392    8074      25       0     25     48     50     55   1500  329    2439    939                     usR C?)
Jornwohouoit lCZS0OWi)            Dec. 1988   1870   1660   3530      22      0      22    193   1036   1085    500    387    -...              . ...       JAN
Kot Addu units 5to 8(400 wi)    Apr. 1968   1542   1855   3397    ---         0    ..       81    848   1246    688    200    ....                   ..     FRO/ITALY (?)
Kot AddbjCa. Cycle (200 NJ)       Nor. 199    1475   1275   2750    ..         0    ..      16    152    404    812    903    518                   *       IINR
Tarbteo un~its 11 -14 (1728 on)  Aug. 1990   6000   5000  11000    163         4    167    579   1923   2500   270    170     750            ......         wSCIPA/K
Falestabod Cor. Cycle (100 mw)   Dec. 1991    800    550   1350    --...    0    ..50 --                 --      S     400    760    314    ..      ..     tmU  C?)
OfesoetSets at ltitat(3  NW)         1989-90     13     17    30    ...        0    ..      19     11                                 .......
smnallNydets OM  NWi)                1968.89                          10      0      10    ..      40     88      0     8 
P61  of Major Mydols                                 25     10    35      34     75    91       35.       .     .-*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  0 3S 3  5  1 3
Low NeedN "ist(35NWi)             Jul. 1989    450    250    70        1      0       1      9    130    351    190     19                                  AD.--
Chitral Phase It                                                      ...     0    ---.
ChashtM  Low Need Nydet (256 NW)  Dec. 1992   1970   1570   3540    ..        0                           *     600    66      75    70       0             M     ?
Jimah Low Need Nyt (122 NW)   Dec. 1994                              ..       0    *-.                                        ...   100    S00   1000    A0B (?)
Tarbela units 15  17 (1200 "W)  Dec. 1994   50oo   4000   9000    ...         0                               .     .100   1400   2450   270                Ags/FitA/*p/cID,
Jrnohorosunit 2 (210MNW)          Jun. 1992   1457   1676   3133              0                           50    250    700    800   1000    332    ..       jApAN C?)
Nangta units 9 A10(ZDOONW)        Mar. 1992    664    726 .1390                0            48.   150   300    500    250    142    ..                      UNIOUN.
Lakchra CostC300NWi)PCII1                        48     93    141      7      0       7     34     50     49    --             ..     ......
Lokhro Cost (300 NW) Mining                    3030    935   3965    ---      0                                 11-870        910    800    980    295      138D C?)
Lakhra Coat (300 NW) Power Stnm.  Dec. 1992   3630   2765   6395    ..         0                                 25.'I    26   0    19       48     20            ?
Lokhra Coal (600 NW) Mining                    4340   1400   5740    ...      0...   ...                                     .100    600   1500   2000    WNIIDE.
Lakhra Cool (600 NW) Power $tn.  Dec. 1995   5160   4100   9260    ...        0                           .*30    100 120.60...DNT
Duk~iCost PC 1                                   42     53     95      18      0     18     22     28     13      5    ...    ..      ...    ..     ...     ...
Duki Coal PC t                                                        ...      0                                                                    ...     ...
Jomboo Ben Exp  (120  MM) Dec. 1992   4100   3100   720      ...      0                           0     00     40    2000   3000   5000   376       I33 (?)
top. Cool Power Stn. (2*500 NW)  Dec. 1996  11000l  OM0  1900        ...      0     ..     ..     ..     ..     ..     ..   100   850   1280  4400          UNIDEN.
Lahwre Thermi (800 NW)            mar. 1993   7500   600   13500    ...       I0.   1350   2000   3000   3100   2700   1350                                 UMIDENT.
Iqp. CooL Powe Stn. (2*500 NW)  mar. 1999  11000   600   19000    ...         0                          ..5.0. ..                    ..     s      200     UNIENT.
Sttotat Generation                            81058  62361 143419   1146   1942   3068   3969   598    6710   9936  1238S  14052  16043  1713   1925
I/ Does not incluude Kaiaeg Dam Project.
? Probable Source.
0*



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPNNT AUThORtTY
KCOT ADDU CONSINED CYCLE PROJECT
INVESTMENT PROGRAM  FY86 TO FY94
Estimated          Expenditures
oate   Total Project Costs    Upto JuLy 1985       fY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93  FY94               sourceWs
Of.1 ...                                           ..    ..      ..     ..      ..    ..      ..    ..      ..Of
Project              Comsission LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL TOTAL    foreign finanC0
........ .. .. .. .. .. .. ..   .. ..                                                                                   .. ..  .......
Transmission
Faisalabad-Nultan-Karachi (500-kY)  1986-87   2224   180   4033      94     26    120    M7    600    260    116    ...       .".                  .      FRANCE/JAPAN
2nd Tarbela-Falsalabad (500-kY)     198s-86    785    571   1356    381    195    576    90        3    ---   -.       .      .      .     ..     ..      CIDA
Faisalabad-Sahiwal (220-kY)         1985-86    216    154    370     23      0     23    125    120      57     32                                ..      ADO
Load Despatch Center-Nodernitation  1988-89           ... -*  ...     4       3      7    77    170   369    114                                  ...     AD
Ludweta-baudkhet (220/500-kY)       1990-91    575    465   1040    --       --    ..      14    10    26   2O0    264    264    122              ...         C?)
Lahore-jamshoro (500-kY)            1990-91   2857   2118  4975    ..       ..     ..      34    300   4.04   1350   1500    920    467           ...       10
2nd Guddu-Sfbl-Ouetta (220-kV)      1989-90    630    410   1040    - - ..          ..    --      12    60    114    114      60    ..    ...--   ..      FAG
Kot Addu-Loralai (220-kY)           1992-93    400    300    700    --      ..      ..     ..     ..     ..     .      16    82   205    246    25        UNIDENT.
3rd 500-kY Tagrbela                 1989-90    815   585   1400                           ...~   130    370    447    313    140    ...-       --  -      ADS
Mardan-Peshawar (220-kV)            1987-88    200    100    300    -               -.     33    200     29     30    ....                                FAG
06Wu-Khuzdar (220-kV)               1987-88    399    217    616    ..    .*        .      72   350    23       60    ...    ...  ---                      PRO
Kot Addu-Multan 1st Phase           1988-89    210     90    300    ..             ..      .      50    100     50     60     30     10    -      --      ADS /I M)
3rd Nuttan-Guudu (500-kY)           1994-95   1000    700   1700    ..                                                       ...- - -.      - --  21    84 318  UNJDENT.
2nd Tarbela-Lahore (500-kV)         1994-95   1000    700   1700    :-                                                ...  - -- -      ...    so5   200   So0  UNtOENT 
2nd Ludwela-Gatti (500-kV)          1994-95    IS0    120    300    -...-          -             ...   --       .      .-             5     50    100     UNIDENT.  ~
Kalabagh-Chasmam-ultan (500-kY)     1994-95   1280    770  2050    - -- -- -......-     -               - .    ...    50   8W0    600   350    250    UIET
sut,totaI Transmission                       12771   919  2188      502    224    726  21   1945   1905   2513  2317   2296   1480    930   1193
Subl-Transmission and Grid Stations          1135    4368  1572     51      768   1283   1303   1410  1470   1957  2000   2050   2100   2150  220          1811
Distributfon & RuraL ELect                   2083   2443  23296    739    218   957   1689   1800   2000   2900   3000   3200   3750  4000   4700    (3ID1/GOP
Diesel sets                                     24     20      44      0      0      0      0    44       0      0      0      0      0      0      0....
TotaL Investments with I.D.C                126061  78301 204362   2902   3152   6054   8178  11187  12085  17306  19702  21598  23373  25019  27348
Less: Interest During Construction                                                        378   436    550    637    757    865    997   1145   1272
Totat Investments without 1.D.C             126061  78301 204362   2902   3152   6054   7800  10751  1153S  1666   18945  20733  22376  23874  26076
? Probable Source.
'm



ANNEX 4.6
-62-                    Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Summary of Status and Plans for Strengthening Financial and
Commercial Operations Under the WAPDA/USAID Power DistributionPraject
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING
In carrying out financial institutional improvements under the Power
Distribution Project, the improvement objectives have been grouped into six
broad areas:
-  Confirmation of assets and liabilities to determine actual current
values, and correct as required any recorded amounts in the account-
ing records and financial statements.
-  Revaluation of capital (fixed) assets to determine present value and
development of functional depreciation rates for the major classes of
assets.
-  Determination of cost of service for the various classes of customers
and design of rates and tariffs based on these costs.
-  Modernization of present manual systems and procedures for near term
improvements in the accuracy, timeliness and efficiency of financial
operations and subsequent conversions to computer based systems.
-  Reorganization of financial operations to improve overall efficiency,
management control and responsiveness to financial information
requirements.
-  Upgrade the qualifications and capabilities of financial personnel at
all levels.
Work Accomplished as of September 1985
The confirmation of inventory valuations has been completed and will
be documented in a report. The data gathering phase of the confirmation of
WAPDA's current assets and current liabilities has been completed.
A Fixed Asset Accounting Manual that will provide the basis for
future fixed asset accounting -procedures has been developed and documented.
WAPDA's management information requirements have been determined and
documented. Improved financial and managerial reports have been developed
and designed.



-63-
ANNEX 4.6
Page 2 of 4
A pceliminary study of WAPDA's rates and tariffs is near completion
which will help in formulating recommendations fot tariff adjustments.
A proposal for reorganization of WAPDA's financial operations has
been developed, documented and is being presented to the Authority. A joint
consultant/WAPDA implementation team has been created to plan and carry out a
divisional reorganization pilot operation in two selected divisions. Staffing
requirements have been determined and procedure development and documentation
is well underway.
Project financial personnel consisting of WAPDA assigned personnel
and implementation staff are being trained via the sister Utility Exchange
Program (SUE). Five WAPDA officers have received training at American Elec-
tric Power (AEP) in the U.S.A., plus another five WAPDA financial officers
have been selected for this scheduled training.
Present Activities
A study to confirm current assets and current liabilities is in the
data analysis and report writing stage.
A short-term expatriate is currently working with the Principal
Technical Assistance Team (PTAT) staff and WAPDA personnel to develop
improved cash management and accounting systems.
The confirmation of WAPDA's capital (fixed) assets is underway, based
on a review of the available detailed records.
Depreciation rates for WAPDA's utility assets are being developed
through a joint effort by PTAT and the AEP home office staff.
Future Programs of Work
The following major programs will be completed during future periods
to achieve the financial objectives of the projects
Confirmation of current assets and current liabilities
Improve cash management
Verify and revalue capital (fixed) assets
Develop depreciation rates
Upgrade manual financial accounting systems and assist in development
of computer based systems



* -64-                   ANNEX 4.6
Page 3 of 4
Upgrade construction accounting procedures
Revise financial organization and improve staff capabilities
Develop cost of service, determine rate of return and design rates
Assist in the development of training programs for financial officers
and clerical staff
COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS
Present Activities
The commercial operations include all areas of work pertaining to
customer services (application processing, connection of service, meter
reading, billing and collection, disconnection and reconnection, and customer
relations). Those areas ot work currently underway are:
Fully computerizing and updating of WAPDA's commercial procedures
(Customer Accounting System).
Develop a system for computer monitoring of customer billing and
records to assist in controlling unauthorized use of energy.
Review of WAPDA's existing security deposit policy to provide recomr-
mendations for change.
Design of a model Customer Services Center.
The development of a Customer Energy Conservation Information
Program.
To date (September 1985), studies have been carried out in a number
of selected offices across WAPDA. An in-depth look at four revenue offices
and six sub-division offices has been completed. The information gathered
and observations made have been the basis for the work currently underway
cited above.
The commercial procedures are being revised with full emphasis on
computerization to increase the overall speed and accuracy of the billing
process which will significantly improve WAPDA's cash flow and customer
relations. It is also intended to provide control over the total customer
information system. The plan is to locate computers at each AEB and micro
computers at each revenue office for data entry.



-65-
ANNEX 4.6
Page 4 of 4
Future Program of Work
Future work will involve the computerization and revisions to the
commercial procedures and the establishment of a Customer Energy Conservation
Program.
A pilot program tied in with the WAPDA organization is planned for
June 1986 at the Muridke and Sheikhupura Divisions in the Sheikhupura Circle.
This program, to test out the revisions and computerization of the commercial
procedures, will require about four to six months to complete. This will
allow many of the potential problems to be resolved before wider implementa-
tion.
The work on the Energy Conservation Management Program will continue
well into 1986.  The initial team will be expanded to include staff for each
AEB. Staff selection, training and actual program materials will carry into
the second quarter of 1986 prior to implementation.



/uerl6/asppt /ales /ELWA/Pakistsn/annaRS.X51/12-26-85
PAKISTA
*OT AMDU CUIBD CYCLI POM  R
Actual aud ftpiected Poer DeMd Ed EnemA  FAIe,
CUAPD System)
-Atual-  --~-utit                                                                 e      d     -
Fm       m81   .T$2    nF8        "84      FMS    FM          M7       "a                         ml m   .11 2      _
Installed Capacity  (1W1)  2,685    3,254   3,254   3.954    3,954    4,339    4,612    5,412    5,412   6,178   8,266    6,266    9,416    9,416
Peak Demand         (tN)   2,076    2,473    2,846    3,163    3,437    3,791    4,121    4,517    4.95S    5,436    5,963    6,541    7,176    7,872
Luergy Generated     (Glih)
Rydel                     8,718    9,046    9,526   11,367   11,828   13,475   15,106   15,290  15,855   16.187   16.836   18,336   19,136   19,246
Theral (t import)   3 4M         4,160    S  242   5J11O   6.224    5.305    6.121    8.220  10.319   1          13.792   14-29   16A591  ALZ
TOTAL GURATION (Glh) 12,124   13,206   14,768   16,477   18,052   18.780   21,227    23,510  26,174   28.769  30,628   33,329   35,727   37,171
Energy sales        (Gllh)
Domestic                  1,564    1,858   2,394    2,866    3,470    3.887    4,438    4,970   5,567    6,235    6,983    7,621    8,760    9,811
Comercial                  389       44S      574     634      739      796      868       946  1,031    1.124    1,225    1,335    1,455    1.5E6
Industrial               3,154    3,482    3,974   4,417    4,708    5,061    5,516      6,013   6,554    7.144    7,757    8,488    9,252   10,086
Agricultural              2,057    2,125   2,357    2,546    2,663    2,783    2,950     3,127   3,314    3,513    3.724    3,9"    4,185    4,436
Public Ligbting              50       58       75      78       88       93      102       119    130       136      147      173      187     21
sulk supply                 900    1,056      872    1,002    1,050    1,092    1,206    1.332   1,470    1,624    1,793    1,980    2,187    2,415
Traction                     46       44      42       44       44      *4484                       57       59       62       6S       69       '
TOTAL SALES             8,160    9,068   10,288   11,593   12,762   13,756   15,708   17,973   20,154   22,152   23,586   25,663   27,510   21,622



ANNEX 5.2 -
-67-                                 Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
KOT ADDU COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Assumption for Rate of Return on Project
1.      Capital Cost:  Investment costs for the project, amounting to
US$122.86 million, are incurred as follows:*
Year                     Base Cost
(US$ million)
1                          0.97
2                          8.72
3                         19.27
4                         35.35
5                         37.83
6                         20.72
2.      Local Costs were expressed in their equivalent border pricing using
the following conversion factors: Material - 1.1; Skilled Labor - 1.06; and
Unskilled labor - 0.63.
3.      Annual Operating and Maintenance Costs were calculated at 5% of
capital costs.
4.      There is no addition fund cost for running the converted combined
cycle plants.
5.      Additional Generation was computed on the basis of the 60X load
factor, for the first ten years, thereafter on the basis of 35% load factor.
6.      Revenues:  Assuming a loss of 15% because of proximity of generating
plant to load centers, revenues were calculated on incremental sales valued
using the average revenue of PRs 0.73 (1985 prices), which is assumed as a
proxy for consumers' willingness to pay.



INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN ON PROJECT
FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98 FY99 - FYOI   FY02 - FY15
INFLATION RATE-LOCAL(Z)                 1O.0    8.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    6.0    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5
INFLATIN RATE-FOREIGN(Z)                 3.2    7.0    7.3    7.6    7.7    6.0    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5            --
CONSTANT (1995) PRICES(US S NLN.)
INVESTNENT COSTS                         0.9    q.8   14.3   26.1   27.9   15.5              ----   ----  ---   ----   ----   ----                    -- -
LOCAL COSTS                              0.7    5.6    3.6    7.2    9.3    5.0   ----    ---        -
RATERIAL                            0.6    4.7    3.0    6.0    6.9    4.1   ----    ----     -
SKILLED LkB0R                       0.0    0.3    0.2    0.4    0.5    0.3                    ----                                                 --
UNSMILLED LABOR                     0.1  0.6  0.4  0.8  0.9  0.5                                           -- --
FORE16N COSTS                            0.2    4.2   10.7   18.9   19.6   10.5   ----    ----   ----    ----   ----    ----   ----         ----          ----
IN BDRDER(1985) PRICESIUS $ NILN.)
LOCAL COSTS                              0.8    5.9    3.8    7.5    8.7    5.2   ----    ----   - --    ----   ----    ----
WATERIAL                            0.7    5.1    3.3    6.6    7.6    4.5   -- -    - - -    ----    ----    ---    ----    ------
SKILLED LABOR                       0.0    0.4    0.2    0.5    0.5    0.3   ----    - - -    ----    ----    ----    - - -    ----
UNSKILLED LABOR                     0.1    0.4    0.3    0.5    0.6    0.3   ----    ----   ---    ----    ----    ----    -- -
ECOOMNIC COSTS (US S NILLION)
INVESTRENT COSTS                         1.0   10.1   14.5   26.4   28.3   15.7   ---    ---    ----    ----    ----    ----    -----
PIPELINE COSTS                           0.6    1.3    1.9    1.9    1.3   ----    -- -        ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ---
OPERATION & NAINTENANCE COSTS            0.0    0.6    1.3    2.6    4.0    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.9             4.8           4.8
TRASNISSION & DISTRIBUTION COSTS           0       0      0      0      0       0    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2           2.2           2.2
TOTAL COSTS            1.6   12.0   17.7   30.9   33.6   20.5    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    ?.0            7.0           7.0
AVERAGE REENlUE/KNh(CURRENT US 4)    0.0465 0.0537 0.0672 0.0848 0.0935 0.1023 0.1023 0.1023 0.1023 0.1023 0.1023 0.1023 0.1023           0.1023        0.1023
AVERAGE REVEYNE(KWh(CONSTANT US *1   0.0443 0.0468 0.0543 0.0637 0.0653 0.0670 0.0637 0.0609 0.0503 0.0558 0.0534 0.0511 0.0489           0.0489        0.0489
INCRE TAL SALESUIILLtN KNhb              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  893.0  893.0  893.0  893.0  893.0  893.0 893.0           893.0            521
BENEFITS(US S  ILLION)                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   35.6   35.6   35.6   35.6   35.6   35.6   35.6            35.6            21
NET 8ENEFITS(US $ NILLION)              -1.6  -11.9  -17.7  -30.9  -33.6  -20.5   28.6   28.6   28.6   28.6   29.6   29.6   29.6            29.0            14        A
INTERNAL ERR ON PROJECT =        15.2I



r       F,m9M9eA  .LAHORE RING     U 5 5 R       /      ACHINA        '   \            ." ' 
>  \kAIA SHAH KAKU                         f VIA, oKAlee . r  J ,                 f           ACm- --, 9,.
Z '  Af  ANISTAN                           7                 -                           C9_ .f _9 11
4.                                                                                      r ,uT  9999995  9,
INDIA                                   7 4 1          ~    i~"n~ 
6            195 KOT       1<14'                                      W s@>^N               j    v
FAISALABAD 2ING                I                                {    ~~      '                    6 r            C-*
MULT
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
/-   /   Aslul  '///F/Xt A/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  
CO
919T5*      (.  \.\  C,,                                                E               ,0
GATT,
-,                              ."                          .                 --             .
f.
30'                                                                                                                                                 3059
D 1. \~9~   --                                             IOTA/PA IS A
0 
0
0~~~ KOT ADDU COMBINED
o        599)9099                                                         ..K,-D,              CYCLE POWER PROJECT
0                                               0: O   \sX  ev,<      J   /       Main Power Stations and Transmission Lines
i   X  t//                  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XITN            ORO     PPOWE R    POWER
TRANSMiISSION LINES
99/132 kV
2W       7I                                                                                                              GRID STATIONS26
2e' tS    f      lNEW 5,10 IV
( \Sg\> ,   STi\4   (   (   EXTENSIONS Of EXISTING 500 kV
-  \ \  <    J^i55 iORi,  -                   i                                     ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 220 kV
LSRA                  0'\~.-                                                               132 kV
j:H                                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POYWER STATIONjS
cmXFC3<^tA  D   \;   _     _    RoEYECTSiC
THERMAL 
A                A                              STEAM
0                    3 \   D   rT   COMOINEDCYCLE
KARACHI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~NUCtlEAR
POWER PLA <N        ,-               v
INTERNATIONAL UOJNDARIES
1 '          < ~            >sJ09  LGo200  l  KILOMETERS
_C                         ^        J,l,   <    _.                                                              iOO                     2tONl00 MLESC
_L                                                                 7 _'- 



