Dos-nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4410-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RPECONZIRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.0 MILLION
TO MAURITIUS
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
March 18, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only'in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disco6ed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Mauritian Rupee (M Rs)
Calendar 1985          June 1986
US$  1.00                 15.44               13.400
M Rs 1.00                 0.06                 0.07
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP   African, Caribbean and Pacific Countries
ADB   African Development Bank
BOM   Bank of Mauritius
DBM   Development Bank of Mauritius
DC    Development Certificate
EPZ   Export Processing Zone
MEDIA Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP   Sugar Action Plan
Government of Mauritius Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURlTIUS
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:        Mauritius
Amount:          US$25 million equivalent
Interest Rate:  Standard Variable
Commitment
Charge:          Standard
Terns:           17 years, including four years of grace.
Colender:        African Development Bank (UA 30 million equivalent)
Proj ect
Objectives and
Description:    The proposed loan would support deepening of the Govern-
ment's program of industrial policy reform aimed at
providing additional support to efficient export-oriented
industries, while gradually phasing out the incentives
offered to inefficient import substitution enterprises.
Specific measures have already been taken to reduce protec-
tion and increase efficiency in import substitution manu-
facturing. Measures to be implemented under the program
include: a) reduction of maximum tariffs on imports from
preferential sources, except for three items, from 600
percent to 127 percent before effectiveness, and to 107
percent including the three previously excluded items,
before release of the second tranche; b) adoption of a
program for the simplification of the tariff schedule; c)
discontinuation of the incentive scheme for import substi-
tuting enterprises save for exceptional cases; d) improve-
ments in the design and functioning of the drawback system
for exporters; and e) reduction in the number of items
under price controls. The foreign exchange provided by the
loan would be used to finance the CIF cost of a wide range
of imports.
Benefits:        Through its support of policy reforms, the loan would help
increase the efficiency of Mauritius' import-substitution
manufacturing subsector, support the further development of
export enterprises, and further encourage the efficient
allocation of resources in the economy. The increased
availability of foreign exchange for the importation of
industrial imports would help the expansion of industrial
output and exports.
Risks:           Obstacles could appear during the implementation stages of
the tariff reform due to: (i) the Government's concern
about the possibility of adverse effects of the tariff
reductions on fiscal revenues and foreign exchange
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
reserves; and (ii) pressures generated by economic groups
affected by the tariff reduction. This risk is acceptable
because: (i) the Government has shown its commitment to a
program of gradual structural adjustment that Included some
polltically sensitive actions, such as total elimination of
import quotas, reduction in maximum price controls and
subsidies, and continuation of a policy of wage restraint;
(ii) the advantage of the export-led strategy in terms of
growth possibilities and employment generation has by now
been clearly established in Mauritius; and (iiI) the
present favorable economic conditions, together with the
proposed loan, would allow the economy to absorb the
revenue and balance of payments effects of tariff reduc-
tions. Moreover, the program provides for adequate
monitoring of the impact of the tariff reform through its
various stages.
Estimated
Disbursement:   The proceeds of the loan would be made available in two
tranches. It is anticipated that the loan would be
disbursed over an 18 to 24 month period. The first tranche
would be available upon loan effectiveness and the second
tranche approximately 9 to 12 months later. Disbursement
of the second tranche would be conditional Dn a satisfac-
tory review of progress on the policy reform program as
described in the Government's Statement of Industrial
Policy. Specific conditions for the release of the second
tranche include reduction of maximum import tariffs to 107
percent, simplification of the tariff structure, and
implementation of the reforms to the drawback system.
Appraisal
Report:          This is a combined President's Report and Staff Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MAURITIUS FOR
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
1.       I submlt the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Mauritius for the equivalent of US$25 million. The loan would have
a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard varlable
interest rate. The proposed lcan would support policy reforms to be
introduced over two years to facilitate the further expansion of Mauritius'
export-oriented manufacturing sector. The program of reforms would also be
supported by a parallel UA30 million loan equivalent from the African
Development Bank with a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
7.64 percent interest per annum, plus a statutory commission of 1.0 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Mauritius - Adjustment and
Growth" (No. 5533-MAS) was issued in April 1985. This section incorporates
the findings of an updating economic mission that visited Mauritius in July
1986.
Economic Structure
3.        Mauritius is a densely populated island, with smaller outer
islands situated in the Indian Ocean. Its economy is dominated by sugar
production. Despite significant expansion of other sectors since the early
1970s, sugar still occupies around 90 percent of the cultivable area and
accounts for about 50 percent of export earnings. The level of economic
activity is therefore highly sensitive to fluctuations in sugar production
and exports.
4.        With a GNP per capita of about US$1,070 in 1985, Mauritius has
the standard of living of a middle-income developing country. Standards of
nutrition, health care, and general education greatly exceed those of
neighboring countries. The literacy rate is over 80 percent, life
expectancy at birth is about 65 years, and basic needs are extensively
covered. The main island has a population of 1.0 million (1985) on a land
area of about 2,000 km2, just over half of which is cultivable. The less-
developed outer islands are dispersed over a wide area of the Indian Ocean;
the largest of them is 400 miles east of Mauritius, with a population of
about 30,700 (1985).
5.        Mauritius' population is a mosaic of various ethnic groups.
About 68 percent is of Indian origin and about 29 percent consists of
Franco-Mauritians and people of African or mixed descent. The
Sino-Mauritian population accounts for the remaining 3 percent. The ethnic
and political complexity contributes to the country's vitality and compe-
titive spirit. The Government functions in a system of parliamentary
democracy.



- 2 -
6.        Mauritius enjoys a pleasant tropical climate, which makes it
attractive for tourists. However, the country is subject to cyclones
between late December and March, which can cause severe damage. The
absence of mineral resources and the distance of Mauritius from major
markets affect the potential for economic development and condition the
choice of economic activities. Mauritius does not lie on the main sea
routes and maritime transport costs are higher than in countries competing
in similar markets.
Economic Expansion to 1979
7.       Mauritius' economic performance during most of the 1970s was
remarkably successful. With an open economy and an export-oriented
development strategy since about 1970, the Government encouraged the
production of cash crops (sugar and tea) for export, stimulated the
development of export manufacturing industries and tourism, and provided
infrastructure for the growing needs of the economy. The unprecedented
increase in sugar prices in 1973 and 1974, and the rapidly growing
manufactured exports helped the economy to grow by more than 10 percent per
annum in 1972-77. During this period, gross domestic savings increased
substantially and helped accelerate growth in the manufacturing,
construction and service sectors. The growth in production and exports was
accompanied by a rapid fall in unemployment to about half of its peak level
in the early 1970s. Social objectives were pursued through public works
programs, minimum wage regulations, public provision of health care and
education, food subsidies and selective controls over consumer prices.
8.        Between 1976 and 1979, a sharp turnaround in the country's
international terms of trade, following the decline of sugar prices in 1976
and the second petroleum price increase in 1979, led to rapid deterioration
in the balance of payments. Foreign exchange reserves fell, and Hauritius
resorted to the Eurodollar market to finance most of its development
requirements. The balance of payments difficulties were further aggravated
by an expansionary fiscal policy. During 1976-79 an ambitious public
investment program was initiated that increased capital spending at an
annual rate of 40 percent while current expenditures grew over 30 percent
per year. Growing current account deficits of the balance of payments
were financed largely by increasing recourse to external borrowing on
non-concessionary terms. This, in turn, resulted in a rapid increase in
Mauritius' debt service obligations. During 1976-79 the country's external
debt more than tripled and debt service rose from 1 percent of exports of
goods and services in 1976 to nearly 10 percent in 1979. This period was
also marked by a deceleration of GDP and export growth. The domestic
inflation rate rose to nearly 30 percent and the unemployment rate reached
23 percent, a critically high level.
Adjustments Since 1979
9.        Stabilization.  In 1979 the Government embarked on a
stabilization and structural adjustment program supported by the IMF and
the Bank. Since 1979, five consecutive stand-by arrangements have been
successfully implemented. Central to these programs has been the adoption
of appropriate exchange rate policies, reductions in consumer subsidies,
wage restraint, restrictive credit and monetary policies, reductions in the
overall fiscal deficit and maintenance of a liberal



- 3 -
system of trade and payments. Despite unfavorable exogenous factors,
including adverse weather conditions in 1980 and 1983, a world-wide
recession in 1980-82, and continued deterioration in the country's terms of
trade, progress under the stabilization programs has been remarkable. The
overall budgetary deficit was narrowed from about 14 percent of GDP in FY
1981 to 5 percent in FY 1986; the external current account deficit was
reduced from about 13 percent of GDP in 1981 to 3.5 percent in 1985, and
the domestic inflation rate dropped from about 30 percent in 1979 to around
4.5 percent at present. On the supply side, the most remarkable
development has been the resumption of fast growth in manufactured
exports. With the successful completion of the last stand-by arrangement
at the end of August 1986, Mauritius does not currently have a financial
arrangement with the Fund. Nevertheless, the IMF continues to provide
technical advice to Government on economic matters within the context of
the Article IV Consultation process. At the request of the authorities, a
special technical assistance mission visited Mauritius in December 1986, to
help simplify and ease the administration of exchange controls and of
domestic credit. The next Article IV Consultation mission is scheduled
tentatively for June 1987.
10.       Structural Adjustment.  Mauritius' economic imbalances during the
post sugar-boom period resulted from the country's overdependence on a
single commodity, sugar, and the Government's attempts to stimulate the
economy through expansionary policy in response to rising unemployment.
With the dramatic turnaround in the country's terms of trade during
1976-79, it became apparent that, for sustained growth of output and
employment and a viable balance of payments in the medium-term, Mauritius
had to further promote and diversify its exports, both in agriculture and
industry, and encourage efficient import substitution in the food and
energy sectors.  The Government's medium-term structural adjustment
program, introduced in the early 1980s, aimed primarily at encouraging
growth based on export-oriented manufacturing and tourism, and to a lesser
extent on import substitution in food, energy and some manufactured
products.
11.       In agriculture, the critical importance of sugar will continue,
although future growth of output and employment will depend increasingly on
non-sugar activities. Sugar will continue to provide a large share of the
necessary foreign exchange and domestic resources for sustained growth of
output and investment elsewhere in the economy. After the decline of sugar
prices in 1976, the country had to face the declining financial
profitability of the sugar industry (e.g., large estates with milling
facilities) and the low productivity of smallholder planters. The
Government's Sugar Action Plan (SAP), issued in 1985, focuses on improving
technical efficiency and reducing production costs both in milling and cane
growing operations. Mauritius is encouraging agricultural diversification
as a complement rather than a substitute for sugar production. The key
objectives to be achieved in agricultural diversification are to reach
self-sufficiency in selected foodcrops; redLce dependence upon imported
meat and milk; develop all lands to the limit of their maximum
productivity; and establish a framework of marketing facilities,
institutions and price stabilization mechanisms to provide improved support
and security for producers.
12.       In industry, promotion of export-oriented manufacturing has been
the main thrust of Government policy since 1970 and remains its major
priority. Given the limited prospects for growth of the sugar subsector,



the small size of the domestic market and the still sizable (but declining)
pool of unemployed workers, export-oriented manufacturing continues to
offer the strongest potential to foster growth and add to foreign exchange
earnings. The set of medium-term policy reforms for manufacturing industry
undertaken in recent years and those to be supported by the proposed loan
focus on improving Mauritius' competitiveness, extending the system of
export incentives to all firms capable of export activities and attracting
new investment and technology to export-oriented manufacturing. In
tourism, the Government's primary objectives are to increase foreign
exchange earnings and generate additional employment. This expansion would
be obtained througb investment promotion and improved air access to
Mauritius.
Recent Trends
13.       After a period of low growth (about 0.4 percent p.a.) during
1979-83, the economy rebounded strongly in 1984. Gross Domestic Product
increased by 4.6 percent in 1984 and by 6.5 percent in 1985. Preliminary
estimates Indicate that in 1986 economic growth will again be around six
percent. The strong upsurge in economic activity reflects the expansion of
world trade since 1983 and the favorable impact of domestic economic
policies pursued since 1979 in stabilizing the economy and in encouraging
export-led industrialization and tourism.
14.       The rapid growth has been led primarily by export processing
zone (EPZ) industries which grew by 30 percent per annum in real terms
since 1984. As noted above (paras. 10 to 12), the Government's
stabilization and adjustment policies were highly successful in restoring
and improving the country's export competitiveness through appropriate
exchange rate and wage policies and in attracting new investment. In
addition, significant new policy measures have been introduced to improve
capital efficiency, reduce the incentives granted to import substituting
activities and allocate a growing share of investment to export-oriented
and labor-intensive lines of industrial production. These policy actions,
together with an active investment promotion campaign carried out since the
early 1980s, have greatly contributed to the ongoing export and investment
boom in the export-manufacturing sector. A more detailed analysis of the
performance of, and policies affecting, the manufacturing sector is
presented in Part II.
15.       Other sectors contributing to rapid economic expansion have been
the sugar industry and tourism. The sugar sector recovered in 1985 from a
below-normal production level in 1984. There are indications that
Mauritius had a bumper crop in 1986, with a production level estimated at
more than 700,000 tons. In tourism, the country has moved ahead
effectively with measures to strengthen the promotion of Mauritius as a
destination for tourists, to open up new air access points abroad and to
expand existing room capacity. As a result, tourist arrivals have
increased substantially and value added in tourism grew by 15 percent in
real terms in 1984 and around 12 percent since then, Since 1984, there has
also been rapid, though less impressive, expansion of tea production and
the production of domestic food crops.
16.       On the demand side, there was an upturn in capital formation in
1984 which continued in 1985 and 1986. Gross fixed investment is



estimated to have increased by six percent in 1984, 10 percent In 1985, and
by nearly 12 percent in 1986, in real terms. Most of the increase Is
attributable to substantial new construction in industrial estates and
hotel expansion. In order to meet the pressing demand for additional
factory space in the industrial sector, eight new industrial estates have
been constructed throughout the island since 1984. There has been also a
healthy revival ot investment In tourism. With the substantial recovery of
domestic Income, which has been rising faster than consumption, gross
domestic savings have increased to 21 percent of GDP in 1985. The savings
ratio is believed to have risen further, to nearly 23 percent, in 1986.
17.       There has been a notable change in the structure of the Mauritian
economy since 1979, as a result of the significant progress achieved in
stimulating export manufacturing. Despite a good crop year In 1985, the
share of the sugar sector, including sugar milling, in total GDP declined
from 17 percent in 1979 to about 11 percent in 1985, while the share of
total manufacturing, excluding sugar milling, increased from 11 to over 17
percent in this period.
18.       Rapid economic growth has also generated an unprecedented
increase in employment. Of the total labor force of around 360 thousand,
190 thousand were employed in large establishments (more than 10 workers)
in the formal sector in 1983; employment in large establishments was
expected to reach 233 thousand by the end of 1986. The rate of
unemployment, currently estimated at 12 percent, is expected to decline
further In 1987. Nearly all of the new jobs generated during 1983-86 were
in the export processing industries. The manufacturing sector as a whole
now provides more than one third of total wage employment in Mauritius,
significantly exceeding the shares of the sugar industry and the public
sector as traditional employers. The growing economic activity, together
with the increased participation of women in the labor force (accounting
for over one third of total employment in large establishments) has been
instrumental in reducing poverty.
Economic Prospects
19.       Impressive export performance over the past several years and
effective demand management policies pursued to stabilize the economy have
led to a marked improvement in Mauritius' balance of payments. The recent
decline in petroleum prices and international interest rates also
contributed to this improvement. The current account of the balance of
payments turned into a small surplus in 1986, for the first time since the
sugar-boom period. For the year ending June 1986, the current account
surplus was around US$30 million (2.5 percent of GDP) whereas the overall
balance of payments surplus was nearly US$50 million (4.3 percent of GDP).
This led to a replenishment of the country's foreign exchange reserves,
which had been precarious up to 1986, to two months of imports.
20.       There remain, however, some underlying structural weaknesses in
the economy: it is still overdependent on exports of sugar and garments
and is vulnerable to exogenous factors such as adverse weather conditions,
fluctuations in world markets and prices, and protectionist tendencies in
the industrial countries. A significant shortfall in sugar production and



- 6 -
exports or sharp contraction in export markets and prices for garments,
could lead to a rapid deterioration In the country's balance of payments.
There is accordingly a need to further diversify and expand the country's
export base.
21.       Sugar exports have limited marke% prospects.  Mauritius' quota
with the EEC is fixed at 505 thousand tons, with no scope for expansion.
The U.S. quota, which was 24 thousand tons in 1985, was cut sharply to 14
thousand tons in 1986. Domestic consumption of sugar in 4auritius
increased from 29 thousand tons in 1961 to an average of 37 thousand tons
by the late 1970s, and has stayed at this level since then. Sugar produc-
tion in excess of what these three markets absorb has to be sold on the
world mauket, where the price outlook for 1987 and onwards remains unfavor-
able. Although prices in the EEC and US markets are three to four times
above world market prices, they are expected to decline in real terms.
Prices in the EEC market are expected to increase by only one percent per
annum until 1990, less than the expected Inflation rate in the Community.
In the US, the domestic sugar prlce is already below the market stabiliza-
tlion price of 21.5 cents per pound, and is expected to decline further, in
real terms.
22.       Manufactured goods exports, which have been growing rapidly, are
concentrated in garments and are highly import-dependent. The high concen-
tration\An one line of production makes Mauritius' export earnlngs
vulnerable to fluctuations in export markets and prices; their heavy
dependence on imported inputs, on the other hand, puts a premium on the
availability of foreign exchange. A more comfortable foreign exchange
reserve position is therefore needed to ensure that the growth of manufac-
tured exports can be sustained even in the face of setbacks to export
earnings from sugar and tourism that could result from cyclones or other
exogenous shocks.
23.       In the short term, during 1987-88, Mauritius' growth and balance
of payments performance should remain favorable. In a generally favorable
world economic environment, the export processing industry is expected to
continue to grow rapidly, although at a somewhat slower pace. With
continued growth of tourism, stable sugar export volumes and current petro-
leum prices, real growth of GDP is expected to be around 5 percent per year
during 1987-88.
24.       In the medium term, during 1989-95, for sustained growth and a
viable balance of payments position, Mauritius will need to continue to
diversify Its export structure, both in agriculture and industry. In agri-
culture, current government efforts to diversify away from sugar to non-
sugar agriculture will need to be accelerated. ln industry, product diver-
sification and vertical integration will need to be encouraged. This will
require that the industrial policy improvements, that began in the early
1980s and continued under the proposed loan, be sustained. Moreover, given
the current and potential scarcity of resources -- land, capital and
skilled labor -- the efficiency of resource use throughout the island will
need to be improved. The rate of growth in exports of manufactured goods
i? projected to be around six percent per year during 1989-92.



- 7 -
25.       Bank balance of paymencn  projections Indicate that with a real
CDP growth rate of about 5 percent per year In 1987-88 and 4 percent per
year thereafter, mnd with a growth rate of manufactured exports of 15
percent in 1987 and 6 percent per year thereafter, the current account
would ohow modest surpluses In 1987-88 and modest deficits through 1991.
Allowing for the expocted disbursements of existing loans and new not
direct invastment in Mauritius, the couintry would require about US$100
million per year in new commitments ln 1987-883 and US$125 million per year
In 1989-91.  Such borrowing would permit nn nccumulation of gross foreign
exchange reserves to a level equtivalent to 15 weeks of import coverage and
would facilitate the avoidance of recourse to excessive short-torm commer-
cial borrowing.
26.       At the end of 1985, total contracted puiblic and publicly
guaranteed medium- and long-term debt came to US$560 million, of whichi
US$385 million was disbursod and outstanding. An nddttional US$180 million
was due the IMF. Of the US$385 million outstanding, 23 percent was owed to
financial institutions and suppliers, 30 percent to bilateral creditors,
and 47 percent to multinational creditors including the IBRD and IDA, AfDB,
EIB, and others. The IBRD and IDA held one third. During 1985, the
external debt service -- including IMF repurchases and charges --
represented 23 percent of exports of goods and services. The debt service
ratio declined to 17 percent in 1986, however, and is txpected to decline
further to around 12 percent by 1993.
27.       The IBRD share of external debt service, including the IMF
service, is projected to climb from 11 percent in 1985 to 20 percent in
1988-90, and the IBRD share of disbursed and outstanding debt is expected
to hover around 25 percent through 1990. These indicators of financial
exposure must be interpreted within the context of a rapidly improving
balance of payments situation. Mauritius continues to be fully credit-
worthy and is able to absorb and service additional foreign loans. The
marked decline in the country's external debt service ratio, together with
the modest absolute amount of IBRD money involved, make it feasible to
continue lending to Mauritius without encountering significant portfolio
risk.
PART II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Sector Background and Performance
28.       The contribution of the manufacturing sector to the national
economy increased rapidly over the past 15 years. The share of
manufacturing in GDP increased from 8 percent in 1970 to about 17 percent



In 1985; industrial employment grew from about 8,000 in 1970 to 75,000 in
March 1986 (from 6 to 34 percent of total employment) and, moot Impor-
tantly, export. of manufactured goods, almost non-existent in 1970,
accounted for about 5U percont of total export. in 1985.  The Import-subs-
titution subsector is still an important contributor to manufacturing value
added (45 percent), but it is losing ground to the more dynamic export
subsector which now provides employment to over 80 percent of the country's
Industrial workers and to 27 percent of total employment.
29.       Until the mid-sixttes, Mauritius' industrial development was
negligible. In 1964, the Government introduced an Incentive scheme to
encourage the developmont of import substitution activities. This scheme
granted tax lholidays on corporate and personal income taxes, priorly
access to credit, duty free entry of capital goods, and protectton from
import competition through import tariffs and quotas. The incentive scheme
did not have an immediate impact on industrial growth; only a few enter-
prises were set up to service the sugar industry or to provide simple goods
for domestic consumption, and the country's industrial development remalned
modest until the early seventies.
30.       In 1970, the Government enacted the Export Processinig Zones Act
aimed at attracting local and foreign private Investors into export proces-
sing activities with the objective of emulating the successful experience
of Asian exporters such as Hong Korg, Singapore and Taiwan. This scheme
granted investors in export-oriented enterprises additional benefits such
as free repatriation of capital and dividends, duty free entry of Inputs,
and greater flexibility than for producers for the local market to dismlss
workers. The Government also sought to facilitate industrial investment by
providing readily available developed land and factory space through the
Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM).
31.       From 1970 to 1977, value added in manufacturing grew at 17 per-
cent p.a. in real terms. High world sugar prices and exceptional sugar
crops in 1973 and 1974 increased local demand for manufactured goods,
stimulating the growth of import substitution industries. The new package
of incentives for export industries, on the other hand, proved remarkably
successful in attracting foreign investors to Mauritius, and in encouraging
local entrepreneurs -- many of whom had a base in the sugar industry -- to
invest in manufacturing. Manufactured exports, which were almost non-
existent in 1970, accounted for nearly 24 percent of total exports in
1977. This rapid expansion, mostly of knitwear and garments, was facili-
tated by the free access to the European Economic Community of goods made
in Mauritius under the Yaounde and Lom& Conventions and by Mauritius'
favorable ratio of labor productivity to cost as compared with other export
countries.
32.       Manufacturing production for export became the main source of new
jobs in Mauritius, creating nearly 4,000 new jobs per annum during the 1974
to 1976 period compared to 470 new jobs per annum created by the import
substitution subsector. In value added terms, however, the import substi-
tution subsector remained the main contributor to manufacturing value added
(over 70 percent) during this fast growth period.



- 9 -
33.       The decline in economic growth during the late 1970s, after the
1976 drop in sugar prices, signalled a period of lower investment in manu-
facturing. The sharp reduction of funds available locally, combined with
wage increases not related to productivity gains, an overvalued exchange
rate and falling domestic demand, made Mauritius a less attractive place to
invest. Sluggish economic conditions in Mauritius' OECD markets in the
late 1970s and the rise of protectionism in industrial countries further
clouded Mauritius' prospects for industrial growth. Consequently, invest-
ment in manufacturing steadily declined in constant terms to reach, in the
early 1980s, about one third of its 1976 peak level. Although the decrease
in investment was more pronounced in the import substituting subsector,
four fifths of the fixed investment in manufacturing in the 1977-83 period
still went to import substitution activities.
34.       Moderate growth in manufacturing continued, however,  during the
economic recession. At the height of the recession, between 1975 and 1982,
production for the local market grew at an annual average rate of 3
percent, while production for export continued growing at 12 percent per
annum. The only drop in export-oriented manufacturing (about 3 percent)
took place in 1982. In 1983 manufacturing exports jumped by nearly 9
percent growth in real terms. Net employment creation in the export sub-
sector also continued growing during the 1977-83 period, at an average of
1,000 jobs annually, while new employment opportunities in production for
the local market virtually ceased.
35.       Within the Structural Adjustment Program of the early 1980s
(paras. 31-13), the Government took several additional policy measures to
stimulate the recovery of industrial exports, including agreements to avoid
double taxation of dividends from export enterprises with the U.K., France
and India, and an Export Credit Guarantee scheme, managed by DBM, to
provide coverage to commercial banks in Mauritius against default by
exporters. This scheme was complemented in 1982 by an Export Credit
Insurance scheme to cover the risk of non-payment by foreign buyers. Also,
the Government intensified its export promotion activities abroad and
import substituting firms were made eligible for the drawback of duties
paid on the import content of any exports they might make. By 1984,
Mauritius was, accordingly, better poised than most LDCs to capitalize on
the recovery in world trade.
B. Recent Developments
36.       The policy changes and promotional efforts paid off.  In 1984 and
1985 export oriented manufacturing grew by about 30 percent per annum in
real terms. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1986 manufacturing
exports may have grown by 25 percent in real terms. Manufactured exports
surpassed sugar as Mauritius' main exports for the first time in 1985. At
the same time, import substitution manufacturing grew at a modest 3 percent
per annum in the last three years.
37.       The 1984-86 export boom was generated by a surge of new export
enterprises and the expansion of a number of existing ones. The number of
exporting enterprises operating in Mauritius increased from 146 by December
1983 to 255 by September 1985 and to 377 by September 1986. Fixed invest-
ment in plant and machinery increased correspondingly, from US$5.3



- 10 -
million in 1983 to US$11.6 million in 1984 (surpassing for the first time
the 1976 peak), and to $16.5 million in the first nine months of 1985.
Moreover, the share of export firms in total manufacturing investment
increased ilo about 52 percent in 1985, up from an average of 27 percent
during the 1979-83 period. This is a clear signal that resources in
Mauritius are moving in the right direction.
38.       More important, still, has been the employment impact of the
manufactured exports boom. In two years, export enterprises created nearly
3U,000 jobs, and employed a total of 70,000 people by September 1986;
helping to bring down unemployment from 17 percent to an estimated 12
percent. Export firms created an estimated 20,000 new jobs in 1986. The
remarkable job creation record of the export subsector is all the more
important given that employment in the sugar sector, traditionally the
largest employer among the productive sectors, is contracting, that the
country still has a large pool of unemployed and that about 10,000 new job
seekers join the labor force each year.
C. Structure of Manufacturing
39.       The industrial sector development, described above, led to the
creation of two separate manufacturing subsectors in Mauritius: one
producing nearly exclusively for the export market and the other producing
mainly for the local market. Their growth performance, sectoral composi-
tion, average firm size and productivity are quite different. Although
less dynamic than the export-oriented subsector, the import substitution
subsector is still an important (but declining) contributor to manufac-
turiag value added (45 percent) and receives about half of the sector's
investment in machinery and equipment. On the other hand, this subsector
gives employment to only 20 percent of the country's industrial workers,
contributes less than 5 percent of manufactured exports and generates
practically no new employment.
40.       In 1986, there were 377 export firms operating within the EPZ
scheme and 334 enterprises producing for the local market. Of the latter,
169 operated under Development Certificate (DC) incentive scheme (para. 47)
and 165 operated outside the scheme (most of them established before it was
adopted). There are also a number of small firms (less than 10 workers)
producing manufactures for the local market. Textiles and apparel are the
dominant activities among export oriented firms, accounting for about 77
percent of total output and 91 percent of total employment.  Other manufac-
tured exports include jewelry, electronic watches, toys and plastic goods.
The import substituting subsector is much more diversified and accounts for
most of the firms producing food and beverages, chemicals, and metal
products. There are no data on the sectoral composition of small scale
enterprises, but there are indications that wearing apparel is also the
largest single activity among small firms.
41.       Exporting firms have a low average cost per job of under $3,000,
one tenth the investment cost per job in import substituting firms in
Mauritius, and a fraction of the $30,000 to 60,000 investment cost per job
in other Eastern and Southern African countries. The average export firm
employs nearly five times more workers than the average import substitution
firm (205 versus 45). Ninety percent of employment in export activities is
accounted for by establishments with more than 100 employees, as compared



- 11 -
to less than half for import substitution. Moreover, while establishments
with 500 or more workers account for more than half of employees in export
activities, there is no firm of this size in the import substituting
subsector.
42.       Between March 1982 and March 1986 average earnings in both EPZ
and non-EPZ manufacturing firms remained nearly constant in real terms.
With average earnings of about US$3.20 per day, the cost of labor in
Mauritius' EPZ firms is similar to that of other low wage export-oriented
countries such as Sri Lanka and Philippines, and from one fourth to one
sixth that of other textile exporters such as Hong Kong and Korea. Average
monthly earnings of EPZ workers amount to about half the average earnings
of workers in the rest of the manufacturing sector.
43.       Untll recently, over 80 percent of the workers in exporting firms
have been females, who under Mauritian labor laws were entitled to a
minimum wage nearly 30 percent lower than for males. In an effort to
increase male employment in EPZ firms, in early 1985 the Government
eliminated the minimum wage rates for male workers in the EPZ. As a result
of this measure, and of an incipient shortage of female labor due to the
recent rapid growth of EPZ employment, EPZ firms are beginning to employ
more male workers. Between March 1985 and March 1986 male employment in
EPZ firms nearly doubled.
44.       Ownership.  Import substitution firms are predominantly owned by
Mauritians, who also own about 50 percent of export firms and participate
in joint ventures, with varying proportions of equity, in another 40
percent of them. Far Eastern investors (predominantly from Hong Kong) have
also invested in Mauritius' EPZ firms to take advantage of preferential
access to the EEC market and lower labor costs. During the early 1970s,
gross direct foreign investment fluctuated between US$2 and 3 million per
year, but fell to a little less than US$1 million per year during the
difficult 1977-83 period. Foreign investment surged again, however,
to reach US$7.6 million in 1985. The share of foreign investment in all
fixed investment in manufacturing went up from about 4 percent in the early
1980s to about 22 percent in 1985 (the rest was financed by domestic credit
and retained profits). The Government of Mauritius is not directly
involved in manufacturing production.
45.       Markets.  Export industries were originally set up in Mauritius
to take advantage of the preferential access to the EEC that Mauritius
enjoys under the Lom& Convention, a trade agreement between the African,
Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) associate countries and the EEC countries. By
1981, Mauritius already ranked among the top four world exporters of
knitwear and accounted for around 80 percent of the ACP exports of clothing
of all types to the EEC countries. At that time, 83 percent of Mauritian
exports of manufactured goods went to EEC countries and only 14 percent
went to the US. This high penetration led to a negative reaction from the
importing countries and prompted Mauritian exporters to look for new
markets. Although the EEC is still the main market for Mauritian exports
(accounting for 67 percent of total exports in 1985), the US and Canada are
becoming increasingly important, accounting in 1985 for nearly 27 percent
of exports. Mauritius' exports are still highly concentrated on textiles
and apparel. These items accounted for 80 percent of exports in 1985, up
from 71 percent in 1981.



- 12 -
46.       Imported Inputs.  Manufacturing activities in Hauritius are
heavily dependent on imported raw materials, components and capital goods.
The import content of import substituting activities is estimated at about
30 percent of output. Export enterprises are even more dependent on
imported inputs; the import content of their output ranges between 60 and
77 percent, of which between 5 and 8 percent are capital goods and the rest
intermediate goods.
D. Industrial Policies
Incentives for Import Substituting Industries
47.       The Development Certificate (DC) Scheme was introduced in 1964
to stimulate the growth of import substituting industries. The essential
features of the ach-tme were corporate tax holidays for five to eight years,
according to the depreciation method chosen, and tax free dividends for any
consecutive five years (after the tax holiday, the DC firm is taxed at the
general corporate tax rate); loans for working capital at the prime rate
from commercial banks, duty free entry of capital goods, and protection
from competing imports through import quotas and tariffs. The package of
incentives for import substitution has undergone several modifications over
time.
48.       Quantitative Import Restrictions.  Quota restrictions were
imposed in 1969 to protect DC holders from foreign competition. In most
cases imports were restricted to 20 percent of their value in a base year
period (one to three years prior to the establishment of the domestic
industry). In addition, in 1978, a number of quotas were imposed for
balance of payment reasons, restricting imports to 50 percent of the
quantities imported in 1977. The average tariff equivalent premium due to
the quotas was estimated to be 20 percent, ranging between zero and 172
percent. All quantitative import restrictions were abolished under SAL II
in 1984-85.
49.       Import Tariffs.  Mauritius has a complex import tax structure as
a result of periodic increases and additions for fiscal and balance of
payments reasons. The current structure comprises a fiscal duty and
surcharge, customs duty, and stamp duty. Fiscal duties range from 0 to 450
percent. The customs duty is zero on imports from preferential sources
(EEC, US and the Commonwealth) and ranges from 5 to 50 percent of the cif
price on imports from non-preferential sources. A surcharge on fiscal and
customs duties was first introduced in December 1973. It has been
increased from the original 10 to 20 percent of the applicable fiscal duty
to the current 33.1 percent. The stamp duty is a levy payable at the time
of import permit approval that applies to almost all imported goods (except
for a few staples). It was first imposed in December 1979. It has been
increased several times from the original 2 percent to the current 17
percent of the cif value of imports.
50.       In general, consumer goods have higher tariffs than intermediate
inputs and capital goods. Tariffs (fiscal duties and surcharge) are very
high for some "luxury goods" such as alcoholic beverages (450-600 percent),
automobiles (265 percent), toiletries, and cosmetics (200 percent); high
(133 percent) for some final goods such as refrigerators, television sets,



- 13 -
and air conditioners -- which are assembled in Mauritius. The protective
effect of these tariffs is further increased by the stamp duty
(17 percent). On the other hand, intermediate goods required by some
locally-established "final touch" industries pay 40 percent tariff, while
raw materials and most food products pay only stamp duty.
51.       These tariffs have resulted in relatively high average effective
rates of protection for import-substitution activities (40 percent),
ranging from -24 percent in the case of food processing (which implies that
the firms would do better in a free trade regime) to over 800 percent for
electric machinery. In a few cases international value added is negative.
The highly protected segment, however, contributes a relatively small part
of industrial output, about 15 to 20 percent of total manufacturing value
added in domestic prices (i.e., about half of all import substituting
industries).
52.       The Drawback System.  To encourage exports by non-EPZ firns, in
the early 1980s, the Government introduced an export incentive scheme which
allows firms either not to pay (duty exemption), or to recoup (drawback)
duties paid on imported raw materials and intermediate goods when these are
used to produce goods for export. The duty exemption/drawback is based
upon an input-output relationship which the Collector of Customs determines
with the help of information from the manufacturer and the Standards
Bureau. The more effective scheme is the duty exemption, based on bank
guarantees, which is used by the larger and more regular non-EPZ
exporters. By contrast, the drawback scheme has not worked well and is
used by few manufacturers. Delays in cash repayment (up to 12 months) are
due to treasury cash shortages and cumbersome procedures. Moreover the
drawback system and the exemption system offset only partially the addi-
tional cost imposed by protection because they do not cover secondary
inputs and imported machinery used for the production of exports, which
results in a bias in favor of directly imported inputs.
53.       Price Controls.  Price controls were introduced to maintain low
prices for essential commodities and to reduce the monopoly power of both
importers and local firms. The system of price controls includes maximum
price and maximum mark-up regulations. Maximum mark-ups are allowed
percentage differences between import price and sales price, applying to
certain imported products; maximum prices apply to imported products as
well as locally produced products. Besides being costly to administer,
price controls had little effect on the price to consumers. During the
recession, demand for some products fell and the actual price remained
below the price ceiling. There has been also some degree of over-invoicing
of imports to evade the price control system. Recognizing that with the
elimination of quantitative import restrictions the circumstances that
justified the introduction of price controls had largely disappeared, the
Government, under SAL II, reduced the number of products subject to price
regulation; as of mid-1985, the number of products subject to maximum price
controls was reduced from 74 to 8. Nearly all products that remain under
maximum price controls are basic necessities. At the same time, the number
of products subject to maximum mark-ups was reduced from 40 to 18.



- 14 -
Incentives for Export Oriented Manufacturing
54.       The Export Processing Zone Act of December 8, 1970, aimed at
attracting investors into export processing activities, granted tax
holidays on corporate profits and dividends, exemption from tariffs on
imported inputs and exports, priority financing from DBM and credit from
commercial banks at preferential rates, lower electricity rates than
domestlc companies, free repatriation of capital and dividends, protection
against nationalization and greater flexibility concerning the discharging
of workers. These incentives were reserved for industries exporting the
totality of their output, and local sales by export industries were tightly
constrained.
55.       Corporate Taxes.  Companies operating under the EPZ scheme were
granted exemption from corporate tax for the first ten years of operation,
and were taxable at half the normal rate during years 11 to 15 and at 75
percent of the rate during years 16 to 20. Their dividends were tax free
for any consecutive five years beginning with the first year of dividend
payment. EPZ firms were also protected against double taxation by double
tax agreements with France, U.K., the Federal Republic of Germany and
India.
56.       Wage Poliy.  EPZ firms are subject to general labor laws in
Mauritius, including statutory minimum wage scales, but have greater
flexibility for discharging workers than firms producing for the local
market. In the past, the minimum wage for female workers was 65 percent of
that of male workers. As noted earlier (para. 43), the Government
eliminated in 1985 the minimum wage rate for male workers, but retained the
minimum wage for female workers. EPZ firms may fire workers without
payment of severance allowances and may reduce employment without advance
notification to the Board of Termination of Contracts and without the
waiting time required for domestic companies before terminating a contract.
57.       Credit Policy.  EPZ firms together with DC, sugar and
agricultural enterprises, are treated as priority borrowers for credit
control policies, receiving a minimum of fifty percent of all additional
commercial bank lending. EPZ export bills are rediscounted by the Bank of
Mauritius at preferential rates. The Development Bank of Mauritius gives
priority to the financing of EPZ industries and commercial banks extended
credit to them at preferential rates until lending rates were decontrolled
in February 1983. In recent years, the rate applicable to export financing
from commercial banks on bills eligible for rediscount at the Bank of
Mauritius has been 11.5 to 12 percent, close to the prime rate.
PART III - GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: CONSOLIDATION OF EXPORT-LED GROWTH
A. Future Growth of Manufacturing Exports
58.       While Mauritius' good export performance during the last three
years has been the result of good policies and favorable external
conditions, it should be noted that the prospects for future growth of
manufactured exports depend, inter alia, on: (a) availability of adequate



- 15 -
finance and foreign exchange resources to meet the needs of export indus-
tries; (b) greater mobilization of local investment towards the EPZ sector;
and (c) success in reducing concentration on garment exports and a few
markets. As noted earlier, EPZ firms are highly import-dependent, and
sudden leaps in the export of manufactured goods, such as occurred in 1984
and 1985 (when they surged by about 30 percent p.a.), must be accompanied
by large increases in the volume of working capital in the form of imported
raw materials and intermediate goods. To support its fast export growth,
the country uieeds to increase imports of industrial inputs, spare parts and
equipment, in advance of the future export increases. In addition, these
increased imports will have to take place at the same time as an increase
in the reserves position to at least three months of imports, up from the
current two months level, to reduce Mauritius' vulnerability on its garment
and sugar exports to market fluctuations.
59.       Expansion of investment in the export subsector in the last three
years has been, to a certain extent, the result of the influx of Hong Kong
investors striving to get a foothold in Mauritius before the expected impo-
sition of import quotas on textile products from Mauritius by the United
States. Local investors have been less active in trying to secure a share
of the US import quota. In order to attract more local investors into the
EPZ, the structure of incentives in Mauritius needs to change even further
to alter the relative balance between import substitution and export expan-
sion. In the past, the relatively high profitability of import substitu-
tion industries, due to protection, diverted investment away from manufac-
turing for exports (about two thirds of total investment in manufacturing
during the 1979-83 period was in import substituting industries) and made
some import substitution firms financially attractive which were not econo-
mically sound (i.e. electrical machinery). Furthermore, indirect exports
(i.e. locally produced inputs incorporated in another firm's exports) are
still discouraged by a drawback system that does not cover the import
duties paid by local suppliers to export firms nor the import duties paid
by non-EPZ firms on machinery and equipment used in the production for
exports.
bi0.      Finally, Mauritius' exports of manufactured goods remain
vulnerable to changing market conditions because they are still highly con-
centrated on a few products and markets. Although Mauritius has been
successful in reducing dependence on the EEC market, there is increasing
concentration on garments. The Government is now seeking to diversify the
country's industrial export base, both with respect to products and
markets, through its export promotion campaigns while monitoring sales into
sensitive areas to ensure that too rapid a penetration would not trigger
protectionist reactions. An important step to increase value added in
garment exports through vertical integration will be the establishment of
the recently approved project for a textile mill with IFC participation. A
greater export orientation among non-EPZ firms would also help export
diversification, since non-EPZ firms tend to be more diversified outside
the textile field than EPZ firms.
61.       The proposed loan would support the Government's strategy of
export-led growth by helping address the above issues and constraints
through a package of policy reforms and by providing needed foreign
exchange to the industrial sector.



- 16 -
B. Government Strategy and Recent Policy Changes
62.       In recent years, the Government of Mauritius has strengthened the
export-led industrialization strategy initiated in the early 1970s. In
line with this strategy, the industry component of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program, initiated in 1983 with Bank support,
introduced a set of medium term policy reforms for manufacturing industries
focusing on: (a) restoring the competitiveness of industrial exports; (b)
extending the investment incentives to production for exports to non-EPZ
firms; (c) reducing protection to import-substituting manufacturing by
eliminating quantitative import restrictions, reducing price controls and
some tariffs; (d) attracting new local and foreign investment and
technology to export manufacturing by creating two new agencies: one to
function as one-stop-center for potential investors, and the other to be
responsible for investment and export promotion; and (e) encouraging
private investment by lowering income tax rates on companies.
63.       Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions.  In September 1983, the
Government announced that no further quantitative import restrictions would
be granted. By July 1984, quotas on all commodities with tariffs of 30
percent and above were removed; the remaining quotas were removed by
January 1985. The removal of quantitative import restrictions resulted in
only a moderate increase in imports in 1985, that was more than compensated
by the export expansion. The elimination of quantitative import
restrictions was an important step in reducing protection for import
substituting industries.
64.        Tax Reform.  In June 1984, the corporate income tax rate was
reduced from 65 to 35 percent, applied to all corporate profits before
distribution of dividends. A system of corporate tax benefits was also
introduced for non-EPZ exporters in which the tax rate is reduced by 2
percentage points for each 10 percent of output exported. In June 1985,
EPZ and DC companies were given the option between maintaining their
previous tax benefits or changing to a permanent corporate tax rate of 15
percent with dividends exempted from income tax for the first ten years of
the firm's operations. Most firms accepted the new option. One main
advaatage of the new tax regime is that it closes the loophole under which
firms could formally close at the end of the tax holiday period to start
again under a new certificate.
65.       Export and Investment Promotion.  To encourage private local and
foreign investment and exports, in 1983 the Government created two new
institutions. First, the Industrial Coordination Unit (ICU) was created
within the Ministry of Industry and Cooperatives (MIC), to act as a
one-stop shop,providing clearances and permits to potential investors.
This unit has reduced substantially the time involved in completing the
formalities for establishing enterprises in Mauritius. Second, the
Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority (MEDIA) was
established as a parastatal organization responsible for promoting
investment and exports and for developing and operating industrial sites
and estates. Its Board of Directors consists of private and public sector
representatives. The Government is also active in assisting EPZ firms to



- 17 -
obtain freight rebates from major shipping companies and in negotiating
the size of the quotas imposed by the US and Canada on Mauritius' garment
exports.
66.       Construction of Industrial Estates.  The Government has tradi-
tionally provided EPZ firms with readily available factory space at subsi-
dized rents. In keeping with the objective of increasing reliance on the
private sector, in July 1986 Parliament adopted an Industrial Buildings
Incentives bill, which provides fiscal incentives for the construction of
industrial buildings (with a floor space of not less than 1,000 sq. m.) by
the private sector for renting to manufacturing enterprises. These include
a 15 percent corporate tax rate and exoneration from the rent control pro-
visions of the Landlord and Tenant Act. During the preparatory work for a
proposed Industrial Finance project, expected to be financed by the Bank,
the Government indicated its intention to phase out rent subsidies and to
base MEDIA's and DBM's pricing policy (rental rates or sale prices) on the
principle of full cost recovery.
67.       Other measures taken under the Government Structural Adjustment
program include the reduction in price controls (para. 53), and the reduc-
tion, in January 1986, of average import tariffs on transport equipment by
more than 25 percent. Some of the transport equipment affected by the
reduction such as bicycles, batteries, exhaust pipes, silencers, and brake
and clutch components are produced domestically by large establishments.
The policies implemented until now under the Government Structural Adjust-
ment Program have addressed some of the basic industrial sector issues and
gone a long way towards reducing the distortions of the incentive system.
The surge in EPZ exports and the increase in the share of industrial
investment going to export industries in 1984 and 1985 (paras. 36 to 38)
are evidence that these policies have been successful and that resources
are moving in the right direction.
C. The New Policy Package
68.       The Government intends to make further changes in industrial
policy in order to stimulate export development further and achieve greater
efficiency in resource allocation. In this context, the Government is
committed to: (a) reform the trade regime, discontinue the granting of DC
certificates other than in exceptional cases and reduce price controls on
imported products to reduce protection and encourage efficiency in import
substituting industries; and (b) improve the drawback scheme, extending it
to indirect exports, to incorporate non-EPZ firms more effectively into the
export drive. The Government has already taken steps to: ti) diversify the
industrial export base, both with respect to products and to external
markets, through MEDIA's export promotion activities; and (ii) promote
greater private sector involvement in the construction and ownership of
factory buildings and industrial estates. The proposed loan would ensure
that the momentum for policy reform is sustained by supporting the policy
actions that the Government has initiated or is considering in order to
achieve these objectives. Major policy actions that the Government is
implementing or intends to implement with the support of the proposed loan
are described below and summarized in matrix form on pages 22-23.



- 18 -
Reform of the Trade Regime
69.       With the elimination of quantitative import restrictions and mosc
price controls under SAL II, the Government took an important initial step
In reducing protection to import substitution industries. The next step In
the process of trade liberalization will be to reform the tariff structure,
including the simplification and consolidation of the different import
duties and the reduction over time of maximum tariffs on imported pro-
ducts. The Government is committed to tariff reform, not only for its
effect on efficiency but also as part of a wider program of tax reform
aimed at reducing the excessive weight of trade taxes in Mauritius' tax
structure. This is an objective fully supported by the Bank and the IMF.
70.       The initial steps in the process of tariff reform, supported by
the proposed loan, would include the following measures:
(a)   Reduction of Maximum Tariff Levels.  As a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan, the Government would (1) reduce the
maximum import duty rate from preferential sources (EEC, US and
the Commonwealth), inclusive of fiscal duty, surcharges and stamp
duty, from 600 to 127 percent, except for petroleum, tobacco and
tobacco products, and alcoholic beverages; and (ii) reduce the
higher rate applicable to imports from general (i.e., non-prefer-
ential) sources, correspondingly, without increasing customs
duties. As a condition of second tranche release of the proposed
loan, the Government would (i) further reduce the maximum import
duty rate from preferential sources to 107 percent; (ii) reduce
maximum tariffs on tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic bever-
ages from preferential sources to 107 percent or to a level
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) reduce the maximum import
duty rate from general sources correspondingly, without increas-
ing customs duties. Further, the Government proposes to levy,
concurrently with the tariff reductions, compensating excise
duties on some imported and locally produced products to assist
in maintaining Government revenues from these imports while dis-
couraging inefficient production.
(b)   Simpliflcation of the Structure of the Tariff Schedule.  In lieu
of the complex current import tax structure, the Government wouild
adopt two basic schedules of rates. One would be the general
schedule of import duties, incorporating the present fiscal
duties, customs duty and import surcharge. The other would allow
for a lower rate of duty on imports from countries classified as
preferential sources. The stamp duty would continue to be levied
separately. The Government would also reduce the number of
tariff brackets from about 30 to less than 15. Submission by the
Government of a detailed Plan of Action satisfactory to the Bank,
for the implementation of the proposed simplification would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Release of the
second tranche would be subject to a satisfactory implementation
of the Plan.
71.       The proposed reduction in maximum tariffs would affect about 124
items in the Customs Tariff, with an import value in 1985 of about seven
percent of the import bill, excluding EPZ, petroleum and food imports; and
90 import substituting firms, which represent 30 percent of the 340 import
substituting firms operating in Mauritius. About 44 of the 90 affected



- 19 -
firms would have their nominal tariff protection reduced by 43 percentage
points by the second year of the reform and the other 35 firms would
experience a reduction of 10 percentage points. The reduction of import
tariffs from the current 150 to the proposed 107 percent for some consumer
durable products assembled in Mauritius such as refrigerators, would reduce
their effective rate of protection by as much as 200 percentage points.
72.       A maximum tariff of 107 would still provide a high level of
protection to import substituting activities. However, this tariff reduc-
tion, implemented soon after the elimination (in 1985) of quantitative
import restrictions, would give a strong signal to local investors about
Government intentions of gradually reducing protection to import substitu-
tion industries. Within 18 months of second tranche release, the Govern-
ment would carry out a study of the impact of the tariff reductions imple-
mented under this program on the balance of payments, fiscal revenues and
the affected enterprises. A draft final report of this study would be dis-
cussed with the Bank and would be the basis for a dialogue between the
Government and the Bank on further tariff reductions in the following
years. This gradual approach is realistic, given the political and econo-
mic pressures that the groups likely to be affected by greater opening of
the economy are able to exercise in Mauritius. In its dialogue with the
Government on tariff reform, the Bank has recommended reducing the maximum
tariff rate to about 40 to 50 percent in the medium term, and indicated
that any further policy based loan to Mauritius would need to be associated
with further tariff reductions.
73.       In designing the first two steps in the process of tariff reduc-
tion, consideration was given to their short term impact on fiscal
revenues, the balance of payments, and on industrial firms. Receipts from
various duties and taxes on imports comprised 44 percent of estimated
Governnent revenues in 1984-85. Consequently, any change in the tariif
system would have potential budgetary implications, at least in the short
term. The revenue loss of reducing the maximum tariff to 107 percent is
estimated to be about M Rs 5 million1 or less than one percent of total
revenues from import tariffs (i.e., fiscal duties and surcharges). The
limited revenue loss is due to the relatively high elasticity of imports
subject to high tariffs. There would be an additional reduction in
revenues from customs ducies, but it would be relatively insignificant.
These reductions in import tariff revenues are expected to be easily
compensated by revenue increases resulting from higher economic activity.
Similarly, Bank estimates indicate that the proposed tariff reform is
likely to have only a minor impact on the still fragile reserve situation.
The reduction in maximum tariff is expected to produce an increase in
imports of the items with reduced tariffs of only M Rs 13 million, or less
than one percent of the current import level. Moreover, the Government and
the Bank would assess the evolution of the program of tariff reductions
every six months, while it is being implemented.
74.       Finally, the proposed changes are gradual enough to allow poten-
tially efficient import substitution firms to adjust to more competition.
Based on previous work done by consultants, it is estimated that firms
responsible for over three fourths of employment in the import substitution
subsector would have few difficulties in adjusting to the proposed reduc-
tion in protection. Any lay-offs that would occur due to the closure of a
few inefficient firms, unable to adapt to greater competition, would be
easily absorbed by the fast growing export oriented manufacturing sector.



- 20 -
Discontinuation of the Development Cirtificate Scheme (DC)
75.       In recent years, the Government has reduced the number of DC
certificates granted. The number of import-substituting firms with valid
DC certificates increased by 12 in the year ending in March 1984 and by
only 3 in the year ending in March 1985. No DC certificates were granted
in 1986. In the future, DC certificates would be granted only in
exceptional cases. The crlteria for selecting these cases have been agreed
and are annexed to the Government's Statement of Industrial Policy. As a
condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would take all necessary
actions to institutionalize the criteria agreed upon. One consideration
for granting a DC certificate would be that the applicant does not already
enjoy high protection. Except for the few exceptional cases that would
comply with the agreed criteria, new non-EPZ firms would not be eligible
for tax holidays. These firms would have access, however, to the export
iacentives of the new tax regime and to the improved drawback scheme. As a
result, a more unified incentive scheme would be set In place.
Improvement of che Drawback System
76.       The drawback system is being improved in order to encourage
exports by non-EPZ exporters. With help from the IMF and in consultation
with the Bank, the Government has undertaken a comprehensive study of the
drawback system with the objective of adapting mechanisms to expedite the
duty refund system, extending drawback privileges to indirect exporters and
to imports of capital equipment used in the production of exports, and
simplifying the administration of the scheme. Based on the study, the
Government, in consultation with the Bank, would prepare a Plan of Action
to restructure the drawback system. The submission by the Government of
such a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan. Release of the second tranche would be subject
to satisfactory implementation of the plan.
Elimination of Price Controls
77.       As part of its strategy of freeing prices and of reducing costly
Government regulatory activities, the Government is committed to additional
deregulation of industrial prices. For social reasons, prices affecting a
few imported and locally produced basic foodstuffs would remain regulated.
78.       The present focus of the price deregulation effort is on the
elimination of maximum mark-ups for imported products. The elimination of
quantitative import restrictions in early 1985 did away with the possibi-
lity that permanent excess demand for these goods would allow importers to
make extraordinary profits using the de facto monopoly power conferred by
the permits. Further, an analysis of the structure of supply for these
products in Mauritius has shown that in all cases the number of established
importers is large enough to ensure that competitive forces will protect
Mauritius' consumers. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government
would reduce the number of products subject to maximum price mark-up from
eighteen to four. The products that would remain under maximum price
mark-up are: textbooks, pharmaceuticals, periodicals and sports goods.



- 21 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A! Loan History
79.       The possiblity of an industrial sector loan was initially dis-
cussed by a Bank mission with tho Government in March 1985. The mission
detevnmined that there was need to assist the rapidly growing export manu-
facturing sector.
80.       The proposed project was appraised in July 1985 and a post-
appraisal mission visited Mauritius in January 1986. Subsequently, Bank
staff met on several occasions with Mauritian delegations headed by the
Mlnister of Finance to continue discussions on the policy package to be
supported by the proposed loan. Negotiations were held beginning
January 29, 1987 with a Mauritian delegation headed by S. Lutchmeenaraidoo,
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance.
Previous Bank Group Support for Industry
81.       The World Bank Group has assisted the industrial sector in
Mauritius through several lines of credit to the Development Bank of
Mauritius (DBM) and through two structural adjustment loans. Two IDA
Credits (approved in 1972 and 1973) for a total of US$7.5 million were made
to the DBN; the first was used to finance investment projects and the
second was for the construction of the Coromandel Industrial Estate. The
IDA Credits were followed by five IBRD Loans to DBM. The total Bank Group
financial assistance to DBM amounts to US$39.5 million. All loans, except
the last two, have been fully disbursed. The last two loans to DBM have
been fully committed. The Bank's experience has been generally satisfac-
tory, although utilization of the last two loans was delayed due to the
recession in the early 1980s. Also, commitments under the sixth line of
credit were slower than expected due to its higher interest rate (11.6 per-
cent against 7.65 percent for the fifth line of credit). The DBM loans,
which financed a large number of export oriented firms (during the last two
years nearly 70 percent of loan approvals for manufacturing and tourism
went to export oriented industries and hotels), also served as vehicles for
a continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government and helped
influence the Government's policies with respect to interest rates and
industrial estates development.
82.       The Bank has supported the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program through two SALs. The first, of US$15 million, was approved in
1981 and the second, of US$40 million, was approved in 1983. Under both
SALs, the Government implemented a number of policy reforms aimed at main-
taining the competitiveness of Mauritius' industrial exports and encourag-
ing foreign and local investment (paras. 61-66). The elimination of quan-
titative import restrictions and price liberalization under SAL II were
important steps toward reducing protection to import substituing manufac-
turing, paving the way for the reforms supported by the proposed loan.



- 22 -
MNWRMUS DUJSIRIL S9R  ASSISThNO  LOM
IMbaawn to be hken
Mbaurmn  t( 1w taken urter proposed
.thvetl               Mamures Already  uwn                     Lon aMd Tiing
1. Th reduc  level am d    (i) quntitntive iwrt            (i)  duction of Tvxinun tariffu on
dispersion of offoctive    restrictions were elUminated    iports tn preferential sorce  to
protection to mport-       ln Jnauary 1985.                127% Includitig surcharg  and step
substituting indust-                                       duty before lan effectivems, acpt
ries.                      (ii) Tariffs on trnuwport       for petroleuw products, alcoholic
equipnnt (including parts       beverae, tobacco ard tobacco pro-
produced In Mauritius) were     ducts; corresponding reduction in moud-
reduced by more than 25% on    atn tariffs fran general soirees, with-
average in January 1986.        out increa  in cantons duties.
(ii) Further redaction of nsdmn
tariffs on imports from preferential
qources to Q107  and reductim of
madnum tariffs an alcoholic beverages,
tobacco and tobacco products to 107% or
to a level satisfactory to the Bark,
before second tranche release;
correponding reduction In nm .
tariffs fran general soures, without
increase in custais duties.
(iii) Joint Goverimnt/Bats sesen
of effect of tariff reduction every six
months during inpltnenration of the
relorms. Within 18 mantIs of sed
trawche release, Goverwent to carry
out a study of impact of implmnted
tariff reductiors. Draft final. report
of this study to be diswcssed with the
Bark. The study to be the bsi of
dizaissions betwee the Goverrmt and
the Bark on further tariff redactl.s
to be inplsented in the fol.iUig
years.
2. To simplify the         The Mlnistry of Firace in       Program of tariff simplification which
tariff scdule.             collboration with DIM           would include mergLng the fiscal duty
consultant, has completed a    and iport suwrcharges and a reduction
study on simplification of      In the munber of tariff brackets:
the structure of the tariff     (i) submision of a plan of action for
schedule.                       tariff simplification satisfactory to
the Bark before loan effe    ss;
(ii) satisfactory lap terion of
such a plan before sec  trardhe
release.



- 23 -
3.  'lb discourage          Government has drasticaly        Adoptln of the principle to
irestuent in                reduced the nunber of now        disontilue grantin  Development
ineficiet                   Development Certificates         Certificates, save in eceptioal
limport-substituting        (DC) granted to import sub-      cases. The criteria to select these
inckmtries.                 stitution Industries.            exceptioma cases are appended to the
Statement of Industrial Policy.
4. To encourage             (i) A tax incentive, intro       (i) Subnission of a plan of action for
manufacuring exports       duced in 1985, provides for      restructuring the drabac& system
by nonrEPZ enterprises.    a 2% reduction in corporate       satiactory to the Bark before loan
taxes for esdh (l of coutput    effectiveness.  IJprovements would aim
exported by nan-EP2 enter-       at: a) expediting the duty refbnd
priss.                           system; b) simplifyiqg the
adninistration of the scheme;and c)
(ii) Export Drabadck Unit        exctxdig drsubadc privilege to
has been created in the          indirect exporters (firms who process
Custos Depatment.               aid then sel1 Imports to exporters).
(iii) A study of the draw-       (ii) Satisfactory izplentation of the
badk system has been carried    plan to restructure the drasback system
out by Gover Jaob-               before second trancbe release.
boration with IMF. Plxiigs
aid reco mexdations of the
study wtre discussed with
the Bark at negotiations.
5. To reduce                The nmber of products sub-       Reduction in the number of products
Government interference    ject to uwdmua price con-         subject to uxfmumn price mark-up fron
in the pricing              trols was reduced from 74 to    18 to 4 before loan effectiveness.
mexhnts.                    8 In mid-1985 and the nxmber
of products subject to nmxt-
an idak-up fron 40 to 18.



- 24 -
C. Loan Objectives and Rationale
83.       The main objective of the proposed ISAL is to facilitate the
further expansion of Mauritius' efficient export-oriented manufacturing.
Such an expansion would lessen Mauritius' dependence on sugar (a crop whose
long-term prospects are probably limited) and generate additional jobs at
low cost--something which is critically needed to bring down unemployment
levels. The proposed IBRD Loan of US$25 million plus a parallel UA 30
million equivalent loan from the African Development Bank (ADB) would
achieve the above stated objective by supporting export activities in two
ways; (a) by supporting further important steps in the Government's
program of reform OL the industrial policy framework aimed at promoting
greater efficiency in resource allocation; and (b) by providing needed
foreign exchange resources while additional export capacity is being
generated.
84.       The proposed loan would continue Bank support for industrial
policy changes in Mauritius. The main changes in Industrial policy in
recent years, adopted as part of the adjustment program, have been the
gradual reduztion in the level of protection granted to import substituting
manufacturing (i.e. elimination of quantitative import restrictions and
reduction of price controle) and the adoption of measures geared at
facilitating exports by non-EPZ firms (through tax incentives and the
creation of a drawback system). Through twa Structural Adjustment Loans,
the Bank has played a pivotal role in the design and implementation of
these policy reforms. The policy changes supported by the proposed loan,
particularly the tariff reduction and the discontinuation of granting DC
certificates, would be a further step in the process of gradually phasing
out the incentives offered to inefficient import-substitution enterprises;
the improvement of the drawback system and itp extension to indirect
exporters would also further encourage exports by non-EPZ firms.
Additional steps in tariff reduction would have to be taken in the future
to complete the transformation of Mauritius' non-EPZ industrial sector into
a fully open sector which can make a growing contribution to the country's
balance of payments and to growth of employment and output. The Government
has expressed its intention to undertake further tariff reductions
following the implementation of this project. The Government is also aware
that any future Bank adjustment-based lending would be dependent on further
progress on tariff reduction.
85.       In connection with the proposed loan, the Government and the Bank
have reached agreement on development objectives for the manufacturing
sector and on an appropriate strategy to achieve them. These
understandings are reflected in the Government's Statement of Industrial
Policy, presented in Annex 3 of this report. The specific policy changes
to be supported by the loan, discussed in detail in paras. 68 to 78, and
summarized in the form of a matrix on pages 22 and 23, have been the
subject of extensive discussions between the Bank, the ADB, the Government
of Mauritius and, where appropriate, the IMF.
86.       The objectives of the proposed loan fit within the framework of
the Bank's strategy for Mauritius, which is to support the country's
export-led growth and to mobilize, through the Consultative Group process
and improved aid coordination, substantial resources in support of the



- 25 -
country's adjustment program. As mentioned earlier (para. 25), the pro-
posed IBRD and ADB loans would finance the equivalent of about 4 percent of
Mauritius' merchandise imports and would meet about one third of the gross
external capital requirements of the country in 1987 and 1988.
D. Loans Terms and Conditions
87.       The objectives outlined above would be pursued by means of:
(i) a $25 million equivalent IBRD loan with a term of 17 years, including 4
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate and (ii) a UA 30
million equivalent loan from the African Development Bank (ADB) with a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at 7.64 percent interest per annum
plus a statutory commission of 1.0 percent per annum. The proposed IBRD
and ADB loans would be made to the Government and would each be available
for disbursement in two equal tranches. The Government would, in turn,
sell their proceeds, through the Central Bank, to eligible enterprises
through normal commercial banking channels. The loan would reimburse 100
percent of the CIF cost of a wide range of imports against proof of ship-
ment and payment, the main exclusions being alcoholic beverages, tobacco,
military equipment and luxury consumer goods. Both private and public
sector imports would be eligible for financing.
E. Cofinancing
88.       At Government's request, ADB, which had expressed interest in
supporting reform in the industrial sector, joined in the dialogue between
the Government and the Bank on tariff and other industrial policy reforms.
ADB staff participated in the appraisal and in subsequent Bank missions and
discussions with Government. Cofinancing between the Bank and ADB would be
under a parallel arrangement whereby each institution would follow its own
procurement and disbursement guidelines. Both IBRD and ADB draft loan
agreements provide for cross loan effectiveness and cross tranche release
conditions. Both institutions have agreed on a draft Memorandum of Under-
standing detailing the modalities with respect to exchange of information,
cooperation and supervision. The Memorandum would be signed after
signature of the two loan agreements.
F. Coordination with IMF
89.       The proposed loan has been carefully coordinated with the IMF,
particularly concerning the estimated fiscal and balance of payment effects
of the tariff reduction. The IMF staff has been kept fully informed of the
dialogue between Government and the Bank, and participated in preparatory
discussions and key meetings with Government officials. The Bank mission
of July 1986 was scheduled to coincide with an IMF mission. During that
mission, Government, Bank and IMF staff reviewed the Bank calculations of
the fiscal and balance of payment impacts of the proposed tariff reform.
An IMF staff member, working in close coordination with the Bank, has pre-
pared a program for improving the drawback system.
G. Disbursement and Procurement
90.       It is anticipated that the loan would be disbursed over 18 to 24
months. The first tranche would be available upon effectiveness, and the
second tranche would be available approximately 9 to 12 months later.



- 26 -
Disbursement of the second tranche would be conditional on a satisfactory
review of progress on the policy reform program as described in the Govern-
ment's Statement of Industrial Policy (Annex 3) and specific actions taken
by the Government as specified in the summary table in pages 22 and 23.
91.       The Government has indicated that a Special Account would not be
required and that withdrawals would be made on reimbursement basis. With-
drawals from the Loan Account would be made against full documentation
except for contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent, in which case
withdrawals would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures by the
Central Bank certifying that the loan proceeds were used for eligible
expenditures. Withdrawal applications would be for amounts not less than
US$1.0 million equivalent. Contracts for less than US$10,000 would not be
eligible for financing.
92.       Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$2 million or more would be awarded through ICB in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts for less than that amount would
be awarded on the basis of normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of the goods.
H. Accounts and Audit
93.       Project accounts to be maintained by the Central Bank under the
proposed loan would be audited by auditors acceptable to IBRD and certified
copies of the relevant audited accounts as well as statements of expendi-
tures would be submitted to IBRD.
I. Benefits and Risks
94.       The ultimate benefit to Mauritius of the proposed loan would be
continued growth of manufactured exports and further reduction in unemploy-
ment. The policy and institutional changes discussed in paras. 69 to 78
would help extend and consolidate the industrial policy reforms initiated
under the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, aimed at reducing
protection to import substitution manufacturing and to further encourage
exports by non-EPZ and EPZ firms alike. In addition, the increase in the
availability of foreign exchange in 1987 and 1988 would allow Mauritius to
finance the level of imports needed to support projected export growth
while maintaining a more adequate level of reserves.
95.       The proposed program of tariff reform and the discontinuation of
granting DC certificates are important steps in the medium term program to
reduce the level of effective protection granted to import substitution
manufacturing, a program which started with the elimination of quantitative
import restrictions and price controls under SAL II. The proposed measures
would give clear signals to local investors that they should move away from
inefficient import substitution and invest in export activities, where they
have better growth possibilities. Since the investment cost per job in
export oriented enterprises is only a fraction of that in import substitu-
tion ones (para. 41), a reorientation of local investment toward export
activities would have a positive impact on job creation. Lower tariffs



- 27 -
would encourage local producers to become more competitive in price and
quality, to the advantage of local consumers. Greater competitiveness
would allow local producers to enter in the export business either directly
or indirectly by becoming suppliers to export firms. This, in turn, would
foster the integration of Mauritian industry and contribute to increase the
value added content of manufactured exports. Finally, the proposed
improvements in the drawback system would also help to incorporate non-EPZ
firms more effectively into the export drive. As these firms are more
diversified than EPZ firms, an increase in their export activities should
help reduce Mauritius' dependence on textile exports. The elimination of
maximum price mark-ups of a number of imported products is an additional
step in reducing Government's costly regulatory activities and a reaffirma-
tion of the Government's strategy of letting prices be determlned by the
market mechanism.
96.       The main risks assoclated with the proposed operation relate to
the obstacles that may appear during the implementation stages of the
tariff reform due to: Ci) the Government's concern about the possibility
of adverse effects on fiscal revenues and foreign exchange reserves, and
(ii) the political pressures generated by economic groups affected by the
tariff reduction. Several factors make taking this risk acceptable.
First, the Government has shown commltment and ability to execute a program
of structural adjustment that included some politically sensitive actions
such as the elimination of import quotas, maximum prlce controls and sub-
sidies, and continuation of the policy of wage restraint. Second, the
export-led strategy has already shown its impact In terms of growth and
employment generation in Mauritius, especially during the last three
years. Third, the present favorable economic conditions, together with the
proposed loan, would allow the economy to absorb the revenue and balance of
payments effects of this first phase of tariff reductions. Moreover, the
operation provides for adequate monitoring of the impact of the tariff
reform through its various stages.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
97.       Mauritius has received five IDA Credits and nineteen Bank Loans,
totalling $235.3 million (net of cancellations), to help finance projects
in industry, power, ports, agriculture and rural development, urban deve-
lopment, water supply, and education, and for structural adjustment. IFC
made two loans in 1971 and in 1981 for hotel development and one loan in
1986 for a textile project. Annex II presents a summary of Bank Group
operations.
98.       Project implementation is generally satisfactory in Mauritius, as
the country has the administrative and technical capacity to handle most
project respcnsibilities. There have sometimes been delays due to weaknes-
ses in coordination among ministries and entities responsible for project
formulation and execution. Disbursement performance is close to the Bank-
wide average.
99.       Until the early 1980s, the Bank assistance program concentrated
on investment projects. The two SALs, approved in 1981 and 1983, helped
the Government to adopt macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms that led
to resumed growth of the economy. They also laid the foundation for
designing and preparing new investment proposals in productive areas, with
emphasis on diversification of the economy.



- 28 -
100.      The Bank's current country assistance strategy revolves around
three main objectives. First, the strategy seeks to identify new areas
where further policy reforms could be introduced with beneficial effects on
investment, employment, economic diversification, and efficient use of
Mauritius' scarce resources. In this connection, planned economic and
sector work Is directed at assessing public enterprises, allocation of
scarce land and water resources between rural and urban communities and the
financial sector. The design of our lending operation is closely geared to
supporting agreed conclusions emerging from our economic and sector work.
101.      Second, the Bank expects to assist the Government in designing
and tinancing investment projects that build on reforms undertaken under
the structural adjustment program. A project aimed at supporting the
restructuring of the sugar sector was approved in FY86. In addition to the
operation proposed in this report, other lending operations are under
active preparation for the development of the industrial infrastructure in
support of the export manufacturing sector, of domestic energy resources,
of agricultural diversification, and of technical training.
102.      Third, the Bank is working to improve aid coordination with a
view to promote an assistance program responsive to the long-term priority
needs of the Mauritian economy. The Consultative Group for Mauritius has
met three times and has helped considerably in the channelling of
resources, particularly during the difficult adjustment years of the past
decade. At the last meeting, held in May 1985, donors praised the progress
achieved and strongly endorsed the new direction given by the Government to
its economic policies, particularly the impetus given to the promotion of
export manufacturing and to diversification of the economy in general. As
economic performance improves, coordination efforts are expected to empha-
size sectoral meetings for the formulation of coherent long-term sector
strategies and indentification of priority investment programs. In this
context, a meeting chaired by Mauritius on the sugar and energy sectors
took place in February 1987; a special feature of this meeting was active
participation of private sector representatives in the Mauritius delega-
tion.
VI - RECOMMENDATION
103.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
March 18, 1987



-29 -Annex 
Page 1- of 2
MAURITIUS - Economic Indicators
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1985 r,
Annual rate. of Growth 2/
USS Mn.           X            1978-82        1982-86
CDP at Market Pries                1953.8          100.0             1.4            a.9
Croas domestic Investmnt            287.6           22.4           -11.5           11.8
Croas Dometic Saving                221.9           20.9             5.2            6.9
Current Account Balance             -22.7           -2.5             -
Exports of Goods, NFS               575.8           64.2             2.1            6.7
imports of Goods, NFS               691.3           66.8.           -7.6            0.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1985
Value added   3/             Labor Force    4/            V.A. per Worker
US1 4in.                     T Thousand       N_             US Z     
Sugir               95.5          9.8            42.8          21.0         2231            4c.8
Other Agriculture   89.5          4.1             5.4           2.7         7315           1S3.6
Other Industry     296.8         30.6            65.9          31.9         4154            95.6
Servlceo          658.7         656.             90.4          44.4         5969           126.1
Total            969.7        160.6           293.6         100.0         4783           1.090
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Governmnt
Rs IkIn.                   1.  O
1984-96                     1984-85
Current Revenue                               339                         21.9
Current Expenditure                           3717                        24.2
Current Deficite                             -348                        - 
Capital Expenditure                            571                         3.7
Overall deficit                               -880                      .-66
foreign financing                              7M                          4.6
MQNEY  CREDIT AND PRICES
1PSO     1981      1982      1983        1964      1985
(Re sT=T1on outiiiindlng aFtth end ofiRh; perioaiF
Money and Quasi Money                       38B37.4   3992.5   4926.9   5428.2        6198       7424
Claima on government (net)                 2396.9   3199.6   3991.1   4696.8          490       5234
Claim on private sector                     1881.1   2269.1   2460.9   2796.9         3407      3900
(Pereontage or Inem  Numbera)
Money and Quasi Money as X of COP          44.1        39.1      42.0      42. 5      43.4      46.9
CDP Price Deflator (1982 = 100)             82.6       92.0    169.0    108.5         115.6    124.8
Annual percentage changes in 
CDP Deflator                                27.4        11.5       8.7       8.5        7.4       7.1
Claim  on Government (net)                  21.8       38.1      26.1      17.7         4.5       6.7
Claims on private sector                     9.3        29.1      8.9       13.7      21.8       14.S
Nots: All conversions to dollars In this talbe are at the average exchange rate
prevoiling during the period covered.
1/   Preliminary
7f   In 1978 prices
t/   At factor cost
*  -    Employmnt in large esablishmnts as of 1984.



MAURITIUS - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1981      1982     1998        1934     19i8 3/
(US!   MonE
1983 -86 Avera                    198S
US. *                            USIa. 
Exports of Goode, NFS           510.9     569.6    608.1       507.1    671.9            Sugar        I99.1           61.              618.7      45.2
Imports of Ooods, NFS          880.4      538.9    112.5       642.3    603.8            Molasses      4.3             1.2  *            4.8        l.l
Resource Cap                   -119.6     -36.4      -5.9      -34.9    -19;9            Too           12.6            5.b              11.6        2.7
EPZ         166.0            41.2             212.8      49.5
Investment Incom  (not)        -48.3      -45.6    -41.0       -41.9    -44.7            Othera       11.7             3.6              15.6        3.5
Net Transfers                    17.8      84.1      19.4       27.4     31.7
Current Account Balance       -148.3      -42.0    -25.5       -49.3    -82.8              Total     398.3           166.1             421.4      16.5
Long-term Capital                 0.7       1.7      0.9         5.9      7.1
Net MLT borrowing:               $7.6      46.6    -21.4        68.8     22.9
Disburnsmnts                49.9       71.6     31.6       111.6     59.3
AmortIzation                12.4       26.6     63.0       42.3      39.0           EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1996
Other capital (net) 1            6.9     -11.3      2.1        16.0      0.6                     (USE million)
Public Debt, outstanding and   139.9
Chonge In lksserves             103.2       6.8     44.0       -38.2     -4.0              disbursed
t (-) * increase)
Memo Item                                                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1936
Use of -5CRs                     -7.3       -        -           -        -              Public Dbt,  nel. guaranteed  11.3/
Use of IMF credit               64.4      $3.5       14.7       -9.8    -17.1
IBRD/DA LE DINQ (October    1985)
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C!Ll { I olTln
RATE OF EXCIANGE                                                                 sL"                            IDA
_1 9S1      i 198   3      19951984                                _S                         Outstanding A Dlubursed       101.25     19.81
USSI .ftl937         U1      a8USSI.O=11.700                  UStl1I11a3o801     USll  3flS.443        Undisbursed                                 - 6 6
Rl.e=Usso.1119      RiIGoUSii.692         RI.=USSO.085       RI.O=USSO.073       R1.6l US53.e66        Outstanding Including        168.80      31-1
undlsbureed
IAN    Preliminary
*      Includes short-term private capital, SDR allocation and ertors and omisalona
*   J  Debt service payments (excluding IMF repayments) as percentage of eatlmatad export earnings.
N



-31-
ANNEX II
SmI   OF BANK aQU   OPERAICS IN MAIRIT
A. Statement of Bank IDans ad IDA Cedits (as of Septmber 30, 1986)
Loan or
Credit
lNter      Year   BrroWer               pose                Bank 1/  mA 1/ Ukxishwsed
Tbal'e loams and five credits have ben fully dishirsed     120.91     20.42
1789-HAS   1981   DIM          Develqpant Bak V             5.59                   1.91
1926-S   1981    mrltius   Urban Rehab and Dew.             15.00                  4.37
2164-AS   1982   Mauritius   Dewlcpent Bank VI               6.00                  3.80
2229-M    1983   llritius    Water Supply                   12.20                  6.03
2337-HAS   1983   Hauritius   High.ays                      15.20                 14.33
2362-S   1983   Maritius   Technical Assistance              0.68 2/               0.19
2728-HAS   1986   Mauritius   Sugar Industry                30.00    _            30.00
1UDAL                                                      205.58    2D.42        60.63
of which has been repaid                                   32.01      .82
IUDL now outstndlrg                                        173.57     19.60        -
Aount sold                     4.95
-of ubici  has been repaid    4.95                          0.0
TIVS. now held byr MDA                                     173.57    19.60
TnrAL Undishbrse                                                                  60.63
1/ Les cancellations; prio to exchrng adjustments.
2/ $4.32M of $5.00 M lon was c elled.
B. Statement of IFC Ietnmts (as of Septer 30, 1986)
Year           tTpe of  hosess                            loan         ity      bta
SS4    m        Ll_kr-~
1971      Dnarobln Imi         Tarism                       0.6       -            0.6
& Hotels Ltd.
1986      Sorta Textile Mills Teile producticn              5.0       1.0          6.0
lIUL gross commitment                            5.6       1.0          6.6
LAss canollationB, termtia,
zepaynets and sales                              0.6                    0.6
Net Je     y IEC                                  5.0       1.0         6.0
TNA  Tkdisbursed                                                        6.0



ANNEX III
Page I of 7
- 32 -
CF/B/8/266                                             March 3, 1987
STATEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL POLICY
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable,
1.       It has now been over three years since the Government of Mauritius
issued a Statement of Development Policy, dated September 29, 1983, which
contained a statement of the Government's basic economic strategy and the
policy measures that we intended to take to bring about the necessary
structural adjustment of our economy. The purpose of this letter is to
inform you of the progress which has been made on the policy front over the
past three years, particularly in the industrial and trade policy areas,
and to indicate to you the specific actions we plan to take in the near
future and for which we ask your support through the proposed Industrial
Sector Adjustment Loan.
2.       The main objective of our industrial policy, since the 1960s, has
been to diversify our structure of production heavily dependent on sugar
through the encouragement of manufacturing and.tourism. Initially,
industrial and trade policy measures emphasized import substitution
industrialization. However, for the last fifteen years, Mauritius has been
committed to an export-led industrialization strategy.
3.       Since 1970, when the Export Processing Zone Act was enacted,
Mauritius has been very successful in diversifying its economy into
manufactured exports. The Mauritian economy, particularly the
manufacturing sector, grew rapidly between 1970 and 1977. In the late
1970s and early 1980s however, our economy experienced some economic
problems. The sharp decline in sugar prices in 1976 and the second large
increase in petroleum prices in 1979 led to a rapid deterioriation in
Mauritius' terms of trade and to balance of payments difficulties. The
world wide recession of the 1980s, with the attendant sharp curtailment in
world trade, adversely affected the export-oriented manufacturing sector.
Recent Policy Changes
4.       The growing external imbalances required corrective policies.  As
early as 1979, we embarked on a stabilization and structural adjustment
program for which we obtained support from the IMF through five successive
stand-by ariangements and from the World Bank through two structural
adjustment loans.



ANNEX III
33 -Page 2 of 7
5.   The Stabilization Program that we adopted focused primarily on demand
management policies. Central to the program have been:
a) the adoption of a realistic exchange rate policy that has kept the
real value of the rupee basically unchanged. This was
accomplished through two devaluations of the rupee with respect to
the SDR (of 30 percent in 1979 and 20 percent in 1981) and the
subsequent adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy;
b) a policy of wage restraint;
c) reduction in consumer subsidies;
d) broadening of the tax base and an improvement in tax collection;
e) the rationalization of the public sector investment programme;
f) restrictive credit and monetary policies; and
g) a reduction in the overall fiscal deficit.
6.       The program has succeeded in narrowing the overall budgetary
deficit, in reducing the external current account deficit, and in curbing
domestic inflation.
7.       The Structural Adjustment Program, initiated in 1980 with World
Bank support, focused on supply side issues. In line with our export-led
development strategy, the industry component of our Structural Adjustment
Program, supported a set of medium term policy reforms focusing on: (i)
maintaining and improving the competitiveness of industrial exports; (ii)
equalizing investment incentives to production for exports and for the
domestic market; (iii) attracting new foreign investment and technology to
export manufacturing; and (iv) encouraging private investment by lowering
income cax rates on companies. In this context, we have taken the
following policy actions:
a) In September 1983, we announced that no further quantitative
import restrictions would be granted. By July 1984, quotas on all
commodities subject to tariffs of 30 percent and above had been
removed. The remaining quotas were removed by January 1985;
b) With the elimination of quantitative restrictions, the
justification for price controls largely disappeared.
Consequently, by mid-1985, we had reduced the number of products
subject to maximum price controls from 74 to 8, and the number of
products subject to maximum mark-ups from 40 to 18;
c) We have introduced various important measures in the area of
taxation in order to stimulate production, reduce the incentive to
tax evasion and equalize the incentives offered to export and
import substitution enterprises. The corporate tax rate was
reduced in June 1984 from 66 to 35 percent. In June 1985, we
introduced a new scheme by which the firms established under the
investment incentive schemes may opt to pay a corporate tax rate
of 15 percent applied over the whole life of the company, instead



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 7
of having a period of tax holidays followed by a 35 percent tax
rate. Under this new scheme, dividends are exempt from income tax
for a period of 10 years as of production day. We have also
adopted, since June 1984, a system of corporate tax benefits to
stimulate industrial exports by non-export oriented enterprises,
by which the tax rate is reduced by 2 percentage points for each
10 percent of output exported.
d)  In order to increase male employment in export oriented firms, we
have removed the minimum wage rate for male workers. Previously,
minimum wage rates for male workers were determined by statute and
were higher than those for female workers.
e)  We have stepped up our efforts to stimulate exports and encourage
private local and foreign investment with the creatlon of three
new institutions which are now fully operational.
(i)   The Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
(MEDIA), which has the responsibility for promoting
investment and exports and for developing and operating
industrial sites and estates;
(ii) The Industrial Coordination Unit (ICU) to act as one
stop-shop, providing clearances and permits to potential
investors;
(iii) The Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO) to
promote the development of small scale industries.
f)  Finally, in order to encourage the participation of the private
sector in the development of industrial estates, we introduced in
July 1986 an incentive scheme that provides for lower taxes
applied to industrial estate developers and exempts them from rent
controls.
Effects of the Policy Changes
B.       The policy changes and promotional efforts have paid-off, making
Mauritius well poised to capitalize on a return to normality in world
trade. After growing at an average rate of 4 percent per year between 1980
and 1983, export oriented manufacturing output rebounded strongly in 1984,
growing by an impressive 30 percent per annum in real terms during the last
three years, consequently improving the balance of payments.
9.       The growth in exports is largely attributable to the resurgence of
investment in export oriented enterprises, with the creation of a number of
new firms and the expansion of existing ones. Fixed investment in plant
and equipment reached about US$ 12 million in 1984 and an estimated US$ 18
million in 1985. Thus, resources in Mauritius are moving in the right
direction.
10.      The most remarkable effect of the current export boom has been,
however, the number of new jobs created. Export enterprises generated
12,000 new jobs in 1984, 16,000 in 1985, and 20,000 in 1986. This has
helped reduce unemployment in Mauritius by about six percentage points.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of~ 7
- 35 -
Consolldation of Manufacturing Exports
[1.      Despite the extraordinary growth of manufacturing exports in the
the last three years, several factors still constrain the subsectors' long
term performance. Mouritius has little or no influonce over some of these
constraints, such as the state of the world economy, but others can be
addressed by appropriate government policies.
12.      The foreign exchange reserves position of the country could become
a constraint to the rapid growth of manufacturing exports, due to the fact
that these exports are highly import dependent. Leaps in output, such as
occurred in 1984 and 1985, must be preceded by large increases In the
volume of *w materials and intermediate goods imports. Thus, the
availability of foreign exchange to import the necessary inputs will be a
major determinant of the continuing success of our export drive.
13.      The elimination of quantitative import restrictions, as part of
of our Structural Adjustment Program, was an important step in reducing
protection to import substituting industries. However, consideration will
continue to be given to further reduce protection through gradual
reductions in import tariffs and duties, with a view to improve efficiency
and promote exports.
14.      Our effort to incorporate non-export oriented enterprises into the
export drive has had limited success. First, some import substitution
firms are unable to compete in export markets either directly or indirectly
by providing inputs to export industries. Also, the drawback system is not
yet comprehensive enough in the sense that it does not cover the import
duties paid by local suppliers to export firms, nor the duties on machinery
and equipment used in the production for exports. Furthermore, the system
has not worked well, because of long delays in refunds.
15.      The lack of readily available factory space and serviced sites
could again threaten the growth of exports, as was the case during the
1983-1984 investment surge in export industries. Recent estimates indicate
that some additional 450,000 sq. ft. of factory space will be needed
annually, during the period 1986-90, to accommodate new and expanding
export firms. This is a challenge that requires greater private sector
involvement in the construction of industrial estates.
16.      Finally, Mauritius' manufactured exports are particularly
vulnerable to changing market conditions because they are still
concentrated on a few products and a few markets. Furthermore, access to
some of the markets is becoming more difficult because of trade
restrictions.
Program of Policy Reforms
17.   The policies implemented under the Structural Adjustment Program have
addressed some of the basic industrial sector issues, and gone a long way
towards reducing the distortions of the incentive system. We consider that
now is an opportune time to introduce further changes in industrial policy
in order to achieve greater efficiency in resource allocation. Some of the
actions we intend to take are described below.



ANNEX III
- 36 -                             Page 5 of 7
Reform of the Trade Regime
1l.      As a next step In the proesms of trade liberalization, we have
decided to implement a program of gradual reform of the tariff structure,
reducing, over a period of time, the maximum tariff level on imported
products. This reform will be implemented over time to enable existing
highly protected industries to adjuat to the changed policy environment.
19.      As an Initial stop in the process of carlff reform, in January
1986, we reduced tariffs on transport equipment by an averago of 25
percent. In the next two years we intend to Introduce the following
reforms:
(i)    By June 1987 a celling of 127 percent will be Lmposed on the
rate of duty applicable to lmports from preferential sources
(inclusive of fiscal duty, surcharges and stamp duty). Import
duties applicable to importL from general sources will be
reduced accordingly. Where necessary, compensating excise
duties will be applied to both imported and locally produced
goods to help maintain Goverument revenues. Such a ceiling
will not apply to tobacco, petroleum and tobacco products and
alcoholic beverages.
(ii)   By June 1988 the ceiling on the rate of duty applicable to
imports from preferential source (inclusive of fiscal duty,
surcharges and stamp duty) will be reduced to 107 percent.
Corresponding adjustments will be made In the compensating
excise duties. This new reduction in the ceiling shall apply to
tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, provided,
however, that such reduction may be to a level which shall be
satisfactory to the World Bank and the African Development
Bank.
(iii)  By June 1988 the structure of the tariff schedule will be
simplified. A detailed Plan of Actlon for tfl. implementation
of the simplified tariffs will be ready prior to the date of
effectiveness of the World Bank and the African Development
Bank loans. This simplification will involve merging the
fiscal duties and import surcharges and reducing the number of
tariff brackets.
20.      The tariff ceiling of 107 percent must be been, T*t as an optimum
tariff level, but as a step towards our medium term objective of reducing
protection and encouraging efficiency in the industrial sector. The
government believes that these measures will send a decisive signal to
private investors regarding government's medium term intention as well as
institutionalize a tariff reform process. We also believe that the present
favourable economic conditions, together with the support of the
lnternational community, will allow the economy to absorb the revenue and
balance of payments effect of these measures. We believe however, that we
have to move with some caution and closely monitor the effect of these
measures. To that end, within 18 months after the implementation of the
second tariff reduction, we intend to carry out, iv consultation with the
World Bank and the African Development Bank, a study of the impact of the



ANNEX III
-37 -                      Page 6 of 7
tariff reform on fiscal revenue, balance of payments and the affected
enterprises. On the basis of this monitoring and after exchange of views
with the World Bank and the African Development Bank we propose to pursue a
dialogue with the international community on further tariff reductions.
Discontinuation of the Development Certificate Scheme.
21.      The granting of DC certificates has been curtailed considerably
over the last few years. DC certificates will be granted only in
exceptional cases. The criteria for selecting these cases, as agreed with
the World Bank and the African Development Bank, are set out in an annex to
this letter. The tax holidays of firms holding a valid DC certificate will
contintue, however, to be honoured until their expiration.
Improvement of the Drawback System
22.      In order to provide greater incentlive to exports by non-export
oriented firms, the Drawback System is being considerably improved. An
Export Drawback Unit has been created in the Customs Department. It has
prepared withi help from the IMF recommendations designed to restructure the
scheme by simplifying its administration, by extending the drawback
privileges to indirect exporters and by modifying the duty refund system. A
detailed Plan of Action for the implementation of the Unit's
recommendations will be ready prior to the effectiveness date of the
proposed World Bank and African Development Bank loans. The new system
described therein will become applicable by June 1988.
Elimination of Price Controls
23.      As part of our strategy to rely on market forces and to reduce
costly regulatory activities, we are committed to additional deregulation
of industrial prices. Accordingly, we will reduce, prior to the date of
effectiveness of the proposed loans, the number of items subjected to
maximum mark-ups to not more than four. At a later stage, the Government
will consider reducing further the number of items subjected to maximum
mark-ups.
24.      This is an ambitious and far reaching programme which we have set
for ourselves for the next few years. However, we feel that it is necessary
to introduce these reforms if we want to make optimal use of our country's
comparative advantage in export oriented activities. The proposed loans are
crucial to implement this programme.
We look forward to the support of the international community in
this endeavour.
Yours sincerely,
(S. Lutchmeenaraidoo)
Deputy Prime Miuister and
Minister of Finance



ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
- 38 -
ANNEX
CRITERIA FOR THE GRANT OF DEVELOPMENT CERTIF:CATES
IN EXCEPTIONAL CASES
Whereas the Government has not granted Development Certificates since 1984,
it considers that, for some exceptional cases, there may still be a need to
issue such Certificates. In considering the issue of such exceptional
cases, the Government would be guided, inter alia, by the following
criteria :
(a) the project should be of national or regional importance and in line
with Government's objectives ;
(b) the project should generate substantial amounts of foreign exchange
savings ;
Cc) the project should generate substantial local value added ;
(d) the project has a long gestation period ;
ce) the products manufactured should not be protected by a tariff higher
than 50%, at preferential rate, inclusive of fiscal duties, surcharges
and stamp duty. However, in case of dumping, Government reserves the
right to temporarily take necessary protective measures. Further,
should it be necessary in some cases which are considered to be of
great national importance, to grant Development Certificates for
products enjoying a higher level of tariff protection, Government will
consult the Bank.
The granting of a Development Certificate to a Company will not necessarily
imply the exclusion of granting Certificates to other firms in the same
industry.



- 39 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare program:                24 months
(b)   Preparation by:                               Government of
Mauritius assisted
by Bank-financed
consultants and by
IBRD, ADB and IMF
staff.
(c)   Initial discussions with IBRD:                 March 1985
(d)   Appraisal mission:                             July 1985
(e)   Negotiations:                                 January-March L987
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:                May 1987
II.    Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None
III.   Special Conditions
As conditions of loan effectiveness, the Government would:
(a)   reduce the maximum tariff on imports from preferential sources
to 127 percent, except for petroleum products, tobacco and
tobacco products and alcoholic beverages; corresponding
reduction in maximum tariffs from general sources, without
increase in customs duties (para. 70(a);
(b)   submit a detailed Plan of Action for the simplification of the
tariff schedule (para. 70(b);
(c)   take all necessary actions to institutionalize agreed criteria
to grant Development Certificates only on an exceptional basis
(para. 75);
(d)   submit a detailed Plan of Action for the restructuring of
the drawback system (para. 76); and
(e)   reduce the number of products subject to maximum mark-up to
only four (para. 78).



- 40 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
Prior to tranche release, the Governmnent would:
(a)   reduce the maximum tariffs on imports from preferential
sources to 107 percent. Maximum tariffs on tobacco, tobacco
products and alcoholic beverages would be reduced to the same
level, or to a level satisfactory to the Bank; corresponding
reductLon in maximum tariffs from general sources, without
increase in custom duties (para. 70(a);
(b)   implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Plan of
Action for the simplification of the tariff schedule (para.
70(b); and
(c)   implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Plan of
Action for improvement in the Drawback System (para. 76).



MAAUR IT I US
ANIMF ILdn.    fw,
ttHt.1  lW   A Ak  *n E as
UtZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EFUR I I IbM  
Y  .c.t., Awe  A.lgl <es
r 7"'A\   I~             r   LI K-   -- -----r--A
@/ _4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
-,-r  .._ey{',
_          w- -z     ,=':E~~~~~----A-. g  . 



II
i
I
A



