Page  1
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2791 MAS
                    Loan Agreement
        (Industrial Sector Adjustment Program)
                        between
                       MAURITIUS
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                  Dated July 1, 1987
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2791 MAS
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1987, between MAURITIUS
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated
March 3, 1987, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the industrial sector of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during
such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the
African Development Bank (ADB), a loan (the ADB Loan) in
the principal amount of thirty million Units of Account
of the ADB in support of the Program on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ADB; and
     (C)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided in support of the program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
Page  2
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified
to read:
          "'Project' means the imports and other
     activities that may be financed out of the proceeds
     of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule
     1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the
     Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed f
     or this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank,
     the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
     a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
     the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
     Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
     Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
     the Loan."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard
International Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC,
Rev. 2), published in Commodity Indexes for the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revised, Statistical
Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2 (1981); and
     (b)  "Central Bank" means the Bank of Mauritius,
established and operating pursuant to Bank of Mauritius
Ordinance, 1966, of the Laws of the Borrower, as amended
from time to time.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1989, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
Page  3
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one half percent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.
         (iii) "Semester" means the first six
               months or the second six months of a
               calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) The Central Bank is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the
foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank
with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Loan and for the collection of the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank
in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate
amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                      ARTICLE III
                 Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comment, a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
Page  4
reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all such
action, including the expeditious granting of import
licenses as shall be necessary or convenient to
facilitate the timely importation of the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, the expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, a
               certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said accounts
               and the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     Section 3.05. Pursuant to Section 9.07 (b) of the
General Conditions, the Bank may publish the award of any
contracts, for goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, costing more than the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more in the manner set forth in the said
Section.
     Section 3.06. (a) Within eighteen months following
the release of the second tranche of the Loan pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all necessary action to complete a study of
the impact of the tariff reductions made under the
Program on the balance of payments, fiscal revenue, and
the affected enterprises.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, prior to finalizing the
report of the study, exchange views with the Bank on the
findings of the study, and the final report, taking into
account the comments, if any, of the Bank, shall form the
basis of subsequent periodic exchanges of views between
the Borrower and the Bank concerning further adjustments
in tariffs.
                      ARTICLE IV
            Additional Events of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
Page  5
     (a)  an event has occurred, which shall make it
improbable that the Program or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out; and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any loan
                    made (including the ADB Loan) to the
                    Borrower f or the financing of the
                    Project during the execution of the
                    Program shall have been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in part, pursuant to the terms of
                    the agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
                    termination or prematuring is not
                    caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its
                    obligations under such agreement;
                    and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
                       ARTICLE V
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has reduced the maximum tariff
(fiscal duties, surcharges and stamp duties) on: (i)
imports from preferential sources to one hundred and
twenty-seven percent (127%); and (ii) imports from
general sources, correspondingly, without increasing
customs duties applicable to such imports. The above-
mentioned reductions shall not apply to tobacco and
tobacco products, petroleum, and alcoholic beverages.
     (b)  the Borrower has submitted a plan of action for
the restructuring of the drawback system, satisfactory to
the Bank;
     (c)  the Borrower has submitted a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the simplification of its
tariff schedule including the merger of fiscal duties and
import surcharges and reduction of the number of tariff
brackets;
     (d)  the Borrower has taken all necessary action to
reduce the number of products subject to a maximum mark-
up of no more than four products;
     (e)  the Borrower has taken all necessary
Page  6
governmental action to institutionalize the criteria
agreed with the Bank for the granting of Development
Certificates, on an exceptional basis, under its
Development Certificate Scheme; and
     (f)  the Bank has been notified by ADB that all
conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the ADB
Loan, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified or the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
      Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Minister at the time responsible for
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Government House
          Port Louis
          Mauritius
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINFIN                   4249 EXTERN W
               Port Louis
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               MAURITIUS
               By /s/ Chitmansing Jesseramsing
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the
following SITC groups or sub-groups:
     Group          Sub-group      Description of Items
     112            -         Alcoholic beverages
     121            -         Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                              tobacco refuse
     122            -         Tobacco, manufactured
                              (whether or not con-
                              taining tobacco sub-
                              stitutes)
     525            -         Radioactive and
                              associated materials
     667            -         Pearls, precious and
                              semi-precious stones,
                              unworked or worked
     718       718.7          Nuclear reactors,
                              and parts thereof,
                              fuel elements
                              (cartridges), non-
                              irradiated for
                              nuclear reactors
     897       897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                              silver or platinum
                              group metals (except
                              watches and watch
                              cases) and
                              goldsmiths' or
                              silversmiths' wares
                              (including set gems)
     971       -              Gold, non-monetary
                              (excluding gold ores and
                              concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
     (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts
Page  8
costing less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a
contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Bank shall have
financed or agreed to finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military
or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 for petroleum products.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of $12,500,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
     (a)  with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
the carrying out of the Program; and
     (b)  that the actions described in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Bank is not so
satisfied, and this situation shall not have been
rectified by the Borrower within 90 days after notice
thereof by the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the amount of the Loan unwithdrawn from
the Loan Account or any part thereof.
                      SCHEDULE 2
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1991
     through   November 15, 2003             960,000
On May 15, 2004                             1,000,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.
                Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment            Premium
                         The interest rate (expressed as
                         a percentage per annum)
                         applicable to the balance
Page  9
                         outstanding on the Loan on the
                         day of prepayment multiplied
                         by:
Not more than three years               0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but               0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                 0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not              0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before               1.00
     maturity
                      SCHEDULE 3
                      Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and
the following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8.Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified
     in a timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This
     will be done by advertising invitations to apply
     for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to
     apply for prequalification, or to bid; such
     advertisements should be placed in at least one
     newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's
     country and, in addition, in at least one of the
     following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the United Nations
               publication, Development Forum, Business
               Edition; or
          (ii) an advertisement in a newspaper,
               periodical or technical journal of wide
               international circulation; or
         (iii) a notice to local representatives of
               countries and territories, referred
               to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods
               required."
     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph
2.21 of the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents
     may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
     single currency widely used in international trade
     and specified in the bidding documents."
Page  10
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $2,000,000 each shall be awarded on the
basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contracts
5.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3 and 4
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank
has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
                      SCHEDULE 4
        Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
            of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower has reduced the maximum tariff (fiscal
duties, surcharges and stamp duties) on: (i) imports from
preferential sources from one hundred and twenty-seven
percent (127%) to one hundred and seven percent (107%);
and (ii) imports from general sources, correspondingly,
without increasing customs duties applicable to such
imports.
2.   The Borrower has reduced the maximum tariffs (fiscal
duties, surcharges and stamp duties) on imports of
tobacco and tobacco products and alcoholic beverages:
          (i)  from preferential sources to one hundred
               and seven percent (107%); and
          (ii) from general sources correspondingly,
               without increasing customs duties
               applicable to such imports;
provided, however, that the reductions referred to above
may be made to such other levels which shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   The Borrower has implemented the plan of action for
the restructuring of the drawback system referred to in
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
4.   The Borrower has implemented the plan of action for
the simplification of its tariff schedule referred to in
Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement.
Page  11
