                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 28325




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

       CORALREEF REHABILITATIONAND MANAGEMENTPROJECT
                                   PHASE I
                  (LOAN 43050-INDAND GEF GRANT28373)


                                 March 31,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah

 199811999                1USD= Rp. 10.600              2002            1 USD = Rp. 7.800
 199912000                1 USD= Rp. 7.500              2003            1 USD= Rp. 9.000
 2000                     1 USD = Rp. 5.000             2004            1 USD= Rp. 8.600
 2001                     1 USD = Rp. 7.800


Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADB               Asian Development Bank
APL               Adaptable Program Loan
ANDAL             Environmental Impact Assessment (AnalisaDampak Linkungan)
AusAID            Australian Agency for International Development
BAPPENAS National DevelopmentPlanningAgency (BadanPerencanaan
                  Pembangunan Nasional)
CAS               CountryAssistanceStrategy
CBM               Community-Based Management
COREMAP Coral Reef ManagementProgram
CRMP              CoralReefManagement Plan
DKP               Departmentof Marine Affairs and Fisheries(DepartmentKelautan dun
                 Perikanan
ERR               economicrate of return
GEF               Global EnvironmentFacility
GO1               Governmentof Indonesia
LBRD             International Bank forReconstruction and Development
ICR              Implementation CompletionReport
LIP1             Indonesian Institute of Sciences(LembagaIlmu Ilmu Pengetahuan
                 Indonesia)
MCS              monitoring, controland surveillance
NGO              nongovernmental organization
OED              OperationsEvaluationDepartment
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PMO              Project Management Office
Pokja            Working Group (KelompokKerja)
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report


Fiscal Year

April 1-March 31




Director-General,OperationsEvaluation                 : Mr. GregoryK. Ingram
Director, OperationsEvaluationDepartment              : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sectorand Thematic Evaluation Group          : Mr. AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                          : Mr.Andres Liebenthal

   OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceandindependenceinevaluation.

 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of theWorld Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocess andto verifythat the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience. As part of this work, OED annuallyassessesabout 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to thosethat are
 innovative,large, or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics, andanalyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
 studies.
      A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report(a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowingcountryfor onsitediscussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARtherebyseeks to
 validateand augmentthe informationprovided inthe ICR, as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Oncecleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewedbythe responsibleBank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR isthen
 sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment reporthas been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

 About the OED Rating System
      The time-testedevaluationmethods used by OED are suitedto the broad rangeof the World Bank'swork.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adaptto lendinginstrument,projectdesign, or
                    .OEDevaluatorsallapplythesamebasicmethodto arriveattheir projectratings.Following is
                    ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion (more informationis availableon the OED website:
                    rg/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's
currentdevelopmentprioritiesand with currentBank countryand sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin PovertyReductionStrategy Papers,CountryAssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
OperationalPolicies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extentto which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
account their relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
             ncy: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected ta achieve, a return higher than the
             cost of capitaland benefitsat leastcost compared to alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
              ligible.This ratingis not generallyappliedto adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto riskof net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely,Likely,
Unlikely,HighlyUnlikely,Not Evaluable.
      InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to whicha projectimprovesthe abilityof a countryor region
to make more efficient, equitableandsustainableuse of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
betterdefinition,stability, transparency,enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
betteralignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements.InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intendedand unintended effects of a
                                        ntial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extentto            the project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto be
                                        Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensuredquality at entry and
supported implementationthroughappropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequatetransitionarrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to whichthe borrower assumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
qualityof preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand agreements,towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     ...
                                                                    111



Contents
Preface  .................................................................................................................................   v

PrincipalRatings          .............................................................................................................      ..
                                                                                                                                            vi1

Key StaffResponsible              .....................................................................................................     vu..

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................      ix

Background       ........................................................................................................................     1

Assessment     ..........................................................................................................................     3
        Relevance................................................................................................................. 3
        Eficacy ....................................................................................................................          4
                   Objective (a): Strengthenthe Policy, Strategy. and Legal Framework for
                         Coral Reef Management ........................................................................ 4
                   Objective (b): StrengthenInstitutional Capacity for Coral Reef
                         Management...........................................................................................                5
                   Objective (c): Design and Implement Pilot Community-Based
                         Management in Two Sites ..................................................................... 7
                   Objective (d): Design and ImplementPilot Coral Reef Monitoring,
                         Control, and SurveillanceSystems........................................................                             9
                   Obejctive (e): Design and Launch a Public Awareness Campaign for Coral
                         Reef Management.................................................................................. 9
        Eficiency................................................................................................................ IO
        Quality at Entry......................................................................................................               13
        Supervision.............................................................................................................            13
                   Importance of Adaptabilityand Time for Pilot Projects............................                                         16
                   Need to IntegrateProject Activities with Impact Data Gatheringand
                         Monitoring...........................................................................................               16
                  Need to Assign Full Time Staff for Project Implementation.....................                                             17
                  Need to Provide Techcal Guidanceto Community-basedDecisions.....17
                   Potential for Local FisheriesDevelopment................................................                                  17
                  Potentialfor Greater Empowerment of ParticipatingVillages..................18

Annex A Basic Data Sheet
           .                              ..............................................................................................    19

Annex B: EconomicAnalysis of COREMAP Program                                               ................................................ 23


This report was prepared by Andres Liebenthal. who assessedthe project in September2003.The report
was editedby William Hurlbut. and Soon-WonPak provided administrativesupport.


                                              V


Preface

         This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) of the Coral Reef
Rehabilitationand Management (COREMAP)Project, whxh was supported by IBRD
Loan No. 43050 in the amount of $6.9million and GlobalEnvironmentFacility (GEF)
Trust Fund Grant No. 28373 in the amount of SDR 3.1 million (US$4.1million
equivalent).Theproject was approved on March 31, 1998,and is expected to close on
July 31,2004, following the third extensionfi-omits original closing date of October 31,
2001. The project supportedthe firstphase of the Government of Indonesia's Coral Reef
RehabilitationProgram, which was also supportedby separateprojects of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID).

        Ths report is based on the drafi COREMAPPhase I Final Report,prepared by the
borrower, the Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 17333-W), loan documents,
project statusreports, project financed studies, and discussionswith Bank staff,borrower
staff, project consultants, and representatives of civil society organizationsand local
communitiesinvolved in the project. In September 2003, an Operations Evaluation
Department(OED)missionvisited the project sites in Indonesia in parallel with the final
supervisionand implementationcompletionreport preparation missionundertaken by the
East Asia Region. The collaboration and warm hospitalityof Bank operationalstaff,
government officials, civil societyand communityrepresentativeswho assistedthe
mission are gratefully acknowledged.

        Followingstandard OED procedures,the draftPPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments,but none were received. In accordance with the Bank's disclosurepolicy, the
final report will be availableto the public followingsubmissionto the World Bank's
Board of Executive Directors.


                                                 vii



Principal Ratings
                                ICR*                   ICR Review**                    PPAR
Outcome                         n.a.                         n.a.               ModeratelySatisfactory
Sustainability                  n.a.                         n.a.                   Not Evaluable
Institutional                   n.a.                        n.a.                     Substantial
DevelopmentImpact
Bank Performance                n.a.                        n.a.                    Satisfactory
Borrower                        n.a.                        n.a.                     Satisfactory


* The ImplementationCompletionReportfor COREMAP-I, which had beenscheduledfor completionby late
2003, has been postponed in linewith the extendedclosing date of the project.
** The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division
of the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediateOED productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings
of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Project                        Task Manager/Leader          Division Chief/         CountryDirector
                                                            Sector Director
Appraisal                        Sofia Bettencourt            Geoffrey Fox           Dennisde Tray
 Midterm                         Sofia Bettencourt            MarkWilson               Mark Baird
Completion                        ThomasWalton                MarkWilson             Andrew Steer


                                               ix


 Summary
         The Government of Indonesia launched the Coral Reef Management Program
 (COREMAP)in 1998as a 15-yearprogramwith the objective "to protect,rehabilitate
 and achieve sustainableuse of coralreefs and associatedecosystemsin Indonesiawhich
 will, in turn, enhance the welfare of coastal communities."The program was divided in
 three phases: (i) a 3-year "Initiation" Phase designed to test and develop viable
 community-basedmanagement (CBM) systemsin selectedpilot areas; (ii) a 6-year
 "Acceleration"Phase to build upon and expand CBM systemsto other sites; and (iii) a 6-
 year "Institutionalization"Phase for ensuringthe sustainabilityof program activities. In
 support,the Bank/GEF COREMAPproject has been designed as an adaptableprogram
 loan (APL) in threephases that parallel those of the GOI'sprogram. The objective of
 Phase I of the COREMAPproject (COREMAP-I)was "to establisha viable framework
 for a national coralreef management systemin Indonesia."

         The outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory.%le the project's
relevance is substantialand its efficiencyis high, it was onlymodestly effectivein
 establishing a viable framework for national coralreef management in Indonesia. The
key elements of a supportivelegal frameworkhave been drafted but not officially
approved and enacted.An institutionalcapacityfor coral reef managementhas been
established at the Indonesian Instituteof Sciences (LIPI), but its transfer to the
Department of Marine Affairs and Fisheries (DKP), and its extensionto the district and
community levels is stillunder way and is fraught with risk. The CBM approachwas
implemented in two pilot sites, but the designneeds to be substantiallyrevised to ensure
its sustainabilityfor the longterm and demonstrateits viability.

         The institutionaldevelopment impact of the project is rated substantial.The
project created the institutionalframeworkneeded to implementthe program, including
the nationalPMO, districtworking groups, and village communitygroups.While there
are still areas for improvement, and some of the capacitywill be lost in the transition
from LIPI to DKP, and from Phase I to Phase 11,ths architectureis consistentwith the
decentralization strategyof the GOI, replicable as COREMAP expands, and adaptableto
local customs and circumstances.

        The sustainabilityof the project is not evaluable at this time. While the economic
justification for COREMAPis robust,because of the high global benefits of protecting
Indonesia's coralreef diversity,insufficient informationis availabletojudge the
resilienceto risk of the other major factorsthat need to be considered.

        The Bank's performanceis rated satisfactory.The preparation of the project was
underpinnedby extensiveanalysis,and GO1ownership was strong. The design of the
project was unusuallycomplex, but responded to the needs of the strategy and the lack of
a robust institutionalcounterpart.Supervision focused on developmentimpact and
responded flexiblyto drastic changesin institutional and country conditions.

        Theborrower's performanceis rated satisfactory.The GO1committedin the mid-
1990sto a community-based coral reef management strategy,and supportedit steadfastly
while slowlycreatingthe policy and institutionalframeworkneeded to implement it.

                                             X


Nevertheless,progress in the approvaland enactmentof the policy, strategy, and legal
frameworkhas been slow,with attendantrisks for the sustainabilityof the program, and
donor coordinationwas inadequate.

      Four lessons emergefrom the experienceof the project:

      Imuortance ofAdautabiZitvand CautionforPilot Projects: As the pilot for a
      three-phaseAPL, the subjectproject was designed with ample allowances for
      flexibilityand learning. Even so, the project required three extensions from its
      originalcompletion date, and severalkey requirementsfor the long-term success
      of COREMAPremain incomplete and untested. In addition, the sustainabilityof
      the CBM-centeredstrategyhas not been demonstrated. Thispoints to the need for
      adaptabilityand caution in regard to the expansion of the COREMAPprogram in
      Phase 11,until the viability of the approachhas been established.

      Need toIntegrateProject Activities with Im-pactData Gatheringand Monitoring:
      A major flaw inproject implementationwas the lack of coordinationbetween
      project activitiesand the baseline surveys and monitoringprovisions. Unless this
      is corrected,it will not be possible to determineproject impact and validate the
      rationale for the CBM strategy,even in the long term. This unsatisfactory state of
      affairscould have been avoided with the assignment of managers with
      geographicalresponsibilities to ensure that the differentcomponents are
      effectivelyintegrated at all locations.

      Need toAssign Full-TimeStaffforProjectImplementation:The PMO's extensive
      reliance on part-time staffweakened the controland direction of the technical
      aspects of the project, and encouraged a situationwhere most of the work was
      done by consultantsand contractors. This contributedto delays in project
      implementation,inadequate technicalsupervision of and integrationbetween
      project components, and limited transfer of knowledgefrom consultantsto
      national staff.Many of these problems could have been avoided with the
      appointment of full-timestaff forproject implementation.

      Need to Provide Technical Guidanceto Community-basedDecisions: %le
      community empowermentis central to CBM, it can lead to poor decisions,as
      indicated by the findings about thepoor biodiversityqualityin one of the
      sanctuaries,the failure of seaweedcultureprojects, and investments in unviable
      electrificationschemes.Thispoints to the need to ensurethat community-based
      decisionsare informedby soundtechnical guidance.



                                                              GregoryK. Ingram
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                               1


 Background

 1.      Indonesia is the world's largest archipelago,with more than 17,000islands and an
 81,000-kilometercoastlinerich in coral reefs, seagrasses, and mangroves. Its marine
 environmentis one of the richest of the world, with about 2,500 species of mollusks,
 2,000 species of crustaceans, 6 species of sea turtles, 30 of marine mammals, and more
 than 2,000 species of fish. It has approximately42,000 squarekilometers of coral reefs,
 or 16percent of the world'stotal. With over 70 genera and 450 species recorded,
 Indonesialies at the center of the world's coralreef diversity.

 2.      Coral reefs are a major productive and aesthetic asset,playing a key role in
 fisheries,marine tourism, and coastalprotection.Healthyreefs are an importantsourceof
 food and economicopportunitiesfor some 67,500coastal villages in Indonesia.Coral
 reefs also play an important role in marine-based tourism, attractingdivers and providing
 white sand for beaches. In addition,fringing coralreefs dissipatewave energy, thereby
 protectingcoastallands from storms and wave erosion.

 3,     Despite their importance, Indonesia's coralreefs are under seriousthreat from
poison and blast fishing, overfishing,sedimentation, and pollution.In a 1994survey,the
 Indonesian Instituteof Sciences (LIPI) found 70 percent of the sitesto be in poor to fair
 condition.The onlyknown study of coralreef degradation over time, in Pulau Seribuoff
Jakarta Bay, shows a steady declineof 3-6 percent a year in live coral reef cover since
 1969.Urgent management interventionswere therefore needed to protect Indonesia's
reefs.

4.      Thekey issues for coral reef managementwere identifiedas: (i) poor management
of existing threats; (ii)unclear institutionalmandates and inadequate institutional
capacity;(iii) a weak policy and legal framework; and (iv) insufficientinformation.The
major threats-overfishingand destructivepractices(blast and poison fishing)-are
exacerbatedby a high demand formarine products, opportunitiesfor substantialprivate
gains,weak enforcement of existinglaws, and an open-accessregimethat discourages
communityaction.Responsibilityfor managing Indonesia's marine areaswas dispersed
through numerous government agencies. Policies and regulations followed sectoral
priorities, and failed to properly address coastalissues. Legal loopholessuch a
prohibitingcyanide (poison) fishingbut allowingcyanideuse to tranquilize fish made it
extremelydifficultto enforce existinglaws,Finally, informationrequired for marine
management was fragmented and difficultto access.

SECTOR    STRATEGY
5.      The community-basedmanagement (CBM) approachwas chosenbased on the
realizationthat government agenciescannot effectivelymanage the extensivecoral reef
areas without the close involvement of coastalvillages. The CBM design is based on the
followinglessons gained from similarprograms in the region: (i) habitat managementin
the form of reef sanctuaries (no-takezones) is generallymore effectivethan management
aimed at specific stocks;(ii) reef management has been most successfulwhere
communitieshave been organizedand empowered to manage local reef resources; (iii)
reef management systemsneed to be flexible and adaptable, building upon local

                                             2


ecologicalknowledge and traditionalmanagement systems;(iv) external threatsneed to
be addressedthrough effectiveenforcement;(v) reef managementhas been most
successfulwhen local stakeholdersderive quick and direct economicbenefits fromreef
management; and (vi) local support shouldbe established first for a limited set of clear
and achievable goals of direct interestto localpeople.

6.      It was also realized that the CBM approachcould not be successfulwithout a
supportingframework to contain externalthreats. This frameworkneeded to include: (i)      ,
an effectivenational strategyfor coral reef management; (ii) secureuser rights for coastal
communities; (iii) effectiveenforcementto protect communities against external threats;
(iv) increased awareness among decisionmakers of the threats fzcingthe reefs; and (v)
strengthenedmanagement capacity.

PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

7.      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) launchedthe Coral Reef Management
Program (COREMAP)in 1998as a 15-yearprogram with the objective"to protect,
rehabilitate and achievesustainableuse of coral reefs and associated ecosystems in
Indonesiawhich will, in turn, enhancethe welfare of coastalcommunities."Theprogram
was divided in threephases: (i) a 3-year"Initiation" Phase designed to test and develop
viable CBM systemsin selectedpilot areas; (ii) a 6-year "Acceleration" Phase to build
upon and expand CBM systemsto other sites; and (iii) a 6-year"Institutionalization"
Phase for ensuringinstitutional(administrative,economic, and financial)sustainabilityof
program activities.In support, the Bank/GEF COREMAPproject has been designed as an
adaptableprogram loan (APL) in three phases that parallelthose of the GOI'sprogram.
COREMAPhas alsobeen fundedby loans from the ADB and grants fiom AusAID.

8.     The development objectiveof Phase I of the COREMAPprogramwas "to
establisha viable framework for a national coralreef management systemin Indonesia."
In support,the specificobjectivesof the Bank/GEF COREMAP I project were to:

           Strengthenthe nationalpolicy, strategicplanning and legal framework for
           coral reef management;

           Strengthenthe institutionalcapacityfor coral reef management sufficientlyto
           enable expansionof the COREMAPprogram;

           Design and test pilot CBM in two sites (TakaBone Rate NationalPark in
           South Sulawesiand Lease Islands in Maluku);

           Test and evaluatemodels of coral reef monitoring, control and surveillance
           (MCS) systems at the national level and in target provinces; and

           Design and launchnational and local public awarenesscampaigns for coral
           reef management.

                                                     3


 9.        The BanMGEFproject was coordinatedwith parallel projects by other donors:`

      (a)     A national coral reef information,research, and monitoring system and Coral
              Reef Information and TrainingCenters (fbndedby ADB);

      (b)    National capacitybuilding and training (funded by AusAID);

      (c)    Pilot CBM and enforcementin SenayangIslands, Riau (fundedby ADB), and
             Kupang Bay, East Nusa Tenggara (fundedby AusAID); and

      (d)    Initial CBM activities in sixprovinces (fundedby GOI).

 10.       These objectives did not change. However, political turmoil and poor security
 conditionsled to the termination of initial CBM activitiesin Maluku and Kupang, and
 their substitutionby new pilot CBM sites in the Padaido Islands in Papua (fundedby the
 Bank), and Maumere Bay in East Nusa Tenggara (fundedby AusAid).



Assessment

OUTCOME

 11.      The outcome of the project is moderatelysatisfactory.While the project's
relevance is substantial and its efficiencyis high, it was onlymodestlyeffectivein
establishinga viable framework for national coral reef management in Indonesia. The
key elementsof a supportivelegal frameworkhave been drafted, but not officially
approved and enacted.An institutional capacityfor coralreef management has been
established with LPI, but its transfer to the Department of MarineAffairs and Fisheries
(DKP), and its extension to the district and communitylevels is still under way and is
fraught with risk. The CBM approach and the MCS componenthave been implemented
in two pilot sites,but the designneeds to be substantiallyrevised to ensuretheir
sustainabilityfor the long term and document its benefits.

Relevance

12.      The relevance of the project is substantial.Its objectivesare more consistentwith
past CAS objectives,which gave higher priorityto sustainableresourcemanagement,
than those of the current CAS,which focus on improvingthe climate for investmentand
making service deliveryresponsiveto the needs of the poor. Nevertheless,the project's
focus on policy and legal reform, strengthenedenforcement, creatingdemand for good
governanceat the local level, and close collaborationwith other donorsand NGOs is
supportiveof the current CAS. In addition, the project is also consistent with the three
broad objectivesof the Bank's Environment Strategy:(i) improvingpeople's qualityof
life, (ii) improvingthe prospects for and qualityof growth; and (iii) protectingthe quality


1.These activitiesare mentioned for context only and are not evaluated in the report.

                                                       4


 of the regional and global environmentalcommons.Finally, the project is consistent with
 the GEF's Operational Strategy, in particular the OperationalProgram on Marine,
 Coastal and Freshwater Ecosystems.*

 Efficacy

 13.       The efficacy of the project is modest. Following a slow start, remarkableprogress
 was achieved under difficultcircumstances.A national strategy, and the key elements of
 the supportive legal framework, havebeen drafted and discussed, but they are yet to be
 officiallyapproved and enacted.An institutional capacity for implementing the
 COREMAPprogram has been establishedwith LIPI, but its transferto DKP, who will be
 responsible for Phase 11,is still underway, and the transition is fraughtwith risk. A lot has
 been learned from the implementation of the CBM approachin the two pilot sites,but the
 designneeds to be revised to ensure its sustainabilityin the long term and replicabilityin
 other sites. The MCS componentwas successfwllyimplementedin the two pilot sites,but
 much remainsto be done to make it financially sustainable. The followingsections
 review the efficacy of the project to achieve specificproject objectives.

 Objective (a): Strengthen the Policy, Strutegy, and Legal Frameworkfor CoralReef
Management

 14.       Theproject supported the objective of strengtheningthe nationalpolicy and
 strategyframeworkby drafting a National Policy and Strategyfor Coral Reef
Managementin Indonesia, and sponsoringa series of national and provincial consultative
workshops for its preparation. The draft addresseskey issues and highlightsthe
importance of community-basedmanagement. The DKP is reviewingthe document for
eventual adoption as nationalpolicy. At this point, it is still awaitingofficial endorsement
in the form of a ministerialletterrecommendingthe implementation of the strategyto
relevant agencie~.~

15.       The strengtheningof the legal frameworkfor coralreef management was pursued
through the preparationof 7 drafts of legislation and 12legal papers. At the national
level, the most important were inputs provided to DKP for the draftingof the revised
Fisheries Act and the CoastalZone Management and SmallIslands Act, both of which
are being discussed with legal experts fi-omrelevant agencies and the State Secretariat
(SekretariatNegara) in preparationof their submission to the National Legislature
(DewanPenvakilan Rabat).A major focus was the strengtheningof provisions to curb
illegal and destructivefishingpractices (such as blasting and poisoning), and the
clarificationand coordination(cross-authorization)of enforcementjurisdictions in coastal
areas.


2. Talung the diversity of country, sectorand global (GEF) strategies into account,the relevance of the
specificobjectives can be rated as follows: (a) strengthenthe nationalpolicy, strategicplanning and legal
frameworkfor coralreef management-substantial;(b) strengthenthe institutionalcapacityfor coralreef
management-substantial;(c) designand pilot CBM-high; (d)test and evaluatemodels ofMCS -lugh;
and (e) designand launchpublic awareness campaigns for coral reef management-substantial.
3. Tlus is one of the output indicatorsfor effectivenessof Phase 11.

                                                      5


 16.      At the district level, the proposed legalreforms focused on the coordination of the
 enforcement of fisheriesand coastal zone regulations and on securinguser rights for
 coastalcommunities. Thesereformswere pursued in both pilot areas.

 17.      In SouthSulawesi,this effort concentratedon the preparation of a district law for
 the coordination of monitoring, control, and surveillance (MCS) activities for the Taka
 Bone Rate National Park and surroundingareas in SelayarDistrict.Extensive
 consultationswere held with all key stakeholders,including local representatives of the
 Fisheries and Marine Affairs Agency, the National Parks Authority, Police, Navy, district
 legislature, NGOs, village and subdistrictheads, and representatives of local
 communities. The end product, a draft district law on "TheUtilizationof the
 Conservation Area in Taka Bone RateNational Park"has been submittedto the Selayar
District Legislature for approval.

 18.     In Papua, the legal reform effort aimed at the institutionalizationof local rules and
customsfor marine resourcemanagement in the traditionalvillages of Padaido Islands
and East Biak, in Biak District.After three and a half years of extensiveconsultations
with representatives of the local communities and churches, village and sub-district
heads, localNGOs, members of the Biak Customary Counciland district legislators, a
draft District Law has been prepared and submitted to the Biak District Legislature for
approval.

19.      Overall, the project made substantialprogress in conceptualizing, drafting,
disseminating,and gaining acceptanceforkey elementsof the legal frameworkneeded to
support the implementationof a CBM-centeredstrategyfor coral reef management. The
fact that the entire set of draft legislation has been produced in a participatorymanner and
proceeded to the point of being submitted to the legislativebodies is a major
ac~omplishment.~On the other hand, as long as the needed legislationhas not been
enacted, there is no assurancethat the key language will be incorporatedin the national
laws and the complementarylocal laws will be passed. Theproject's efficacyin pursuing
this objectivewas modest.

Objective(b):StrengthenInstitutional Capacityfor CoralReef Management

20.     The specific objective for Phase I was to develop sufficientinstitutionalcapacity
for coralreef managementto enable the expansionof the program in Phase I1at the
national and local levels, and its eventualmainstreaming into line agencies. The approach
taken was to establisha national Program Management Office (PMO) at the Indonesian
National Instituteof Sciences(LIPI) in Jakarta, and provincial and district-levelworking
groups (Pokjas)made up of relevant agencyrepresentativescoordinatedby the provincial
and districtplanningbureaus (BAPPEDAs),supplementedby staff fi-omlocal NGOs and
universities. In 1999, a decisionwas made to transferresponsibilityfor COREMAP
Phase I1to the newly createdDKP, but leaveLIPI in chargeofPhase I until its
conclusion.



4. The outputindicatoris that the draftlegislationbe completedand submittedto the National Legislature.

                                                     6


 21.      At the national level,by the end of Phase I the PMO included a full-timeDirector,
part-timeAssistant Directors to manage the technical teams for monitoring, control, and
 surveillance(MCS),public communications,the CoralReef Information and Training
 Centers(CRTICs), and CBM, and part-time staff secondedfrom LIP1and DKP for the
 technical teams. The extensiverelianceon part-time staff significantlyreduced the ability
 of managers and staffto maintain control and directionover the technicalaspectsof the
project, and encouraged a situationwhere most of the work was done by consultantsand
contractorswith little integrationbetween consultantsand PMO technical staff.This
resulted in significant delays in project implementation,inadequate integrationbetween
different project components, and limited transfer of knowledge from consultantsto
national staff.

22.      At the local level, COREMAPworking groups (Pokjas)had been establishedin
the districtgovernmentswith staff from relevant agenciesand local NGOs involved in
the project.By the time of the mission, the two pilot districtsof Selayar (for Taka Bone
Rate) and Biak (forPadaido) had activePokjas with a track record of regular meetings,
effectiveinter-agency coordination,project management,progressreports, support from
the District Chiefs (bupatis)and positive engagementwith the District Legislatures.

23.      Another issue relates to the fact that the PMO was organized along thematic lines,
with assistant directors and technical teams responsiblefor MCS, CRTICs, CBM, and
public communicationsfor the entire COREMAPprogram, without geographical
responsibilities.This contributedto inadequate integrationof the program components,
with the result that, as found by the mission, there was no coordinationbetween CBM
and MCS activities at the two pilot siteswith the socioeconomicand reef health surveys
conducted by the CRTICs at the same locations. This result could have been avoidedwith
the assignment of managers with geographical responsibilitieswho could have ensured
that the different components are effectivelyintegratedat all location^.^

24.      Overall,while Phase I has shown the feasibilityof its organizationalmodel for
project implementation,the sustainabilityof this approach as a model for capacity
building remains to be demonstrated, giventhe high turnover rate of participating agency
staff, at the national and districtlevels, and the fact that most of these effortswere
supported by consultants and financedby project funds.Themainstreamingof
institutionalcapacity for coral reef management in relevant line agenciesat the national
and district levels remains a major issue to be addressed in Phase 11.On this basis, the
project's efficacywith this objectiveis rated modest.




5. The assignmentof a "provincial coordinator"was attemptedin SouthSulawesi,but his effectivenesswas
hampered by the GOI's institutionalframework at the time, which gave the provincialgovernmentlittle
authorityto coordinate across sectoralministries.Followingthe recent decentralizationof the GOI, the
authorityofprovincial and districtgovernmentsto coordinatesectoralactivitiesin theirjurisdictions is
much greater.

                                                          7


 Objective (c): Design and Implement Pilot Community-Based Management in Two
 Sites

 25.        The CBMProcess: The design and implementationof the CBM approach in two
 pilot siteswas the central objective of the project. This involved a complex series of steps
 includingthe development of CBM guidelines,the contracting of a local NGO to
 implement the approach at each site, and for eachparticipating village: (i) the
 participatoryformationof community groups and selection of community-based
 motivators; (ii) theparticipatorydevelopmentof a coral resourcesmanagementplan
 (CRMP) and proposals for the utilization of village grants (for example, for village
 infrastructure) and establishment of seed funds; (iii)the approval, implementation, and
 managementof the CRMPs, and village proposals for infrastructure and seed funds; and
 (iv) the establishment of baselines and monitoring arrangementsfor coral reefs and
 socioeconomicdevelopment. Participatingvillages would be eligible for block grants (up
 to a total of Rp. 150millionper village), with 30 percent payableupon approval of the
 CRMP, 30 percent upon approval of the village grant utilization proposal, and the
 remainder upon implementationof the CRMP.

 26.       By the time of the assessment mission, in September2003, the CBM approach
 had been nearly fully implemented at the fivevillages in Taka Bone Rate but, due to a
 delayed start,onlypartly implemented at six villages in Padaido.Each participating
villagehad elected three motivators,formed three community groups (for reef
 conservation,production activities,and women), formulated a CRMP with an identified
sanctuary(no-take zone) and community-based"reef watchers" to monitor fishing
activitiesin village waters and report on violations of the sanctuaryor illegal activities
(blastingand poisoning).In Taka Bone Rate, the villages had also largelyimplemented
theirblock grant proposals. In Padaido,they were still at the preparation and review stage
and the block grantshad not yet been disbursed.

27.       Preliminary Results: Overall, while the project has largelysucceededin designing
the CBM approach and implementingit in the two pilot sites, its efficacyis modest, as it
is still too earlyto establishif the piloted design is sustainableand will yield the expected
benefits in terms of village development and coralreef protection.In Taka Bone Rate, 12
of the block grants were invested in village improvements such as communitymeeting
places, clean water reservoirs, and diesel-based electrificationschemes. While these
choicesreflect clear villagepriorities, the electrification schemeshave not been designed
to adequatetechnical standards,and are not being managed in a financially sustainable
way.6They pose shock and fire hazards, and are certain to fail. In hindsight, it is evident
that such investmentsshouldnot have passed the technical reviewprocess of the NGOs
and PMOS,and that alternativeapproaches,includingsolarphotovoltaichome systems,
would have been more appropriate.'


6. E.g., tariffs do not cover operating costs, and there is no provisionfor equipment maintenance, repair and
replacement.
7. Some lessons may be learned fromthe experience with similar systems in remote Pacific island
countries. See: SolarEnergy: Lessons fromthe Pacific Island Experience,by A. Liebenthal,S. Mathur and
H. Wade, World Bank TechnicalPaper 244 -Energy Series,Washmgton, 1994.

                                                        8


 28.       The experiencewith the use of seed funds for the establishmentof community
 revolvingcredit schemeshas been much more favorable. The fundshave been used by
 groups and individuals for a variety of purposes, includingthe purchase of nets and other
 fishingtools, establishment of small shops, seaweedculture,and fish storage and
 transport.Simplebut soundrecord keeping systemswere establishedin every village,
 with the individualloans and repayments displayed in village communitycentersto
 provide transparency and accountability. In most of the villages, aportion of the interest
 incomehas been set aside as a contribution to support coral reef conservation and
 monitoringactivities(that is, pay for the reef-watchers).The repayment rate has reached
 63 percent, with most of the shortfall due to the failureof three seaweed cultureprojects'
 (in one village) and lack of realization that that the fundswere to be repaid (in one
 village).

 29.      On the conservation side, the mission identified several criticalissues that need to
 be addressed in the follow-onPhase I1project:

          Lack of Integration Between Project Activities and Baseline Data: The mission
          found that there was no correlationbetween the sanctuariesidentified in the
          village CRMPs and the stations(line intercept transects)used for the reef health
          statusbaseline surveys. Without coordinationbetween baselineobservation
          stations, reef sanctuary locations, and control sites, it will not be possible to
          determinethe impact of the COREMAP, even in the longterm.

          Incomdete Program Baselines: A review of the baseline socioeconomicand
          biophysical surveys9indicatesthat they did not includeinformation about the
          fishingpressurebeing exerted in the waters surroundingthe pilot sites," and
          about the qualityof the coralreefs as a whole, rather thanjust at specific
          stations. Without suchbaseline data, the criticalmass of scientificinformation
          needed to establishwhether COREMAP will be acheving its expectedbenefits
          over time does not exist.

          Inadeauate Oualitv Control of Sanctuaries: One of three sanctuaries inspectedby
          the mission covered an areawhere the coral had alreadybeen destroyed. That is, it
          had no biodiversityvalue." This again (seepara. 27) points to weaknesses in the

8. Due to poor site selectionand unsuitable cultivationtechniques.
9. Thebaseline socioeconomicandbiophysical surveys were undertakenunder a complementaryproject
fundedby the ADB and managedby the COREMAPPMO throughthe establishment of districtand
national-levelCoralReef Information and Training Centers, as noted inpara 9.
10.E.g., suchinformationas fish stocks,number of active fishermen;number, sue andtype of fishmg
vessels; type size and number of fishmggear used; fish speciessought and caught, and marketprices for
differenttypes of fish.
11.E.g., suchinformationas speciesdiversity, speciesdistribution,identificationof habitattypes, and
overall quality of the reef. Thereis also the issuethat most of the line intercepttransect stations were
located at the reef edge, which tends to be the area richest in biodiversity,but do not constitute a
representative sample of the coralreef as a whole.
12.Inprinciple, a degraded siteis not necessarily a bad choice for a sanctuary,as it can serveas a
demonstrationsite for how quickly corals and fisheriesrecover following their closure.But given the
absenceof baseline data on the sanctuarysuch a rationaleis not supported by the evidence. Rather, in the

                                                      9


          technical guidanceprovided by the localNGO, and in the technical review
          process of the PMOS.

 Overall efficacyof this objectiveis rated as modest.

 Objective(d): Design and Implement Pilot CoralReef Monitoring, Control, and
Surveillance Systems

 30.      This objective was pursuedby designing and piloting a MCS model that involved:
 (i) the organization and empowermentof community-based"reef watchers" to patrol the
 reefs and act as the eyes and ears of the system, and (ii) back up by law enforcement
 agenciesto capture and prosecutethe violators. The implementationof this approach
required coordinationwith the CBM component,which underpinned the community's
 supportof the reef-watcherprogram, and the relevant enforcement agencies,including
DKP, the coastalpolice, the navy,13and the park guards (in the Taka Bone Rate National
Park).14For the two pilot sites,these units were provided with equipment,including
speedboats,transport vessels,radar, radios, Global Positioning Systems (GPS), and
cameras, as well as operationalmanuals, guidelines, and training. At the national level,
the MCS componentwas managed from 2000by the DKP's DirectorateGeneral of
Surveillance.

31.       By the time of the mission, this model appearedto be functioningreasonablywell
at the local level, and its efficacyis rated substantial. Of particularnote were the
successful arrests, prosecution,andjailing of illegal fishers at both Taka Bone Rate and
Padaido,and a reported reductionby MCS of illegalbombing and cyanidefishing.The
main issue relates to the financial sustainabilityof this approach,since the district
governments only have the budget to keep MCS activitiesgoing at a much reduced scale
after the project is completed. There is also a problem with the GO1budget process,
which results in no operation and maintenance fundsbeing available at the start of the
fiscal year, thus causing the MCS operations to cease for severalmonths every year and
reducing the credibilityand effectiveness of the program. The efficacyof this objectiveis
rated as substantial.

Obejctive (e):Design and Launch a Public Awareness Campaignfor CoralReef
Management

32.       Theproject financed a public awareness campaign to promote the need for
sustainablecoral reef management and encouragethe adoption ofpositive behavior. Its
efficacywas substantial.The campaign involved numerous activities, includingtwo live
nationaltelevision shows,pamphlets, mobile displays at six national exhibitions,
productionof popular songs,radio and TV spots,teacher kits and training, on thejob

absenceof technicalguidance, it is quite possible that the communitysimplychose the site so they could
benefit fromCOREMAP funds with minimum loss of fishmgrevenue.
13.In general,the coastalpolice havejurisdiction within 4 nautical miles (nm) of the coast, the DKP
between 4 and 12nm,and the navy beyond 12nm.
14.The park guardshavejurisdiction w i t h the boundaries of the (Taka Bone Rate) national park.

                                                   10


 trainingand thesis support for university students, and contests and games for elementary
 school students.The qualityof the campaignwas recognizedby its receipt of a Golden
 Quill Award from the International Associationof Business Communicatorsin 2002, and
 its effectivenesswas documentedby before and after surveysin target areas. The mission
 was particularlyimpressed by the high level of activities that continued followingthe
 completionof the consultant contract (in November2002), a good indication of the
 sustainabilityof the campaign. OED rates efficacy for this objectivehigh.

 Efficiency

 33.     The efficiencyof the project is high. Its appraisalwas underpinned with an
 unusually thorough and detailedeconomic analysis of coral reef degradationin
 Indonesia," which was updated for the (draft) appraisal of the Phase I1project (see
 Annex B). The analysis considered the potential net benefits of healthy coral reefs in the
 form of sustainablefisheries,coastalprotection (erosioncontrol), tourism and recreation,
 and estimatesthe extent to which these benefits will be affected by ongoing damage
 trends, includingpoison fishing,blast fishing, coralmining, sediments(from logging and
 mining activities),and overfishing. The analysis also considered the sensitivityof these
 benefit estimatesto assumptions about fish yields over time, which will depend on the
 effective enforcement of CRMPs. On this basis, the region (in its draft ICR) estimates
 that the economic rate of return (ERR) for the Taka Bone Rate site is 19percent, with a
 `high'estimateof 49 percent and a `low'one of 1percent. The ERR for the Padaido site
 is 12percent, with a `high'of 23 percent and a `low'of 1percent. The ERR for the Taka
Bone Rate site is comparable to that obtained at appraisal, of 17percent in the `standard'
 scenario.l6

34.      In the view of the assessmentmission, the ERR methodologyis exemplary and
represents a model for other biodiversityprojects, for which economicanalyses have
been sparse, mainly due to the difficultyof obtaining adequatedata. Faced with this same
difficulty, the project team searchedthe literature for applicabledata and identified
necessary and defensibleassumptions. While some of the data and assumptions canbe
questioned,their strengthsand weaknesses are transparentlydiscussedin the project's
appraisal document, and partiallytaken into account for the sensitivityanalyses. Finally,
the fact that the ERR is based on `local'benefits, and doesnot includethe `global'
benefits of coral biodiversityprotection,for which some estimatesare higherby an order
of magnitude," suggeststhat the ERRSare conservative.

35.     It is, nevertheless,unfortunate that the baseline surveys and monitoring
arrangements for the project have not contributed the informationneeded to update and


15.See Cesar, H. S. J., (1996):EconomicAnalysis oflndonesian CoralReef. WorkingPaper Series"Work
in Progress", World Bank, WashingtonDC.
16.The appraisalhas no estimate for the Padaidosite, whch was added later.
17.SeeRuitenbeek, J. (1999):Blue Pricing of Undersea Treasures-Needs and Opportunitiesfor
EnvironmentalEconomicsResearch on CoralReef Management in South East Asia. Paper presented to the
12thBiannual Workshop of the EnvironmentalEconomicsProgram for SouthEast Asia, Singap[ore,11-14
May, IDRC, Singapore.

                                              11


 validatethe economicrationale for the COREMAPprogram. This points again to the
 importanceof establishingbaselines of and monitoring information aboutthe fishing
 pressure being exerted in the waters surroundingthe pilot sites, and about the qualityof
 the coralreefs as a whole, as discussed in para. 28.

 INSTITUTIONAL     DEVELOPMENT     IMPACT

 36.     The institutional developmentimpact of the project was substantial. Theproject
 supported the GOI's decision to designate the newly created DKP as the agency
 responsiblefor the equitable and sustainablemanagement of coral reef resources, where
 therehad been none before. Theproject also createdthe entire institutionalframework
 needed to implementthe program, including the national PMO, the districtpokjas, and
 the village community groups. While there are still areas for improvement, and there is a
 risk that some of the capacitywill be lost in the transitionfrom LIPI to DlSP, and from
 Phase I to Phase 11,this architecture is consistent with the institutional decentralization
 strategyof the GOI, replicable as COREMAPexpands, and adaptableto local customs
 and circumstances. It constitutes a major achievement.

 37.     The full impact of the strengthened legal and policy framework for coral reef
management is not evaluableat this time, sinceit has not yet been officiallyenacted, and
the baseline information is inadequate.For the MCS component, indicationsare that
 enforcementpressure has increased. In 2003, the MCS program has been successfulin
 apprehending and prosecuting 10violators in Taka Bone Rate and 9 in Padaido. Other
apprehensionshave been made, but turned over to village authoritiesin the belief that the
applicationof customary (adat)sanctionswould be more effectivethan ajail term. For
the CBM component,there is some evidence that the participatoryCRMPs, village grant
proposals and implementation, and revolving fund credit schemeshave strengthened
community-based decision-makingprocesses, and involved them in lobbyingfor
communityuser rightswith the districtlegislature.

38.     The impact of theproject is also reflected in the abandonment of plans for an oil
refineryon Selayar, about 50 miles from Taka Bone Rate National Park. When a proposal
to establish a 150,000-barrel-per-dayrefinerywas announced in 1999,the Chairman of
LIPI, on behalf of the COREMAPprogram, wrote to the President of Indonesiato inform
him of the legal requirement for a prior environmental assessment (ANDAL), and of the
need to involve COREMAP as a stakeholder.The COREMAPteam invitedthe Bank to
comment on the ANDAL, which it found to be seriouslydeficient.Theproject sponsors
were then reported to be planning a new ANDAL, to internationalstandards. A year later,
the proposed site for the refinerywas moved to anotherpart of Sulawesi.

SUSTAIN   ABILITY

39.     The sustainabilityof the project is not evaluableat this time. Overall, while the
economicjustification for COREMAPis robust, not onlybecause of the local benefits but
alsobecause of the high global benefits of protecting Indonesia's coralreef diversity,
insufficientinformationis available tojudge the resilienceto risk of the other major
factorsthat need to be considered. This is not surprising,consideringthat the projectwas

                                              12


onlydesigned to supportthe first (`Initiation')phase of a long-termprogram,but it points
to a number of areas where urgent actionis needed to ensurethat benefits of the program
will be sustainable.

40.      The technicaland environmentalsustainabilityof the project cannotbe evaluated
in the absence of adequatebaseline surveysthat are coordinatedwith the impact and
control areas of the project,both for the CBM and MCS components, and cover the
critical mass of scientificinformationneeded to establishthe benefits of the COREMAP
program. Given the long timeframe required for the expected benefits (in terms ofreef
health, village incomes, etc.) to materialize, these baselines need to be established as soon
as possible.

41.     The fiscal and financial sustainabilityof the program cannot be evaluated, since
COREMAP'Stransfer to DKP and the district and village governments is still under way.
While each of the entitieshas expressed an interest in the continuationof the program
and a willingness to sharein its costs, the adequacyof the budgetaryprovisions,
particularly for the enforcement support component of the program,has not been
established.At the communitylevel, the continued operation of the revolvingcredit
schemesappears to be consistentwith local customs and capacities,but the electrification
schemes are unviable and need to be replaced with more appropriateapproaches.

42.     The socialsupport for COREMAPwas effectively developedat the national level
by the public awareness campaign,and in the participatingcommunitiesby the
empowermentarising from the recognition of the villages' role and rights in managing
their coastalresources, as well as the immediatebenefits of the villageinfrastructure
investments and the revolving funds. The sustainabilityof this support will, however,
greatlydepend on the continuationof the national campaign,the enactment of the
national and local laws recognizingthe communities'role and rights, and the streamof
benefits derived from the village grants. Shouldthese declinebecause of lack of political
resolve, inadequate budgets, or financialfailure, the communities' support for coral reef
conservationwill also be at risk.
                                                                        /


43.    Theresilienceof the institutionaland policy supportframeworkfor COREMAP
will depend largelyon the final approvaland enactment of the draft legislationprepared
by theproject at the national and districtlevels. Without the proposed legal reforms, the
bans on blasting, poison      and other illegal fishingpractices, and the allocationof
                             unities,will be difficult to enforce,and the communityreef
                  e subject to challengeand retaliation.

                                               13


 Quality at Entry

 45.     Theproject was solidly groundedin an extensivebody of biodiversityassessment
 and policy papers that grew out the 1992Rio Conferenceon Environment and
 Development.Both the Indonesia BiodiversityAction Plan (1993) and Indonesia's
 Agenda 21 (1996) emphasize community-basedmarine resourcesmanagement.The Bank
 was one of the key agenciesthat launched the 1995GlobalRepresentative System of
 Marine ProtectedAreas (`PAS)       initiative,which identified Indonesia amongthe world-
 wide priorities for MPA intervention.The Bank'sMarine Markets Transformation
 Initiativewas also launchedto find solutions for the livereef fish trade, one of the most
 important threats to Indonesia'sreefs. The 1996EconomicAnalysis ofIndonesian Coral
 Reefs'8supportedprojectpreparation. Thepreparationof the project was also assistedby
 the GOI's establishment of an inter-agencypreparationteam in 1995,which
 commissioned and funded extensive socioeconomicand ecologicalsurveysof priority
 program sites.

 46.     The designof the project as an adaptableprogram loan (APL)was appropriate,
 given the need for flexibilityand learningwhile pursuing a balancebetween conservation
 and development in a very inadequatepolicy and institutionalsetting. The project design
was unusuallycomplex, as it needed to organizeand empowerwidely dispersed and
rem-ote island communities in the absence of supportivelegal,policy and institutional
 frameworks. The appraisalof the technical and economic aspectsof the project was as
thorough as could be expected, given the limitationsof the scientificunderstanding of
coral reefs, their interactionwith local fisheries, and the nature of destructivethreats.

Supervision

47.      Flexible and EffectiveResponse to Problems:This was an extraordinarily
challengingproject to supervise. Aside from an intricatedesign involvingpolicy reform
and institutionalcapacity strengtheningat differentlevels, and community development
in two remote and dispersed project sites,the projecthad been launched shortlyafter the
1997financialcrisis in a period of economic and politicalupheaval,and was severely
affected by civil conflict,the creation of DKP in 1999,and the 2001 "big bang"
decentralizationof the GOI. That the project still managed to deliver on many of its
objectivesis largelya tributeto the qualityof supervisionand the government's
commitment to the project.

48.      Seriousethnic and religiousconflict in Maluku made it impossibleto implement
the pilot project in the Lease Islands, and led to its replacementby the Padaido site,
which had been under preparation for Phase 11.This site is now progressingwell,
followingsome initial delays.

49.     The creationof the DKP in 1999led to a crisis for the project, due to the transfer
of several of its best staff from the PMO to the new agency. While this was a logical
developmentthat would help the program in the long term, the uncertaintiessurrounding
the fate and ownershipof the program, and the shortageof staff contributedto serious

18.Cesar (1996)op.cit.

                                               14


 delays in project implementation. The lack of progress was vigorously pursued by the
 supervisionteam, noted in the PSR's with a series of unsatisfactoryproject ratings until
 the problem was resolved about two years later.

 50.     Focus on Development Impact: The decentralizationof government functions
 entailed a major transfer of budgetary, development, and enforcementresponsibilities
 from the national to the district levels. The supervisionteam took this challenge as an
 opportunityto shift project ownership and responsibility as much as possibleto the
 districtlevel, where DKP was also represented. Unfortunately,the financialmanagement
 aspectsremained centralized with LIPI, which led to extensive delays between
 community-leveldecisions, district-level reviews, and central-level approvals.This was
 the most important source of complaints noted by the assessmentmission. This
 discrepancybetween decentralized decision-makingand centralized approvals is
 expected to be resolved for the Phase I1project.

 51.     Even before decentralizationbecame the norm, the risks of excessivetop-down
managementhad become apparent in the implementationof the CBM component in Taka
Bone Rate, where serious conflictswere observed.Under pressure to meet contractual
deadlines,the NGO facilitatorshad attempted to rush decisions with community groups
without adequateconsultationwith traditionalvillage decision-makers. This led to
allegationsof favoritism and lack of support for CRMPs and village grant proposalsby
village and districtauthorities,and required the replacement of the facilitators.

52.      Compliancewith Safeauards: Theproject's compliancewith the Bank's
safeguardpolicies had been uneventful from the time of appraisal until the 7thsupervision
mission, in May 2001,when the mission learned of the resettlement of 12 familiesfiom
Latondu Kecil island in Taka Bone Rate, followingits designation as a no-go sanctuary
by the National ParksDepartment in 1998.Sincethe resettlement had not been canied
out through COREMAP,the supervision team concludedthat the Bank's OD 4.30 on
InvoluntaryResettlement had not been violated. Nevertheless, the team followed up with
the park manager and the CBM facilitator to ensurethat the GO1had taken the necessary
actionsto restore their living conditionsat least to pre-resettlement levels, and to
facilitatetheirbenefiting from COREMAP'Scommunitydevelopment aspects.

53.     Despite these arrangements, a spot check by the assessment mission found that
the resettled familieshad not yet benefited from the CBMprogram, and their living
conditionswere below averagefor the host island (LatonduBesar). While the mission
concursthat the Bank's involuntaryresettlement policy had not been violated, it also
recommends that, sincethe resettlement was a consequence of the type of activitythat
COREMAP supports(that is, the creation of coral reef sanctuaries),and it was important
to establisha model of good practice for the future,the project needed to ensurethat this
reservoirof dissatisfactionwas addressedby ensuringthat the resettled group is involved
in and benefits from ongoingCBM activitieson the same island.The supervisionteam is
followingup on this recommendation.

                                              15


 BORROWER      PERFORMANCE

 54.      Theborrower's performance has been satisfactory,but onlymarginallyso. The
 GOI, specificallyBAPPENAS, committedin the mid-1990s to a community-basedcoral
 reef management strategy,and steadfastly supportedthis concept while slowlycreating
 the policy and institutionalframeworkneeded to implement it. Thepreparationand
 implementation of the projectwas adequately supportedwith counterpartfunds dwing a
 period of major economic crisis and rapid political and institutional change.Nevertheless,
 LIPI's oversight of key areashas been weak. Also, progress in the approval and
 enactmentof the policy, strategy,and legal framework, for which DKP has been
 responsible, has been slow,with attendantrisks for the sustainabilityof the program, and
 donor coordinationwas inadequate.

 55.     GO1ownership of the project was strong, as demonstratedby its fundingof
preparatory surveys, but the implementationarrangementswere risky, sincethey centered
 on LIPI, a scientificinstitutewith limited fieldpresence and little communityorientation.
At appraisal, this was understood to be a temporary arrangement in the presence of an
institutional vacuum for coral reef management. Eventually, in 2000, the mandate was
given to the DKP. However, since DKP will onlybe responsiblefor the project from
Phase 11,the Phase I project is left in a slow and delicatetransitionfrom one agencyto
the other, with limited ownership and commitment on both sides. The transitionhas also
resulted in losses of institutionallearning and capacity.

56.
until 2001,it had only assigned a part-time directorto the PMO, with attendantweak
         LIPI's ownershipof the project has been less firm,as indicatedby the fact that,
leadership and oversight.A more important consequence is that the project failed to
deliverin key areaswhere LIPI shouldhave been expected to excel, such as the
coordination of baseline surveyswith project impact and controlzones, and the provision
of technical guidanceto participatingvillages in regard to seaweed culture and coral reef
sanctuaryselection.

57.      The full extent of DKP's ownership and commitment to the COREMAP strategy
remains to be demonstrated.While somehesitation may be understandablein light of
DKP's recent creation and LIPI's responsibilityfor Phase I, the mission has seen little
indicationof DKP's effort toward endorsingthe draft National Policy and Strategyfor
CoralReef Management, the incorporation of the recommended inputs into the new
FisheriesAct and the CoastalZone Management and Small Islands Act, and the
assignmentof full-timequalified and enthusiastic staffto COREMAP activities.This is
an areawhere timely action would be important to ensurethe sustainabilityof the results
of Phase I, and the successof Phase 11.

58.      In addition,while COREJMAPwas designed and appraised as an integrated
program with componentsfunded by the BanMGEF, ADB, and AusAID, the coordination
of the donors in the course of implementationhas been inadequate, even though they
were all managed by the same PMO. This is likelyto have been mainly due to the weak
leadership indicated above and the fact that the PMO was organized alongthematic lines,
with nobody responsible for coordination of all componentsat a specificproject site. As a
result, there has been a seriouslack of integrationbetween the CBM and MCS activities

                                                  16


 fundedby the Bank/GEF, and the baseline surveysof reef and socioeconomicconditions
 fundedby ADB.

 LESSONS

 59.      Themain lessons that emerge from the experience of the project point to the need
 to proceed with caution with the expansion of the program in Phase I1in order to allow
 workable and sustainablearrangementsto be established for the implementation of the
 strategy, the integration of project activitieswith impact data gathering and monitoring,
 and the provisionof technical guidance for community-baseddecisionmaking.

 Importance ofAdaptability and Timefor Pilot Projects

 60.      As the pilot for a three-phase APL, the subjectproject was designedwith ample
 allowances for flexibilityand learning. Even so, the project required three extensions
 from its original completion date, and severalkey requirements for the success of
 COREMAP, such as the internal organization and implementation arrangementswithin
 DKP, the integration of project activities with data gathering and impactmonitoring, and
 theprovision of technical guidanceto local communities,remain incomplete and
untested. In addition, the sustainabilityof the CBM-centeredstrategyhas not been
demonstrated. Thispoints to the need for adaptabilityand cautionin regard to the
 expansion of the COREMAPprogram in Phase 11,until the viabilityof the approachhas
been established. It also points to the advisabilityof extendingthe APL beyond the 15-
year horizon envisaged at appraisal.

Need to Integrate Project Activities with Impact Data Gatheringand Monitoring

61.      A major flaw in project implementationwas the lack of coordinationbetween the
CBM and MCS activitiesand the baseline surveysand monitoring provisionscarried out
under a complementaryproject fundedby the ADB. Without close integrationbetween
baseline surveys,sanctuarycreation, and surveillanceactivities,it will not be possibleto
determinethe impact and validate the rationale for the COREMAPstrategy, even in the
long term. This unsatisfactory stateof affairs appearsto be largelydue to the PMO's
having been managed by a part-timedirectorfor the first three years of the project, and it
being organizedalong thematic lines, with assistantdirectors and technicalteams
responsiblefor MCS, CRTICs, CBM, and public communications for the entire
COREMAPprogram, without geographicalresponsibilities.The ensuing lack of
integrationcouldhave been avoidedwith the assignment ofmanagerswith geographical
responsibilitiesand the dutyto ensurethat the different components are effectively
integratedat all 10cations.'~




19.Another approachwould be to have criticalparts of the programfundedby pooled funds, which would
require close coordinationbetween donors.

                                               17


 Need toAssign Full TimeStafffor Project Implementation

 62.     The PMO's extensivereliance on part-time staff significantlyreduced the ability
 of managers and staffto maintain controland direction over the technical aspects of the
 project, and encouraged a situationwhere most of the work was done by consultantsand
 contractorswith littleintegrationbetween consultantsand PMO technical staff. This
 contributedto significant delays in project implementation,inadequate integration
 between different project components and limited transfer of knowledge from consultants
 to national staff.Many of these problems couldhavebeen avoided with the appointment
 of full-time staff for the implementation of the project.

 Need to Provide Technical Guidance to Community-basedDecisions

 63.     While community empowermentwas a vital element of the COREMAP strategy,
 it can lead to poor decisions,as indicated by the findings about the qualityof biodiversity
 in one of the chosen sanctuaries,and investments in unviable electrificationschemes.The
 failureof the seaweed cultureprojects was particularly unfortunate, given LIPI's
 expertise in this area. This points to the need to ensurethat community-based decision-
making processes be informed by sound technical guidanceto ensurethat mistakes are
 avoided.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS

64.      Based on the project's experience,it is possibleto identify additional directions
that could enhance the benefits from the COREMAP strategy, and deserveto be
considered for Phase I1and futureprojects.

Potentialfor Local Fisheries Development

65.      The commercial and artisanalfisheries in the project areas appearto be far from
being fully and efficientlydeveloped, but the project has done little to examinehow the
local communities could extract additional benefits from the fisheryresources around
them. While the communities have been given full authorityover village grant and seed
funds, their decisionsoften have not been informedby adequateexpertiseon technical
and commercial aspects.In light of the ample fisheryresourcesin the project areas, the
provision of additional expertise on technical and market issues to aid their sustainable
developmentby the local communitieswould seemto be an area worth consideringto
enhancethe localbenefits of the program.

PotentialforRenewabJeEnergiesDeveJopment

66.     Three of the five TakaBone Rate villages where CBM has been fully
implemented chose to invest one of their three village grantsin a diesel-basedelectricity
supplysystem.Whle this choice reflects village priorities, it was clear to the mission that
the electrificationschemeshave not been designed to adequatetechnical standards,and

                                                      18


 are not being managed in a financially sustainableway.2oThe installations are precarious,
 unsafe, and certainto fail, and shouldnot have passed the technicalreview process of the
 NGOs and PMOS.In light of the limited capacity of the villagesto manage and maintain
 an electrificationscheme,it would appear that simpler, more decentralized approaches,
 includingsolarphotovoltaic home systems, should also be considered."

Potentialfor GreaterEmpowerment of Participating Villages

 67.       Based on the experience of the project, there seem to be additional opportunities
 to pursue the COREMAPobjective empoweringthe coastal communities as owners and
 managers of local reef resources. Thepotentialto transfer fwtherproject responsibilities
 to the communitylevel, and the need to supplement the village entities' sourcesof
revenue present two directionsthat deserveto be pursued.

68.        While the project has already engineered a major transfer of budgetary,
development, and enforcementresponsibilities from the nationalto the districtlevels,the
financial management aspects remains centralized, with extensivedelaysbetween
community-level decisions,district-levelreviews, and central-level approvals. Thiswas
the most important sourceof complaintsnoted by the mission. The need to address this
issue would seem to offerthe opportunityto transfer greater authorityand responsibility
for project implementationto the villages.

69.        The sustainabilityof village support for the CBM and MCS components of the
strategywill require greater attention to enhancing the communities'sourcesof revenue.
The development of a user charge system that would enable the villages to collect and
retain license fees from fishingboats, divers and tour operatorswould seem to be
appropriate.Somesuch user charges already exist,but they are far fromreflectingthe
economicvalue of the resource, and the revenues are sentto the central government.




20. E.g., tariffs do not cover operatingcosts, andthere is no provision for equipmentmaintenance, repair
andreplacement.
21.Some lessonsmay be learned fromthe experience with similar systemsin remote Pacificisland
countries. See: SoIarEnerrzv: Lessons fromthe PacificIsland Experience,by A. Liebenthal, S. Mathur and
H. Wade, World Bank TechnicalPaper 244 -Energy Series,Washmgton, 1994.

                                                     19                                                 Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 CORALREEFREHABILITATIONAND MANAGEMENTPROJECT
 (LOAN 43O5-IND)



                                                        Appraisal           Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                         estimate        current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                                         12.8               14.0                     109
Loan amount                                                 6.9                6.9                     100
Cofinancing                                                4.1                 4.1                     100
Cancellation                                                                   0.0




                                  FY99            moo            FYOI         FYOZ           FY03          FY04
Appraisalestimate(US$M)            1.oo           5.00            6.90         6.90           6.90          6.90
Actual (US$M)                      0.50            1.23           3.56         4.13          4.44           5.89
Actual as % of appraisal           50              25             52            60            64              85
Date of final disbursement:  Revisedclosinadate is 07/31/2004.




                                                                Original                          Actual
Initiatingmemorandum                                           0711111995                       07/21/1995
Negotiations                                                   0911811996                       01/19/1998
Board approval                                                 1211611996                       03/03/1998
Signing                                                        0211411997                       05/01/1998
Effectiveness                                                  0411511997                       06/30/1998
Closingdate                                                    10/31I2001                       10131I2003


Staff InDuts (staffweeks)*
                       FY95   FY96     FY97       FY98     FY99 W O O    FYOl      FY02    FY03    FY04       Total
Preappraisal          12.4    25.6    46.5      27.2                                                       111.7
Appraisal                                       23.5                                                       23.5
Negotiations                                    6.5                                                        6.5
Supervision                                    4.0         42.4   41.2  18.6     21.3      17.7   25.5"*   170.7


*Accordingto Bank's accountingsystem, consultantweeks were recordedonly until FiscalYear 1999. Consultantstaffweeks
*feeswere alreadyincludedin the inputvalues starting Fiscalyear 2000.
**includesestimatesfor ICR mission.

                                               20                                    Annex A


Mission Data
                    Date     No. of   Staff        Specializations   Performance
                (monthlyear) persons days in        represented         rating
                                      field
                                                                    Impl.
                                                                    Progress Dev.
                                                                              Obj.
Identification1 04/26/1995      6    15I     TTL-NAT.RES.ECON. (I);
Preparation                                  ENV. (1);
                                             TRAD.MNGT./USER
                                             RIGHTSSPC. (1)
                                             INST.SPC.

                1011211995  6       15      TTL-NAT.RES.ECON. (I);
                                             COASTALZONE
                                             MGT.SPC. (1); ENV.(I)
                                            TRAD.MGT./USER-
                                             RIGHTSSPC.(l)


               09/06/1996   5       15      TTL-NAT.RES. ECON. (I);
                                            VILG.GRANT SPC. (1) ;
                                             BIODIVERSITYSPC. (1);
                                            COASTALZONE .SPC.
                                            (I); MICRO-ENTERPRISE
                                            SPC.(I)

                                            TTL-NAT.RES.ECON (I);
               04/22/1997   4       14      VILG.GRANT.SPC
                                            (1);CNTR.PROG.
                                            CORD. (1);SR.COORD.
                                            ENV.(I)

                                            TTL-NAT. RES.ECON.(I);
               07/25/1997   9       33      ENV.ECON. (1);
                                            VILG.GRANT SPC.
                                            (1); COASTAL
                                            MGNTSPC(1);ENFOR.
                                            SPC.(l);MONITOR.
                                            SPC.(l); LAWYER (1);
                                            PROC. (1);DlSB. (1)

Appraisal       12/19/1997  9       16      TTL-NAT.RES.ECON. (I);
                                            ENV.MGNT (1);
                                            PROJ.ECON. (1);
                                            CONFLICT.
                                            RESOLUTIONSPC. (1);
                                            ENVSPC. (1);AUDIT
                                            &ACCTN. (1); PROC. (1);
                                            VILG.GRANT SPC. (1) ;
                                            DISB. (1)
Supervision    09/07/1998     7     12      SR. ENVIR.SPC. (1); SR.  S      S
                                            NAT. RES. ECO.mL (1);
                                            PROJ. MGN
                                            SPCIFACILIT.(1); PROJ.
                                            ECONOMIST(1);
                                            DISB/FINANC/REPORT.
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT(1);
                                            EXT. AFFAIRSMEDIA (1)

               03/05/1999    5      12      TTL-NAT. RES. ECONO.
                                            (I); CO-TTL-ENVIRON.    S      S
                                            SPC. (1);
                                            SURVEILLANCESPC.
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST(1); PUBLIC
                                            AWARENESS SPC. (1)

                                           21                                   Annex A


                 Date     No. of   Staff      Specializations    Performance
             (monthlyear) persons days in       represented        rating
                                   field
                                                                Impl.
                                                                ProgressDev.
                                                                         Obj.
             10/13/1999   5      12      CO-ML COASTAL MNG
                                         SPC. (I); CO-ML         S     S
                                         ENVIRON.SPC. (1);
                                         SURVEILLANCESPC.
                                         (1); AWARENESS SPC.
                                         (1); FINANCIALMNG
                                         SPC. (1)

             03/07/2000          10      CO-TTL(COASTALMNG)
                                         (I); CO-TTL (ENV. MNG)  U      U
                                         (1); MCS SPECIALIST(1);
                                         POLICY+STRATEGY
                                         SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                         (PART-TIME)(1);
                                         AWARENESS (PART-
                                         TIME) (1)

             08/11/2000          9       CO-TTL (COASTAL
                                         MGMT; CO-TTL (ENV.     S      S
                                         MGMT); MCS
                                         SPECIALIST

Midterm Rev. 11/07/2000          16      CO-TTL (COASTAL
                                         MGMT; CO-TTL(ENV.      S      S
                                         MGMT); FIN. MGMT;
                                         PROJECTMGMT.

            05/10/2001           15      CO-TTL (ENV. MGMT.);
                                         MCS SPECIALIST         S      S


            11/16/2001           34      TASK TEAM LEADER
                                         (ENV); CO-TASK TEAM    S      S
                                         LEADER(RES. ECON);
                                         FINANCIAL
                                         MANAGEMENT(1); MCS
                                         EXPERT(1)

            02/28/2002           18      TTL ( LEAD ENV.
                                         SPECIALIST);CO-TTL     S      S
                                         (ECONOMIST);SR.
                                         BIODIVERSITYSPEC.
                                         ;MCS SPEC.


            10/07/2002           12      TTULEAD ENV.
                                         SPECIALIST(1);         S      S
                                         ECONOMIST(1); MCS
                                         SPEC. (1)

            10/03/2003           15      TASK TEAM LEADER(1);
                                         COMMUNITY-BASED        S
                                         MGMT. (1);                    S
Completion                               DECENTRALIZATION(1);
                                         FISHERIES/CBM(1);
                                         INSTITUTIONS(1); MCS
                                         (11


                                                23                                              Annex B


 Annex B: EconomicAnalysis of COREMAP Programzz
 Coral reefs form the core of the livelihood for hundreds of thousands of Indonesian
 subsistence fishers, and a sourceof food securityin times of agriculturalhardship. They also
 provide a naturalbarrier against wave erosion,therebyprotectingcoastaldwellings,
 agricultural land, and tourism beaches. They are a potential source of foreign exchange from
 divers and other marine tourists. In addition, because of their uniquebiodiversity, they are of
 great interest to scientists,students,pharmaceuticalcompanies, and others. These and many

 InstitutepapeP estimated the potential sustainableannual economicnet benefits of healthy
 other functions give coral reefs an important and growingvalue. A recent World Resources
 reefs in SoutheastAsia. The results per squarekilometer of reef are given in Table B-1.

 Table B-1: Potential Sustainable Annual Economic Net Benefits per km2 of Healthy
 Coral Reef in Southeast Asia

 RESOURCE USE                                                              POTENTIAL ANNUAL NET

 (DIRECTAND INDIRECT)                         PRoDUCT1oN RANGE BENEFITS (US$) (RANGE)

Sustainablefisheries (localconsumDtion) 10-30 t                            $12.000 -36.000
Sustainablefisheries (livefish export)        0.5 - 1t                     $2,500 - 5,000
Coastal protection(erosion prevention)                                     $5,500 - 110,000
Tourism and recreation                        100- 1000 persons            $700 - 111,000
Aesthetidbiodiversity value (WTP)             600 -2000 persons            $2,400 - 8,000


Total (fisheries & coastal protectiononly)                                $20,000- 151,000
Total (includingtourism potential)                                        $23,100 -270,000
Source: Reefsat Risk inSoutheastAsia (Burkeet ai. 2002)


Yet, despite their high potential values, the qualityof coral reefs in Indonesiais declining
rapidly. Even remote reefs in unpopulated areas are not free from man-induced deterioration.
At the moment, only 29 percent of Indonesianreefs are in good condition (that is, with more
than 50percent live coral cover). In most areas, a variety of human-inducedthreats are
responsiblefor the degradationofreefs. The relative importanceand the type of threatsvary
tremendouslyby location.Powerful economic forces are drivingthe observeddestructive
patterns of coral reef use, often rendering short-term economicprofits, sometimesvery large,
to selected individuals.

Measures for coral reef protection are often presumed to conflictwith economic
development, and are said to require a sacrificeof economic growth. However, this
perception stemsmainly from a failure to recognizethe magnitude of costs to the present and

22. This analysishas been preparedby Herman Cesar as Annex 12of the PAD for the COREMAPPhase I1
project.
23. Burke, L., E. Selig and M. Spalding.2002. Reefs at risk in SoutheastAsia. World ResourcesInstitute.72
PP.

                                                  24                                                Annex B


 future economy resulting from reef degradation. Table B-2 adapted from Cesaret al. (1997)
 shows the benefits to individuals and losses to societyfromeach squarekilometer of coral
 reef destruction,providing an economicrationale for preventive or remedial efforts.For
 coastalprotection and tourism losses,both "high" and "low" scenario estimates are
 presented,depending on the types of coastalconstruction and tourism potential. "High" cost
 scenariosare indicativeof siteswith high tourism potential and coastal protection value.
 "Low" cost scenariosare indicative of siteswith low tourism and coastalprotectionvalue.

 Some of the most importantvalues of coralreefs, such as those to future generations and
 intrinsicvalues, cannotbe quantified.However, sincethe economicbenefits from reef
 destructionoften are used tojustify continuation of these destructivepractices, quantifying
 the costs associatedwith coral reef degradation is important to make a balanced assessment
 of the benefits and costs of various threats.

The analysisis mainlybased on observabledata, such as the value of the decline of fish catch
or expendituresby hotels on infrastructure to temporarilyprevent beach erosion. Totalcosts
 should thus be interpreted as rough estimatesof the lowerrange of true costs associated with
reef destruction.Thenumbers in Table B-1are generated on the basis of availabledata, using
hypotheticalexamples of sites subject to one individualthreat.

Table B-2: Total Net Benefits and Losses due to Threats of Coral Reefs in SE Asia (Net
Present Valuez4in US$ 000 per km2)


                                          Fishery Coastal        Sustainable Others (e.g.
Threats                                             protec-      tourism       biodiveristy)

Poison Fishing

Blast Fishing

Coral Mining

Sediment (logging)

Overfishing
Source: Adapted from
Threatened Resource,"AMBO 26, f(1997): 345-358.
Notes: -- n.q. = not quantified.

The datapresented above are for SoutheastAsia (TableB-1) and for Indonesia (TableB-2)
as a whole. For theprogram, a cost-benefit analysis(CBA)was carried out for the 6 target
districts.The advantage of an analysis at a district level isthe actual use of real site data,
rather than having to rely on countryaverages.



24. TheNet Present Value (NPV)provides a summary of the value of the resource, by aggregating annual
benefits over a 20 year time period,but gives greater weight to the near futureby using a "discountrate``of 10%
per year, whch means the currentbenefits of a future good is reduced by 10%for each year into the future.

                                                                 25                      Annex B


The CBA at the districtlevel capturesthe three main quantifiablebenefits: fisheries,other
local products derived from coralreefs and recreationhourism.Program benefits are carried
 forward 25 years, which is the evaluationtime horizon for the analysis. Below, the main
assumptionsbehind the three main quantifiablebenefits are presented and data are given for
each of these benefits for each of the districts.Data on the category"other local products"
were not collected locally, but instead come from benefit transfers from R~itenbeek.'~

Main benefits are expected to come from the fisheries sector:the closure of reef areas is
expectedto stabilizeyields compared to the "withoutprogram" scenariowhere yields are
expectedto graduallydecline over time (seeFigure B-1). The graph gives both a central case
as well as a more optimisticand a more pessimistic case, to mimic the uncertaintiesregarding
the benefits of no-take zones.


         140 1
         120

         100

          80
          60
          40

          20

    8
    i!     0 1   r                                                     +
                    I    #   I   ,   , I , I  I  ,   I I  , I ,   z  I I I , I  I I I

            \ 3           6 2           9 \\ \3         $J   4     ,9      %3 $6

                                                  years

                &without`                             -w-    w ith' centralestimate
                                                                   -
                -+-with' highestimate -c-with'lowestimate
                                  -

Figure B-1:Fisheries benefits assumedin economic analysis

The central estimate (FigureB-1) is in line with the recent literatureon the economics of no-
take zones, as summarizedin Roberts et al. (2001). Village grants and associated alternative
income generatingactivitiesare assumed to ensure that fishingpressure in the areas outside
the no-take zones is not increasing with the closureof specific areas.

We have conservativelyhypothesized that in the "central" estimate,the current yields will be
maintained over time, after an initial drop due to the introduction of no-take zones. In the
"without"program scenario,the fisheriesbenefits are supposedto decline graduallyover
time to 50 percent of current levels.Due to lack of reef fisheries yield data, these data were
calculatedbased on total reef area per district, local reef quality and assumed yields per level
of reef quality.The latter ranged from 1to 4. Levels were obtainedper kecamatan based on
expertjudgment by consultantteam members. It was assumed that a low level of 1


25. Ruitenbeek(2002) is basicallyRuitenbeek`sannexto the ADB COREMAPProject.There is no official
quotationfor it.

                                                26                                            Annex B


 correspondedwith a catch of 5 mt/km2/yr,while a levels 2, 3, and 4 correspondedwith
 catches of 15,25,and 35 mt/km2/yr,respectively. This was partly based on the literature26
 and on expertjudgment from the fisheries consultant in the team.


 TableB-3: Cost and BenefitEstimates for the 6 programDistricts

                               Pangkep     Selayar Buton        RajaAmpat Biak             Sikka

 DistrictProgramcostsa         7.5         7.9        13.3      8.5            9.0         7.6
 FisheriesValue (2003)         2.4         8.1        7.3       17.2           3.6         0.8
 Local Products(2003)          1.5         4.4        5.6       5.2            1.7         0.5
 TourismValue (2003)           0.1         0.4        I.6       0.2            0.1         0.2
 ReefArea (km2)                374         1098       1402      1300           424         128
 Reef quality index            1.8         2.0        1.6       3.2            2.3         1.7
 Number of fishers             35,000      18,100     60,700    10,700         unknown     4,300
 aexcludingdistrict Coral Reef Informationand TrainingCenters.

Tourism levels were estimated for each of the districts.Tourism was assumed to increase at 5
percent per year in the "central" estimatebased on the enhanced attraction of the area due to
the marineparks and marinetourism parks in the districts.Benefit transfer was used to
estimate"other local products" (Ruitenbeek,COREMAP-ADB,2002). In order to arrive at
actual value-added figuresper year from tourism and fisheries, it was assumed that the
averageprice of fish is 2750 Rp./kg and that value added in local fisheries is 80percent of
gross value (Cesar, 1996).For tourism, current expenditureson hotels and divinghorkeling
trips were collectedfor the six districts.Additionally, 50percent was added for "other"
expendituresof these tourists duringtheir stay. It was assumed that net value of tourism is 40
percent of gross value. For fisheries and tourism, a multiplier effect of 2 (i.e., 100percent)
was assumed, given the largeunderemployment situationin each of the sites. Theresults are
summarized in Table B-3.

The COREMAPprogram involvesnearly 5,000 squarekilometersof some of the most pristine
reefs in Indonesia. Hence, apart fkom quantifiablebenefits,there are a host of other benefits,
such as globalbiodiversity.Thesehave not been used in the estimates.However, an estimate
by Ruitenbeek puts this level at US$ 8.5 thousand per hectare, far more than the use values
given in Table B-3 above.

The detailed BCA results for the base case are given in TableB.4for the case of Buton. This
indicatesthe annualbenefit and cost streams associatedwith the program for the caseof
Buton. The resultingNPV at a 10percent discountrate is US$ 15.6million while the
economic internalrate of return (ERR) is estimatedat 18percent in the base case. Other
districtshave similarpatterns of annual costs and benefits.



Philippines".Galaxea, Vol. 7, pp. 161-178.
26. McAllister, D. E., (1988) "Environmental,Economic and SocialCosts of Coral Reef Destructionin the

                                                27                                   Annex B


 Table B-4: SummaryTable of Economic Analysis for Buton District (millionUS$)
  year:                           1    2       3    4   5   6    7      8    9    1 0 2 5 N P V
                                                                                             (10%)
 Quantifiable benefits 'with'
  Fisheries                       7.3 6.5      5.7  5.9 6.1 6.3  6.6    6.8  7.0  7.3  7.3   61.2
  Local Products                  5.6 5.0 4.4       4.6 4.7 4.9  5.1    5.3  5.4  5.6  5.6   47.3
  Tourism                         1.6 1.6      1.7  1.8 1.9 2.0  2.1    2.2  2.3  2.4  5.0   21.4
  Net benefitsAIG*                0.0 0.2      0.2  0.2 0.2 0.2  0.2    0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.8
 Total quantifiable benefits      14 13        12   12  13  13    14    14   15   15   18    132


 Quantifiable benefits 'without'
  Fisheries                       7.3 7.0      6.8  6.6 6.4 6.2  5.9    5.7  5.5  5.3  3.6   51.9
  Local Products                 5.6 5.4       5.3  5.1 4.9 4.8  4.6    4.4  4.3  4.1  2.8   40.1
 Tourism                          1.6 1.6      1.6  1.6 1.6 1.6  1.6    1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6   14.2
 Totalquantifiablebenefits        14 14        14   13  13  13   12     12   11   11   8     106

 Incrementalbenefits (25 yrs.)   0 - 1         -2   -1  0   1    2      3    4    5    1 0 2 6

 InterventionCosts (COREMAPPhase 11)
Buton COREMAP     Phase11Costs 3.4    2.0     2.0   2.0 2.0 2.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   9.9
Net Benefits                    -3.2 -2.8 -3.7 -2.8 -1.9 -1.1 1.8       2.7  3.6  4.5  10.1 15.6
ElRR                            18%
*AIG are Alternative IncomeGenerating Activities.

The results from the cost-benefit analysisfor the other districtsis given in Table B-5. As is
clear from the table, quantifiableeconomicinternalrates of return range from 6 percent in
Sikkato 21 percent in Raja Ampat. The differencescan largelybe explained from the relative
size and health of the reefs in the different districts.As the benefits vary much more than the
costs of addressing the problems,program management of the relatively smaller, less intact
reefs has a much lowerrate of return than larger,more pristine areas.

Table B-5:Economic Rates of Return for the 6 ProgramDistricts ('central' estimate)
                  Pangkep       Selayar         Buton   RajaAmpat       Biak         Sikka
ElRR 'central'
      (%)                        19              18        21            12           6


The estimatesare rather sensitiveto the assumptions, especiallythose related to trends in fish
yields over time. If the no-take zones are less effective,for example,because of illegal
fishingin these areas, the rates of return drop significantly.This also highlightsthe
importanceof credibleenforcement of the no-take zone regulations. See also the sensitivity
analysisdiscussed below.

ProgramBeneficiaries:Over 100,000fishersin the area are involvedin reef-related fishing.
These fisherswill directlybenefit from the activitiesunder the program. There incomes will

                                          28                                           Annex B


be stabilized compared to the "without program" case where these would decreasewith 50
percent or more over the coming25 years.

Financial AnalysisResults:Under program preparation, no separatefinancialanalysiswas
carried out. However,under the ADB part of COREMAP       Phase 11,a detailed financialanalysis
was carried out and a financial internalrate of rate (FIRR) of 16.7percent was calculated for
the alternativeincome generatingactivities among others.

SensitivityAnalysis: The estimatesare necessarily rather sensitiveto the assumptions,
especiallythose related to trends in fish yields over time. If the no-take zones are less
effective (for example, because of illegal fishingin these areas), the rates of return drop
significantly. This also highlightsthe importance of credible enforcement of the no-take zone
regulations. This is shown in TableB.6.

Table B.6: Economic Rates of Return for the 6 Program Districts ('central' estimate
and sensitivity)
                       Pangkep     Selayar       Buton    RajaAmpat         Biak        Sikka
ElRR 'central' (%)        11          19          18            21           12           6
ElRR high (%)             22          40          37            49           23           14
ElRR low (%)          Undefined        1          3        Undefined         1        Undefined

