Report No. PIC2652
Project Name                         Indonesia-Coral Reef Rehabilitation (      r) 
and Management Project
Region                               East Asia and Pacific
Sector                               Agriculture
Project ID                           IDPA36048
Borrower                             Republic of Indonesia
Executing Agencies (proposed)        Local Governments, through
Directorate General of Regional
Development, Ministry of Home Affairs
(DG Bangda) and Indonesian Institute
of Sciences (LIPI)
Estimated Project Cost               US$80 million
Financing Plan (tentative)           IBRD (see 1/)        US$40 million
GOI                  US$20 million
GEF                  US$12 million
Co-financing         US$ 8 million
Country Eligibility                  IBRD eligible;   Biodiversity
Convention signed
August 23, 1994
GEF Focal Area                       Biodiversity
Date PID Prepared                    July 26, 1995
Preparation Financing                PHRD grant; UNDP/PRIF grant (pilot
phase); GOI funds; GEF PDF (expected)
Appraisal Date                       July, 1996
Negotiations Date                    October, 1996
Projected Board Date                 September 16, 1997
Background
1.   Indonesia is the world's largest archipelago, comprising more than
17,000 islands and 81,000 km of coastline. The country's coastal zone
has numerous estuaries, mangroves, seagrass, coral reefs, and small
island ecosystems. More than 70 genera of hard coral have been recorded
in Eastern Indonesia, as compared to 20 in the Caribbean and 50 in the
Indian Ocean. As much as two thirds of Indonesia's coastline is
bordered by coral reefs, which play vital roles in coastal fisheries,
marine tourism, protection of coastal areas against wave erosion, and as
habitats for numerous marine organisms.
2.   Coral reefs ecosystems are vulnerable to human-induced stress.
Available data indicate that as much as 71 percent of the reefs in
Indonesia are in poor to fair condition, primarily due to sedimentation,
land-based pollution, coral mining, physical damage, and over-extraction



of marine products. In recent years, moreover, there has been a marked
increase in the use of illegal and destructive practices such as
explosives and poison fishing, the latter to serve the highly valuable
live fish restaurant trade in Asia. Without immediate interventions, it
is likely that large areas of reef will suffer irreversible damage in
the near future. These concerns have prompted the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) to formulate the proposed Coral Reef Rehabilitation and
Management Project, with the objective of improving the management of
priority sites and rehabilitating degraded coral reefs through
community-based interventions, research, capacity building and awareness
raising.
Rationale for World Bank/GEF Financing
3.   The proposed project is consistent with Indonesia+s Biodiversity
Action Plan, Agenda 21, the Convention on Biological Diversity and the
Nassau Conference of Parties (1994), which identified as priority
programs those which (a) promote the conservation and sustainable use of
marine and coastal biodiversity; (b) strengthen the involvement of local
people, and integrate poverty concerns; (c) build local capacity through
human resources development and institutional strengthening; and (d)
strengthen the conservation, management, and sustainable use of
ecosystems.   By focusing on Eastern Indonesia, the project that is
proposed for World Bank/GEF financing would help conserve an area which
is believed to contain the richest coral reef, fish, and marine
invertebrate biodiversity in the world.
4.   The project's focus on capacity building, community-based
management, and public awareness is fully concordant with the
recommendations of the International Coral Reef Initiative and the
recently launched Global Representative System of Marine Protected Areas
supported by the World Bank, the World Conservation Union and the Great
Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The creation of income-generation
alternatives for coastal communities, and the involvement of villagers
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in protected area management
also follow the recommendations of the recent World Bank environmental
report, Indonesia: Environment and Development, Challenges for the
Future. The proposed project is, moreover, consistent with the major
features of Indonesia's development strategy, which include (a)
environmental and resource management; (b) targeted poverty reduction;
and (c) human resources development.
Sector Issues and Government Strategy
5.   Coastal management in Indonesia suffers from institutional
ambiguities and overlaps. At both the national and regional levels,
human resources capacity for coastal zone management remains weak, and
sector-based strategies are imperiled by limited information on the
status of the resources and lack of integration into regional spatial
planning.    While a plan is underway to establish 30 million hectares
(ha) of marine protected areas (MPAs) by the year 2000, to date only 2.8
million ha have been established in 29 locations, and implementation of
management plans is constrained by lack of funds and staffing. In the
policy/legislation arena, marine management has been hampered by weak
enforcement of existing regulations, and lack of delineation of user
-2 -



rights over nearshore areas. In addition to local communities, coral
reef areas are the focus of unsustainable activities by tourism
developers and external fishers, often with conflicting interests.
These conflicts cannot be solved by strategies which focus exclusively
on ecosystem conservation, and a combination of local incentives,
effective enforcement, demarcation of user rights, and involvement of
communities in collaborative management will be necessary for coral reef
management strategies to succeed.
6.   Despite the above constraints, there are important policy changes
underway: since 1990, the development of management plans for MPAs has
become the joint responsibility of regional governments and the
deconcentrated offices of the Ministry of Forestry. Moreover, the
Spatial Use Management Act of 1992 provides for local government+s
integration of adjacent marine areas into regional spatial plans, and
allows for the designation of commercial uses within MPAs. Work is also
underway to declare jurisdictional boundaries for provincial control
over nearshore areas.    Integrated and sustainable coastal resource use
has been declared a primary goal of national development strategy
starting with Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita VI).
7.   A number of recent initiatives have contributed to raise high-level
awareness for coral reef management in Indonesia. The Research and
Development Center for Oceanology of the Indonesian Institute of
Sciences (LIPI-P30) has surveyed the status of coral reefs since 1984,
and has called the attention of policy makers to their continuing
degradation. In 1992, the State Ministry of Environment (LH) issued a
National Strategy and Action Plan for Coral Reef Ecosystem and
Management. The Ministry has also launched the Sustainable Marine
Program (Program Laut Lestari) in 27 provinces, with the objective of
stimulating implementation of integrated and sustainable marine resource
use. More recently, LH started the +Sea Watch+ (Siskamla) program in
several pilot locations, with the objective of encouraging community-
watch groups to collaborate with local authorities in the enforcement of
marine laws.    There are also plans to create a new national
coordination board for marine management. Local task forces for the
improved management of coastal resources have been created at the
provincial level in South Sulawesi, North Sulawesi (Bunaken) and Irian
Jaya, in partnership with local NGOs. These programs and initiatives
have received high-level government support, and have contributed to
GOI+s formulation of the proposed Coral Reef Rehabilitation and
Management Project (COREMAP).
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
8.   The proposed project would be the first operation supported by the
Bank to focus exclusively on coral reef ecosystems.     However, the Bank
has provided support to more than 50 projects and programs worldwide
with significant marine or coastal components during the FY89-94 period.
GEF is also assisting approximately 12 projects which include a marine
biodiversity focus.
9.     Lessons of experience from similar interventions around the world
and particularly in Southeast Asia indicate that: (a) the involvement
and support of all relevant stakeholders -- in particular of coastal
-3 -



communities and powerful decision makers -- is necessary to guarantee
the successful implementation of management strategies. The most
successful examples of nearshore area management in the Asia-Pacific
region involved collaborative arrangements between local authorities and
coastal communities, where the latter were fully involved in the design,
implementation and enforcement of management plans; (b) in order to be
sustainable, management strategies must provide direct and rapid
financial benefits to resource users; (c) behavior-influencing programs
such as public awareness, reward programs, and allocation of
tenure/stewardship rights can play a key role in increasing incentives
for conservation; (d) ways to control access to resources -- e.g.
through zoning and effective management and enforcement -- are essential
to guarantee long-term sustainability of coastal resource management
strategies; (e) close attention needs to be paid to the development of
site-specific solutions that build upon socio-cultural factors, and
dynamic changes affecting resource use; and (d) research and monitoring
should provide direct support to management needs.
Project Objectives and Description
10. Project Objectives. The primary objective of the proposed Coral
Reef Rehabilitation and Management Project is to improve the management
of coral reef ecosystems and rehabilitate degraded coral reefs in
Indonesia, for the protection of marine biodiversity and the sustainable
use of marine resources.    The associated objectives are (a) to
establish effective management mechanisms and alternative income-
generation opportunities for coastal communities in priority coral reef
areas; (b) to establish a Coral Reef Information network capable of
providing public information and guidelines on coral reef status and
management; (c) to create commitment and improve local capabilities for
effective intersectoral coordination in marine planning, management,
monitoring and enforcement; (d) to develop a prioritized approach to
strengthening human resources capacity through education and training;
and (e) to raise public awareness and participation for marine
conservation in Indonesia.
11. Project Description. The preliminary project components have been
identified as follows:
(a)  Management of Priority Coral Reef Sites.    This component would,
through a process of intersectoral and participatory planning with
relevant government agencies, the private sector, NGOs, and local
communities, identify viable solutions for improving the management of
priority coral reef sites, facilitate local communities to successfully
implement the agreed solutions, and address their socio-economic needs.
Among the possible interventions would be the creation of alternative
income opportunities at the community level to alleviate pressure on the
reefs, through the provision of funding, training and technical
assistance for village-based productive activities; support to local
task forces in planning, implementation, enforcement and monitoring of
management plans; allocation of stewardship/user rights to target
communities; and provision of necessary equipment, support services, and
small-scale infrastructure in support of management strategies.
Sustainable funding mechanisms are expected to be explored further
during the preparation phase, including the possible establishment of
- 4 -



community revolving funds, and taxation-based mechanisms to benefit
local management efforts.
(b) Establishment of a Coral Reef Information Network.     This
component would develop and/or strengthen the management information
network and manpower capabilities of a number of Coral Reef Information
Centers. These centers would be established as units of pre-existing
marine research stations operated by LIPI-P30. The stations already have
general marine research facilities that would be upgraded to meet the
needs of the project. The numbers and sites of the network nodes would
be determined following the identification of priority areas
geographically representative of coral reef ecosystems in Indonesia.
The centers would be linked to regional universities and undertake
inventory, research, and monitoring of coral reef status, as well as
provide public education, training, and guidelines on coral reef
management and conservation principles.
(c) Strengthening the Human Resources Capacity, Institutions, Planning
and Policies Affecting Coral Reef Ecosystems.    This component would
provide support to on-site management efforts by improving the human
resources capacity of project stakeholders through the provision of
strategic education and training programs, on-the-job skill development,
seminars and workshops.    The component would also seek to improve and
clarify relevant policies and regulations influencing coral reef
ecosystems, namely through the development of operational guidelines and
the development of effective enforcement and compliance mechanisms.
(d) Public Awareness and Participation.    This component would aim to
generate public support for conserving Indonesia+s marine biodiversity
by directing communication and awareness efforts at strategic audiences
and decision makers.    The project would support the design of effective
communication and public awareness programs such as public information
campaigns, conservation prizes, and improved communication materials for
extension services, schools, and NGOs.
12.  Scope.   The project that is proposed for World Bank and GEF
financing would be part of a proposed national program that is expected
to involve multiple donors and parallel projects. The World Bank and
GEF-funded project is expected to involve both national and local level
interventions.   National level interventions would include planning,
policy reform, public awareness, and the creation of an information
network. Field activities would be implemented in a number of sub-
projects in priority provinces in Eastern Indonesia. The final
provinces/ sites have not been determined but they are expected to be
selected from the South Sulawesi-Nusa Tenggara, and the Maluku-Irian
Jaya regions, based on a set of criteria acceptable to GOI and the Bank,
and consistent with GEF biodiversity priorities.
Institutional Framework
13. The tentative institutional arrangements for the project are as
follows: at the national level, a project coordination board composed
of the major participating agencies is expected to be chaired by an
appropriate coordination agency, such as the National Planning and
Development Board (BAPPENAS) or the State Ministry of Environment. The
- 5 -



board would be assisted by a technical secretariat. LIPI would be the
executing agency for the research, monitoring and information network,
while DG Bangda is expected to coordinate activities related to site
management, community participation, and public awareness.
Implementation, however, would be divested to the regional governments
and NGOs in the target project sites. The prime target group for
implementation of project activities are expected to be grass roots
organizations at the community level.
Participation and Project Preparation
14. Borrower Commitment. Commitment for the project is high among the
participating agencies. BAPPENAS first requested Bank assistance in
April of 1994, and GEF assistance in June of 1995.     GOI funds have been
allocated for project preparation activities. An inter-agency
preparation team was formed in February of 1995, composed of
representatives of Bappenas, LIPI, DG Bangda, and DG PHPA. The team
completed a project concept document in March 1995, which was revised in
May 1995. The core team has since been expanded to include
representatives from LH and DG Fisheries, and there has been an
agreement to invite the participation of DG Tourism and NGOs. The team
is presently carrying out preliminary field assessments in target sites
and strengthening the project concept in consultation with regional
governments prior to the mobilization of the technical assistance for
project preparation. The project team has carried out preliminary
stakeholder identification and consultation, and considerable project
preparation funds have been earmarked for participatory planning
workshops and social assessments during project preparation.
15.  Project Costs and Economic Analysis.    The project costs, including
incremental GEF financing, need to be estimated further during final
site selection.   The proposed methodology for incremental cost
estimation is as follows: the baseline cost scenario would be based on
current GOI expenditures for representative marine protected areas,
while baseline benefits would be derived from available data on
incremental productivity and/or aesthetic benefits in these areas; the
alternative scenario+s costs and benefits would be derived from examples
of effective on-site management and stakeholder involvement in the
Southeast Asia region. GEF support for the alternative scenario is
expected to result in additional domestic benefits, insofar as
participatory approaches to nearshore resource management have been
shown to be more effective than a +paper park+ approach. The project+s
economic analysis is expected to involve a comparison of the net present
value (NPV) of alternative management options, as compared with present
conditions in representative sites. Village-based investments are
expected to be evaluated based on indicative rates of return.
Project Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
16.   Project Benefits.    The proposed project offers a chance to arrest
the degradation of coral reef habitats in selected sites in Indonesia,
and improve public awareness of their unique productive and aesthetic
value. The management of priority sites would benefit local communities
and regional economies by helping increase the sustainable yield of
coral-related fisheries, and preserve the recreational potential of
- 6 -



marine tourism sites.    Global benefits would be derived from helping
conserve a region with probably the richest marine biodiversity in the
world. Through the creation of village-based productive investment
activities, the project would help improve the income-generating
opportunities of poor coastal villages. The project+s supporting
activities would, moreover, strengthen capacity for coral reef research
and monitoring, improve the institutional coordination and policies
affecting coastal management in the project sites, and help improve
public awareness and support for marine conservation in Indonesia.
17.  Sustainability and Risks.    The major risks associated with the
project are the powerful incentives associated with unsustainable coral
reef use, both at the community and at the regional levels. Other
project risks include (a) the weak institutional capacity and inter-
agency coordination mechanisms; (b) possible unsustainability of
project activities due to the low capacity of local governments to
generate own revenues; and (c) the weak enforcement climate, which may
undermine the implementation of zoning plans, allocation of user rights
and other regulatory measures.    The project would attempt to control
these risks by ensuring high-level commitment at the regional level
prior to implementation, and inviting local interests to sponsor and/or
become involved in project task forces; where socio-culturally
appropriate, encourage the recognition and enforcement of
stewardship/user rights by local communities; encourage the
incorporation of coral reef strategies into regional development plans;
seek to improve the accountability of enforcement task forces; and seek
to create sustainable funding mechanisms in support of local management
efforts.   Rural development projects currently under preparation for
Nusa Tenggara and Maluku are expected to accelerate the growth of local
economies and thus complement the village-based income generating
activities of COREMAP.
Environmental and Social Aspects
18. The project is expected to have positive environmental impacts,
through the creation of alternative income opportunities to alleviate
pressure on the reefs and support for the implementation of management
strategies. Adverse environmental implications are expected to be
limited, and capable of being satisfactorily addressed through the
incorporation of environmental design guidelines into the consultative
planning process and social assessments. Specific environmental risks
and benefits, however, cannot be clearly identified until project sites
and interventions are determined.
19. Many coastal communities in the East belong to distinct ethnic
groups, and the project+s social assessment should ensure that any
special needs are taken into consideration in project design. However,
involuntary displacement and restrictions on resource extraction have
been known to be imposed on coastal communities in the past,
particularly in marine recreational areas. An assessment of whether
these factors apply to prospective project sites is expected to be
carried out through the planned social consultations and local
workshops. Potential dispute resolutions are expected to be facilitated
through mediation and consultation.
-7-



Poverty, Environmental and Project Objective Codes
20. The project's resource management component has a poverty focus.
The environmental category is B. While project activities are not
directed specifically at women, it is expected that women's groups would
be significant beneficiaries of community revolving funds for village-
based investments. The project's objective categories are as follows:
Environment/Natural Resources:           55
Poverty                                  30
Human Resources Development              15
1/   IBRD       - International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
GOI       - Government of Indonesia
GEF       - Global Environment Facility
PHRD      - Japanese Grant Fund
UNDP/PRIF - United Nations Development Programme
Pre-Investment Facility for GEF Pilot Phase
PDF       - GEF Project development fund
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 8 -



