Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4305 IND
Loan Agreement
(Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 1, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4305 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received letters from the Borrower dated November 11, 
1997, and January 21, 1998, describing a program designed to protect, rehabilitate and 
achieve sustainable use of coral reefs and associated ecosystems (COREMAP, as 
hereinafter defined) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
COREMAP; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s execution 
of COREMAP through a series of loans over a period of approximately fifteen years to 
be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of COREMAP; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of COREMAP, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and 
(D)
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1994, 
establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and, by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant 
Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
Page  2
3,100,000) (the GEF Grant); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the first phase of COREMAP upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and any successor thereto; 
(b)
“COREMAP” means the Borrower’s national coral reef rehabilitation and 
management program as set out in the letter from the Borrower referred to in the 
Preamble to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(d)
"Grant" means a grant to be made available by the Borrower out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Participating Village for the financing of one or more 
Sub-projects as set out in the Grant Guidelines; 
(e)
“Grant Guidelines” means the guidelines dated March 7, 1998, as such 
Grant Guidelines may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(f)
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that 
have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
Page  3
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof;
(g)
“Kabupaten” means the following districts of the Borrower: Kabupaten 
Maluku Tengah in the Province of Maluku and Kabupaten Selayar in the Province of 
Sulawesi Selatan; 
(h)
“Kepala Desa” means the Head of a village; 
(i)
“LIPI” means Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia, the Indonesian Institute 
of Sciences; 
(j)
“LKMD” means a village development council within a village, headed by 
the Kepala Desa; 
(k)
“Participating Village” means a village selected in agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank for participation in Part D. 1 and D. 2 of the Project; 
(l)
"Pimpro" means a Project manager at the central level; 
(m)
“PMO” means the Project Management Office maintained in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(n)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 
measure the achievement of the Project objectives as set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; 
(o)
“Provincial COREMAP Steering Committee” means the committee established 
in the provinces of Irian Jaya, Maluku and Sulawesi Selatan for the coordination of 
Project activities;
(p)
"Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(q)
“Second phase of COREMAP” means such phase as described in the Borrower’s 
letter referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(s)
“Sub-project” means a specific investment activity to be carried out 
under Part D. 2 of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to six million 
nine hundred thousand dollars ($6,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project (other than Part D. 2 
of the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
paid) by the Borrower on account of Grants made under Part D. 2 of the Project and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
Page  4
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through BAPPENAS as the coordinating agency and LIPI as the executing 
agency, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, financial, marine and social practices and with due 
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  5
later than six 
months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the GEF Grant 
Agreement.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement; and
(b)
an event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
COREMAP or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  7
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Surveillance
equipment:
(a) Part C.1 (b) and 
1,240,000
100% of foreign
    (c) (i) and (iii) 
expenditures,
    of the Project
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost), and
65% for other items
procured locally
(b) Part C.1 (c) (ii)
  310,000
40% of foreign
           of the Project
expenditures,
40% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
25% for other items 
procured locally
 (2)
Awareness
2,370,000
70%
activities 
under Part B.1,
B.2 and B.3 of
the Project
(3)
Community
  260,000
100%
support
services under
Part D.1 (i) of 
the Project
(4)
Studies under
  390,000
50%
Parts A, C and D
of the Project,
except Part A.4 (b)
of the Project
(5)
Operation and
  160,000
60%
maintenance
for surveillance
under Parts C.1 (b) 
       and C.2 (b) (i) and
(iii) of the Project
(6)
Conferences,
  180,000
55%
workshops and
seminars
under Parts A, C
and D of the Project
(7)
Consultants'
1,280,000
50%
services
under Parts A, C
and D of the Project
(8)
Training
  120,000
60%
under Part C. 3 
(a), (b) (i) and
(b) (ii) of
the Project
Page  8
(9)
Grants
  220,000
100% of the Grant amount
(10)
Unallocated
  370,000
 ________
TOTAL
6,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Awareness activities” means services, publications, 
distribution of materials, workshops, and per diem and travel for relevant staff under 
Part B of the Project;
(d)
the term “Community support services” means services by non-governmental 
organizations and universities; and
(e)
the term “Operation and maintenance for surveillance” means operation and 
maintenance of equipment procured under Part C. 1 (b) and (c) of the Project, 
allowances for village reef watchers, and replacement of minor surveillance equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;  and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories  (1), (5) 
and (8) until the Operational Manual has been issued pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the site evaluations and designs have 
been approved pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) training; (iii) operation and maintenance for 
surveillance; (iv) conferences, workshops and seminars; (v) Grants; (vi) awareness 
activities under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (vii) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each, and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, including contracts for studies; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The Project is the first phase of the Borrower’s COREMAP. The objective of the 
Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing a viable framework for a national 
coral reef management system that promotes the protection, rehabilitation, 
conservation and sustainable use of  coral reefs and associated ecosystems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Program Strategy and Management 
1.
COREMAP Policy and Strategic Planning
(a)
Strengthening the national policy for coral reef protection and 
sustainable use.
(b)
Strengthening the national COREMAP strategy and preparation of an action 
Page  9
plan, including preparation of guidelines for COREMAP support and carrying out of 
strategy discussion workshops. 
2.
Legal Framework for Coral Reef Management
(a)
Strengthening the Borrower’s national legal framework relating to coral 
reef ecosystems, including (i) review of existing legislation; (ii) preparation of 
draft laws, regulations, decrees and guidelines, as needed, to control destructive 
practices on coral reefs, and (iii) carrying out of legal studies on coral reef 
management, including preparation of guidelines for the collection of evidence of 
major destructive activities on reefs, and a study on conflict resolution among 
stakeholders in coral reef areas.
(b)
Strengthening the Borrower’s legal framework for coral reef management 
through the provision of assistance in the evaluation and preparation: (i) in the 
Province of Maluku, of provincial and Kabupaten legislation on coral reefs, taking 
into account local cultural assets, including customary user rights; (ii) of Kabupaten 
legislation for the endorsement of community-based management plans of coral reef 
resources in the Province of Maluku; (iii) of Kabupaten legislation for the 
endorsement of community-based \0cmanagement plans of coral reef resources in the 
Province of Sulawesi Selatan; and (iv) of a legal framework for conservation 
management of the Taka Bone Rate National Park in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, 
including the carrying out of workshops and seminars. 
3.
Project Management
(a)
Carrying out of national workshops for Project launch, planning, review 
and evaluation, and comparative studies for Project staff.
(b)
Carrying out of training for Project staff, Participating Villages and 
other key stakeholders in coral reef and Project management. 
4.
Preparation of Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Investments for the 
Second Phase of 
COREMAP
(a)
Carrying out of detailed designs of coral reef rehabilitation and 
management for investments proposed for the second phase of COREMAP in the Provinces 
of Irian Jaya, Maluku, Sulawesi Selatan and Sulawesi Tenggara, including preparation 
of detailed design and a draft implementation plan. 
(b)
Carrying out of an evaluation study of the Project.
Part B:
Public Awareness
Increasing public awareness of coral reef rehabilitation and sustainable 
management of coral reef ecosystems, fostering public stewardship of coral reefs, and 
changing destructive behavior by the general public,  through:  
1.
the design, implementation and evaluation of a national awareness campaign, 
including development of multi-media awareness instruments, carrying out of awareness 
development training for relevant government institutions, non-governmental 
organizations and media reporters, and carrying out of seminars, consultations and 
surveys; 
2.
the design, implementation and evaluation of a regional awareness campaign in 
the Provinces of Maluku, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Sulawesi Selatan and Riau, including 
development and dissemination of appropriate public relations materials;
3.
the preparation and dissemination of information on COREMAP, including 
publication and distribution of guidelines, newsletters and other awareness materials 
to relevant COREMAP stakeholders in the Provinces of Irian Jaya, Maluku, Nusa Tenggara 
Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Sulawesi Selatan, Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, 
Sumatera Barat, Sumatera Utara, and Riau; and carrying out of national workshops, 
conferences and consultations; and
4.
the design and implementation of an award and public recognition system to 
reward outstanding performance by villages, groups of individuals, and individuals in 
Page  10
coral reef management and conservation.
Part C:
Coral Reef Surveillance and Enforcement Activities
1.
Strengthening surveillance and enforcement activities for coral reef protection 
at the national level, through:
(a)
the preparation of guidelines and operational standards for field 
surveillance and enforcement;
(b)
the establishment and operation of a national coral reef surveillance and 
enforcement unit responsible for the coordination of field surveillance and 
enforcement units, including provision of relevant equipment; 
(c)
provision of surveillance equipment to field coral reef surveillance and 
enforcement units operating in: (i) the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku; (ii) 
Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan; and (iii) the Padaido Islands in 
the Province of Irian Jaya; and
(d)
carrying out of (i) annual workshops for judges, prosecutors, policy 
makers, and senior officials dealing with marine enforcement, on curbing destructive 
activities on coral reefs; (ii) national and international workshops on coral reef 
protection from destructive activities; and (iii) a study for the curbing of 
destructive activities on coral reefs, including poison testing, and preparation of an 
action plan.
2.
Strengthening surveillance and enforcement activities for coral reef protection 
at COREMAP sites, through:
(a)
the carrying out of a site assessment for the establishment of a 
surveillance system for the Padaido Islands in the Province of Irian Jaya; and 
(b)
the establishment and operation of: (i) a coral reef surveillance system 
for the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku, including a reef watcher system; (ii) 
a coral reef surveillance and enforcement unit and system for the Taka Bone Rate 
National Park in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, including aerial surveillance and 
reef watchers’ systems; and (iii) a coral reef surveillance unit and system in the 
Padaido Islands in the Province of Irian Jaya, targeting destructive activities on 
coral reefs.
3.
Strengthening the capacity for implementation of surveillance and enforcement 
activities for coral reef protection through:
(a)
the preparation of training modules for surveillance of coral reef areas 
and the enforcement of the prohibition of destructive practices on coral reefs; and 
(b)
the carrying out of training for: (i) government officials, 
non-governmental organizations and fishers in ocean and coastal management and 
surveillance and enforcement; (ii) community groups and non-governmental organizations 
in reef watching; and (iii) law enforcement officers in reef watching and law 
enforcement in coral reef areas.
Part D:
Community-Based Management
1.
Improvement of the condition of coral reef ecosystems in (i) the Lease Islands 
in the Province of Maluku and (ii) in Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi 
Selatan, through: 
(a)
(i) the carrying out in the Participating Villages of consultation and 
awareness activities on issues affecting coral reef management; (ii) the carrying out 
in Participating Villages of community training and extension activities in 
sustainable coral reef management and technical skills; (iii) the strengthening, and 
establishment of, community groups, in Participating Villages, for improved coral reef 
management; and (iv) the carrying out in Participating Villages of workshops and 
comparative studies; 
(b)
the preparation of coral reef management plans by the Participating 
Page  11
Villages; and
(c)
the provision of technical assistance and training to Participating 
Villages in: (i) sustainable management of coral reefs; (ii) participatory reef 
monitoring; (iii) the development of proposals for coral reef management and 
alternative income generation activities; (iv) the development of micro-enterprises to 
support reef management; (v) dissemination of information relating to existing credit 
mechanisms and training in the formation of savings and credit schemes; and (vi) 
identification of infrastructure required for implementation of coral reef management 
plans. 
2.
Provision of Grants to Participating Villages for the carrying out of investment 
activities in Participating Villages in the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku 
and in Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, including (i) 
implementation of reef management plans; (ii) construction of reef-caring 
infrastructure and carrying out of monitoring activities necessary for the 
implementation of reef management plans;  and (iii) undertaking alternative income 
generating activities.
3.
Carrying out of a study in Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan on 
the optimization of park zonation and delineation of sanctuary areas, including site 
surveys, and carrying out of workshops and dissemination of information on the park. 
4.
Carrying out of a study in the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku on the 
location of reef sanctuary areas, including site surveys, and carrying out of related 
workshops and information dissemination activities. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment 
Provisions A. General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
Page  12
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
Page  13
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for surveillance equipment  shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping 
Spare parts, replacement of minor surveillance equipment and fuel estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part D. 2 of the Project shall be procured in 
Page  14
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts A, C and D of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; provided, however, that community support services under Part 
D. 1 of the Project shall be sub-contracted to non-governmental organizations and 
universities, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, by the consulting 
firm selected for the carrying out the services under Parts A and C of the Project. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A. 2 (a) (iii) and C. 1 (d) (iii) of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for park and reef sanctuary zonation under Part D.3 and D.4 of the 
Project  and services for the evaluation study under Part A.4 (b) of the Project may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each sub-contract for services under 
Part D. 1 of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PMO, with 
competent full-time staff in adequate numbers, including a Project Management Office 
Director seconded from BAPPENAS, a Deputy Project Director, and a Secretary and Pimpro 
seconded from LIPI. The PMO shall be responsible for Project planning, budgeting, 
monitoring and reporting.
2.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1999, establish a national unit for 
the operation of a coral reef surveillance and enforcement system, headed by the 
Directorate General of Fisheries in the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, which shall be responsible, in cooperation with 
other relevant agencies of the Borrower and under the guidance of the national COREMAP 
Steering Committee, for: (a) issuing guidelines on coral reef surveillance to the 
surveillance and enforcement field units; (b) carrying out the surveillance and 
enforcement training under Part C. 3 of the Project; and (c) carrying out data 
analyses to monitor the effectiveness and impact of field surveillance units on the 
reduction of destructive practices on reefs.
3.
The Borrower shall establish, not later than June 30, 1999, surveillance units 
at the Provincial Fisheries Offices (Dinas Perikanan Tk. I), with competent staff in 
adequate numbers, under the guidance of the provincial COREMAP Steering Committee, in 
the following provinces:
(a)
in the Province of Maluku, to coordinate the activities of village reef 
watchers and surveillance efforts in the Lease Islands; 
(b)
in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, to operate coral reef surveillance 
patrols, including aerial surveillance patrols, at Taka Bone Rate in cooperation with 
the Borrower’s park conservation unit, Navy units and Police units, and shall 
coordinate the activities of village reef watchers; and 
(c)
in the Province of Irian Jaya, to operate coral reef surveillance patrols 
in the Padaido Islands, targeting destructive activities on coral reefs, in 
cooperation with the Borrower’s Navy and Police units, and coordinate the activities 
of the village reef watchers.
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1998, employ consultants to 
assist in the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the Project, and shall cause such 
consultants to employ, not later than February 15, 1999, qualified non-governmental 
Page  16
organizations and universities to assist in the carrying out of Part D. 1 of the 
Project. 
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1998, employ consultants to 
assist in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than September 30, 2000, furnish to the Bank for comments, and 
discuss with stakeholders involved in coral reef management, including government 
agencies, non-governmental organizations and private sector organizations, the draft 
COREMAP strategy and action plan prepared under Part A. 1 of the Project; and 
(b)
promptly after receipt of the Bank’s comments and the completion of the 
discussions with the organizations referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, take all 
actions necessary to finalize such COREMAP strategy and action plan, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments the draft legislation prepared under 
Part A. 2 (b) of the Project, not later than January 1, 2000;  and
(b)
thereafter, submit such draft legislation, revised in light of the Bank’s 
comments, to the appropriate legislative or executive organ for enactment or issuance.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments drafts of any laws, regulations and 
guidelines prepared under Part A. 2 (a) (ii) of the Project, not later than January 1, 
2000; and
(b)
thereafter, submit such draft instruments, revised in light of the Bank’s 
comments, to the appropriate legislative or executive organ for enactment or issuance.
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the studies under Part A. 2 (a) (iii) and C. 1 (d) (iii) of the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
not later than April 30, 2000,  furnish to the Bank for comments the 
recommendations of said studies;
(c)
not later than July 31, 2000, prepare an action plan for the 
implementation of the recommendations of said studies taking into account the comments 
of the Bank on such recommendations; and 
(d)
promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan. 
10.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C. 1 (a) of the Project;
(a)
prepare an operational manual for the implementation of Part C. 1 (b) and 
(c) and C. 2 (b) of the Project, such manual to include, among others: (i) the 
description of the operational system for field surveillance,  (ii)  required  
equipment, (iii) guidelines and operational standards for field patrolling, reporting, 
recording, monitoring and evaluation responsibilities and staffing; and (iv) the 
training program; and furnish such operational manual to the Bank for approval; and
(b)
issue the approved operational manual and periodically update such 
operational manual, as may be necessary, and furnish such updated operational manual 
to the Bank for approval.
11.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the site assessment and detailed design 
for surveillance activities carried out under Part C. 2 (a) of the Project; and
Page  17
(b)
carry out of Part C. 1 (c) (iii) and C. 2 (b) (iii) of the Project in 
accordance with such approved assessment and design.
12.
In carrying out Part D. 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall make Grants 
available to each Participating Village in Kabupaten Maluku Tengah and Selayar up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed Rp. 100,000,000 for Kabupaten Maluku Tengah and not 
to exceed Rp. 150,000,000 for Kabupaten Selayar, as follows:  
(a)
Grants up to thirty percent of the aggregate amount referred to above 
upon the adoption by the Participating Village of a draft coral reef management plan, 
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Grant Guidelines;
(b)
Grants up to an additional thirty percent of such aggregate amount upon 
compliance with sub-paragraph (a) above and the preparation of a plan for alternative 
income generation activities, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Grant 
Guidelines; and
(c)
Grants up to an additional forty percent of such aggregate amount upon 
compliance with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above and appropriate initial 
implementation of the coral reef management plan adopted by such Participating 
Village.  
13.
A Sub-project selected by a Participating Village shall qualify as eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if the Sub-project is an investment 
project, is technically and environmentally viable, has been designed in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant Guidelines, and the 
Sub-project proposal has been publicly discussed among, and agreed to by, the 
villagers in the Participating Village under the coordination of the LKMD. 
14.
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to the carrying out of each Sub-project 
the requirements of paragraph 13 of this Schedule shall have been complied with. 
15.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that a development 
project proposed to be carried out in, or in the vicinity of, the Lease Islands in the 
Province of Maluku, Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, or the Padaido 
Islands in the Province of Irian Jaya, shall only be carried out if a satisfactory 
environmental study of said proposed project shall have been completed and shall have 
established that any potential adverse effect on the project site will be avoided or 
mitigated in compliance with the Borrower’s applicable legislation.
16.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 15, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 15, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
17.
In accordance with the Borrower’s commitment to the protection of the interests 
of Isolated Vulnerable People, the Borrower shall take measures acceptable to the 
Bank:
(a)
to protect customary user rights of Isolated Vulnerable People; 
Page  18
(b)
to ensure that the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People 
under the Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences; 
(c)
through a process of informed participation, to involve concerned 
Isolated Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of coral reef management 
plans; and 
(d)
to mitigate or avoid adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused 
or likely to be caused by the Project.
18.
In carrying out Part A. 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
establish an independent evaluation panel with terms of reference and 
members acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
cause such independent panel to carry out an evaluation of the Project by 
not later than October 1, 2000; and 
(c)
furnish the results of the evaluation to the Bank for comments.
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Performance Indicators 
1.
The completed COREMAP national policy and strategy discussed with key 
stakeholders. Letter from BAPPENAS issued recommending the implementation of the 
strategy to the involved agencies. Sites and design for the second phase of COREMAP in 
accordance with strategy. 
2.
Institutional capacity evaluated as sufficiently improved to enable the 
expansion of COREMAP. 
3.
Compliance rates (number of patrol days without violations/total patrol days) 
increasing by 10% in pilot sites, following the introduction of the surveillance and 
enforcement system. 
4.
Community-based management pilots evaluated as workable models, and lessons of 
experience incorporated into the design of the second phase of COREMAP. 
5.
At least 75% of the output indicators agreed with the Bank reached, at least 75% 
of disbursements reached by April 30, 2001, and the Project implemented 
satisfactorily.
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (9) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,000,000.
Page  19
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
Page  20
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
