Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028373
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Loan Number 4305 IND           
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated May 1, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028373
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Loan Number 4305 IND           
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 942 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund; 
(C)
the Bank has received letters from the Recipient dated November 11, 1997, 
and January 21, 1998, describing a program designed to protect, rehabilitate and 
achieve sustainable use of coral reefs and associated ecosystems (COREMAP, as 
hereinafter defined) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of 
COREMAP;
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
Page  2
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in support of the Recipient’s execution of 
COREMAP, including the financing of the Project, which Project forms the first phase 
of COREMAP, and the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in accordance 
with the provisions of Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
(E)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of the Project by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount of six million nine hundred thousand dollars ($6,900,000) 
(the Loan); and WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” mean 
special drawing 
rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund 
in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its 
own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”; and
(viii) a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the 
General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen 
in which any further disbursement under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed 
the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the 
Recipient and any successor thereto; 
(b)
“COREMAP” means the Recipient’s national coral reef rehabilitation and 
management program as set out in the letter from the Recipient referred to in the 
Preamble to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(d)
"Grant" means a grant to be made available by the Recipient out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Participating Village for the financing of one or more 
Sub-projects as set out in the Grant Guidelines; 
(e)
“Grant Guidelines” means the guidelines dated March 7, 1998, as such 
Grant Guidelines may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(f)
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that 
have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof;
(g)
“Kabupaten” means the following districts of the Recipient: Kabupaten 
Maluku Tengah in the Province of Maluku and Kabupaten Selayar in the Province of 
Sulawesi Selatan; 
(h)
“Kepala Desa” means the Head of a village; 
(i)
“LIPI” means Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia, the Indonesian Institute 
of Sciences; 
(j)
“LKMD” means a village development council within a village, headed by 
the Kepala Desa; 
(k)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
Page  4
(l)
“Participating Village” means a village selected in agreement between the 
Recipient and the Bank for participation in Part D. 1 and D. 2 of the Project; 
(m)
"Pimpro" means a Project manager at the central level;
(n)
“PMO” means the Project Management Office maintained in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(o)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(p)
“Provincial COREMAP Steering Committee” means the committee established 
in the provinces of Irian Jaya, Maluku and Sulawesi Selatan for the coordination of 
Project activities; 
(q)
"Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Recipient; 
(r)
“Second phase of COREMAP” means such phase as described in the 
Recipient’s letter referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(t)
“Sub-project” means a specific investment activity to be carried out 
under Part D. 2 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through BAPPENAS as the coordinating agency and LIPI as the executing 
agency, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, financial, marine and social practices and with due 
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
Page  5
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
Page  6
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement, 
or 
(B)
the Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-maturing 
is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; 
and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from 
other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under this 
Agreement; and
(b)
an event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
COREMAP or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions, namely that the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of 
this Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Page  7
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi 
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the GEF
  Trust Fund Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Surveillance
350,000
60% of foreign
equipment under
expenditures,
Page  8
Part C.1 (c) (ii)
60% of local
of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 40% for other
items procured
locally
(2)
Awareness
activities:
(a) under Part B.1,
760,000
30%
    B.2 and B.3
    of the Project
(b) under Part B.4
 60,000
100%
    of the Project
(3)
Community 240,000
100%
support services
under Part D.1 (ii)
of the Project
(4)
Studies:
(a) Parts A, C and D
270,000
50%
    of the Project,
    except Part A.4 (b)
    of the Project
(b) Part A.4 (b)
160,000
100%
    of the Project
(5)
Operation and
 90,000
60%
maintenance
for surveillance
under Part C.2 (b) (ii)
of the Project,
excluding aerial
surveillance
(6)
Conferences,
110,000
45%
workshops and
seminars
under Parts A, C and 
D of the Project
(7)
Consultants'
840,000
50%
services
under Parts A, C
and D of the Project
(8)
Unallocated
220,000
_______
TOTAL
     3,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;
(c)
the term “Awareness activities” means services, publications, 
Page  9
distribution of materials, workshops, awards, and per diem and travel for relevant 
staff under Part B of the Project;
(d)
the term “Community support services” means services by non-governmental 
organizations and universities; and
(e)
the term “Operation and maintenance for surveillance” means operation and 
maintenance of equipment procured under Part C. 1 (c) of the Project, allowances for 
village reef watchers, and replacement of minor surveillance equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;  and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories  (1) and 
(5) until the Operational Manual has been issued pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) operation and maintenance 
for surveillance; (iii) conferences, workshops and seminars; (iv) awareness activities 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (v) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each, and 
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent 
each, including contracts for studies; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Recipient’s COREMAP. The objective of the 
Project is to assist the Recipient in establishing a viable framework for a national 
coral reef management system that promotes the protection, rehabilitation, 
conservation and sustainable use of coral reefs and associated ecosystems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Program Strategy and Management 
1.
COREMAP Policy and Strategic Planning
(a)
Strengthening the national policy for coral reef protection and 
sustainable use.
(b)
Strengthening the national COREMAP strategy and preparation of an action 
plan, including preparation of guidelines for COREMAP support and carrying out of 
strategy discussion workshops. 
2.
Legal Framework for Coral Reef Management
(a)
Strengthening the Recipient’s national legal framework relating to coral 
reef ecosystems, including (i) review of existing legislation; (ii) preparation of 
draft laws, regulations, decrees and guidelines, as needed,  to control destructive 
practices on coral reefs, and (iii) carrying out of legal studies on coral reef 
management, including preparation of guidelines for the collection of evidence on 
major destructive activities on reefs, and a study on conflict resolution among 
stakeholders in coral reef areas.
(b)
Strengthening the Recipient’s legal framework for coral reef management 
Page  10
through the provision of assistance in the evaluation and preparation: (i) in the 
Recipient’s province of Maluku, of provincial and Kabupaten legislation on coral 
reefs, taking into account local cultural assets, including customary user rights; 
(ii) of Kabupaten legislation for the endorsement of community-based management plans 
of coral reef resources in the Province of Maluku; (iii) of Kabupaten legislation for 
the endorsement of community-based management plans of coral reef resources in the 
Province of Sulawesi Selatan; and (iv) of a legal framework for conservation 
management of the Taka Bone Rate National Park in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, 
including the carrying out of workshops and seminars. 
3.
Project Management
(a)
Carrying out of national workshops for Project launch, planning, review 
and evaluation, and comparative studies for Project staff.
(b)
Carrying out of training for Project staff, Participating Villages and 
other key stakeholders in coral reef and Project management. 
4.
Preparation of Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Investments for the 
Second Phase of 
COREMAP
(a)
Carrying out of detailed designs of coral reef rehabilitation and 
management for investments proposed for the second phase of COREMAP in the Provinces 
of Irian Jaya, Maluku, Sulawesi Selatan and Sulawesi Tenggara, including preparation 
of detailed design and a draft implementation plan. 
(b)
Carrying out of an evaluation study of the Project.
Part B:
Public Awareness
Increasing public awareness of coral reef rehabilitation and sustainable 
management of coral reef ecosystems, fostering public stewardship of coral reefs, and 
changing destructive behavior by the general public,  through:  
1.
the design, implementation and evaluation of a national awareness campaign, 
including development of multi-media awareness instruments, carrying out of awareness 
development training for relevant government institutions, non-governmental 
organizations and media reporters, and carrying out of seminars, consultations and 
surveys; 
2.
the design, implementation and evaluation of a regional awareness campaign in 
the Provinces of Maluku, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Sulawesi Selatan and Riau, including 
development and dissemination of appropriate public relations materials; 
3.
the preparation and dissemination of information on COREMAP, including 
publication and distribution of guidelines, newsletters and other awareness materials 
to the relevant COREMAP stakeholders in the Provinces of Irian Jaya, Maluku, Nusa 
Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Sulawesi Selatan, Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi 
Utara, Sumatera Barat, Sumatera Utara, and Riau; and carrying out of national 
workshops, conferences and consultations; and
4.
the design and implementation of an award and public recognition system to 
reward outstanding performance by villages, groups of individuals and individuals in 
coral reef management and conservation.
Part C:
Coral Reef Surveillance and Enforcement Activities
1.
Strengthening surveillance and enforcement activities for coral reef protection 
at the national level, through:
(a)
the preparation of guidelines and operational standards for field 
surveillance and enforcement;
(b)
the establishment and operation of a national coral reef surveillance and 
enforcement unit responsible for the coordination of field surveillance and 
enforcement units, including provision of relevant equipment; 
Page  11
(c)
provision of surveillance equipment to field coral reef surveillance and 
enforcement units operating in: (i) the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku; (ii) 
Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan; and (iii) the Padaido Islands in 
the Province of Irian Jaya; and
(d)
carrying out of (i) annual workshops for judges, prosecutors, policy 
makers, and senior officials dealing with marine enforcement, on curbing destructive 
activities on coral reefs; (ii) national and international workshops on coral reef 
protection from destructive activities; and (iii) a study for the curbing of 
destructive activities on coral reefs, including poison testing, and preparation of an 
action plan.
2.
Strengthening surveillance and enforcement activities for coral reef protection 
at COREMAP sites, through:
(a)
the carrying out of a site assessment for the establishment of a 
surveillance system for the Padaido Islands in the Province of Irian Jaya; and 
(b)
the establishment and operation of: (i) a coral reef surveillance system 
for the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku, including a reef watchers’ system; 
(ii) a coral reef surveillance and enforcement unit and system for the Taka Bone Rate 
National Park in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, including aerial surveillance and 
reef watcher system; and (iii) a coral reef surveillance unit and system in the 
Padaido Islands in the Province of Irian Jaya, targeting destructive activities on 
coral reefs.
3.
Strengthening the capacity for implementation of surveillance and enforcement 
activities for coral reef protection through:
(a)
the preparation of training modules for surveillance of coral reef areas 
and the enforcement of the prohibition of destructive practices on coral reefs; and 
(b)
the carrying out of training for: (i) government officials, 
non-governmental organizations and fishers in ocean and coastal management and 
surveillance and enforcement; (ii) community groups and non-governmental organizations 
in reef watching; and (iii) law enforcement officers in reef watching and law 
enforcement in coral reef areas.
Part D:
Community-Based Management
1.
Improvement of the condition of coral reef ecosystems in (i) the Lease Islands 
in the Province of Maluku and (ii) in Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi 
Selatan, through: 
(a)
(i)
the carrying out in the Participating Villages of consultation and 
awareness activities on issues affecting coral reef management; (ii) the carrying out 
in Participating Villages of community training and extension activities in 
sustainable coral reef management and technical skills; (iii) the strengthening, and 
establishment of, community groups, in Participating Villages, for improved coral reef 
management; and (iv) the carrying out in Participating Villages of workshops and 
comparative studies; 
(b)
the preparation of coral reef management plans by the Participating 
Villages; and
(c)
the provision of technical assistance and training to Participating 
Villages in: (i) sustainable management of coral reefs; (ii) participatory reef 
monitoring; (iii) the development of proposals for coral reef management and 
alternative income generation activities; (iv) the development of micro-enterprises to 
support reef management; (v) dissemination of information relating to existing credit 
mechanisms and training in the formation of savings and credit schemes; and (vi) 
identification of infrastructure required for implementation of coral reef management 
plans. 
2.
Provision of Grants to Participating Villages for the carrying out of investment 
activities in Participating Villages in the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku 
and in Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, including (i) 
Page  12
implementation of reef management plans; (ii) construction of reef-caring 
infrastructure and carrying out of monitoring activities necessary for the 
implementation of reef management plans; and (iii) undertaking alternative income 
generating activities.
3.
Carrying out of a study in Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan on 
the optimization of park zonation and delineation of sanctuary areas, including site 
surveys, and carrying out of workshops and dissemination of information on the park. 
4.
Carrying out of a study in the Lease Islands in the Province of Maluku on the 
location of reef sanctuary areas, including site surveys, and carrying out of related 
workshops and information dissemination activities.
*        *       * 
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for surveillance equipment  shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Shopping Replacement of minor surveillance equipment estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  13
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts A, C and D of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; provided, however, that community support services under Part 
D.1 of the Project shall be sub-contracted to non-governmental organizations and 
universities, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, by the consulting 
firm selected for the carrying out the services under Parts A and C of the Project. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A.2 (a) (iii) and C.1 (d) (iii) of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for park and reef sanctuary zonation under Part D.3 and D.4 of the 
Project  and services for the evaluation study under Part A.4 (b) of the Project may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
Page  14
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each sub-contract for services under 
Part D.1 of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PMO, with 
competent full-time staff in adequate numbers, including a Project Management Office 
Director seconded from BAPPENAS, a Deputy Project Director, and a Secretary and Pimpro 
seconded from LIPI. The PMO shall be responsible for Project planning, budgeting, 
monitoring and reporting.
2.
The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 1999, establish a national unit for 
the operation of a coral reef surveillance and enforcement system, headed by the 
Directorate General of Fisheries in the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, which shall be responsible, in cooperation with 
other relevant agencies of the Recipient and under the guidance of the national 
COREMAP Steering Committee, for: (a) issuing guidelines on coral reef surveillance to 
the surveillance and enforcement field units; (b) carrying out the surveillance and 
enforcement training under Part C. 3 of the Project; and (c) carrying out data 
analyses to monitor the effectiveness and impact of field surveillance units on the 
reduction of destructive practices on reefs.
3.
The Recipient shall establish, not later than June 30, 1999, surveillance units 
at the Provincial Fisheries Offices (Dinas Perikanan Tk. I), with competent staff in 
adequate numbers, under the guidance of the provincial COREMAP Steering Committee, in 
the following provinces:
(a)
in the Province of Maluku, to coordinate the activities of village reef 
watchers and surveillance efforts in the Lease Islands; 
(b)
in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, to operate coral reef surveillance 
patrols, including aerial surveillance patrols, at Taka Bone Rate in cooperation with 
the Recipient’s park conservation unit, Navy units and Police units, and shall 
coordinate the activities of village reef watchers; and 
(c)
in the Province of Irian Jaya, to operate coral reef surveillance patrols 
in the Padaido Islands, targeting destructive activities on coral reefs, in 
cooperation with the Recipient’s Navy and Police units, and coordinate the activities 
of the village reef watchers.
4.
The Recipient shall, not later than December 31, 1998, employ consultants to 
assist in the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the Project, and shall cause such 
consultants to employ, not later than February 15, 1999, qualified non-governmental 
organizations and universities to assist in the carrying out of Part D. 1 of the 
Project. 
5.
The Recipient shall, not later than December 31, 1998, employ consultants to 
assist in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
6.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
not later than September 30, 2000, furnish to the Bank for comments, and 
discuss with stakeholders involved in coral reef management, including government 
agencies, non-governmental organizations and private sector organizations, the draft 
COREMAP strategy and action plan prepared under Part A. 1 of the Project; and 
(b)
promptly after receipt of the Bank’s comments and the completion of the 
Page  15
discussions with the organizations referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, take all 
actions necessary to finalize such COREMAP strategy and action plan, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.
7.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments the draft legislation prepared under 
Part A. 2 (b) of the Project, not later than January 1, 2000;  and
(b)
thereafter, submit such draft legislation, revised in light of the Bank’s 
comments, to the appropriate legislative or executive organ for enactment or issuance.
8.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments drafts of any laws, regulations and 
guidelines prepared under Part A. 2 (a) (ii) of the Project, not later than January 1, 
2000; and
(b)
thereafter, submit such draft instruments, revised in light of the Bank’s 
comments, to the appropriate legislative or executive organ for enactment or issuance.
9.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
carry out the studies under Part A. 2 (a) (iii) and C. 1 (d) (iii) of the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
not later than April 30, 2000,  furnish to the Bank for comments the 
recommendations of said studies;
(c)
not later than July 31, 2000, prepare an action plan for the 
implementation of the recommendations of said studies taking into account the comments 
of the Bank on such recommendations; and 
(d)
promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan. 
10.
The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part C. 1 (a) of the Project;
(a)
prepare an operational manual for the implementation of Part C. 1 (b) and 
(c) and C. 2 (b) of the Project, such manual to include, among others: (i) the 
description of the operational system for field surveillance,  (ii)  required 
equipment,  (iii) guidelines and operational standards for field patrolling, 
reporting, recording, monitoring and evaluation responsibilities and staffing; and 
(iv) the training program; and furnish such operational manual to the Bank for 
approval; and
(b)
issue the approved operational manual and periodically update such 
operational manual, as may be necessary, and furnish such updated operational manual 
to the Bank for approval.
11.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the site assessment and detailed design 
for surveillance activities carried out under Part C. 2 (a) of the Project; and
(b)
carry out of Part C. 1 (c) (iii) and C. 2 (b) (iii) of the Project in 
accordance with such approved assessment and design.
12.
In carrying out Part D. 2 of the Project, the Recipient shall make Grants 
available to each Participating Village in Kabupaten Maluku Tengah and Selayar up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed Rp. 100,000,000 for Kabupaten Maluku Tengah and not 
to exceed Rp. 150,000,000 for Kabupaten Selayar, as follows:  
(a)
Grants up to thirty percent of the aggregate amount referred to above 
upon the adoption by the Participating Village of a draft coral reef management plan, 
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Grant Guidelines;
(b)
Grants up to an additional thirty percent of such aggregate amount upon 
Page  16
compliance with sub-paragraph (a) above and the preparation of a plan for alternative 
income generation activities, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Grant 
Guidelines; and
(c)
Grants up to an additional forty percent of such aggregate amount upon 
compliance with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above and appropriate initial 
implementation of the coral reef management plan adopted by such Participating 
Village.  
13.
A Sub-project selected by a Participating Village shall qualify as eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if the Sub-project is an investment 
project, is technically and environmentally viable, has been designed in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant Guidelines, and the 
Sub-project proposal has been publicly discussed among, and agreed to by, the 
villagers in the Participating Village under the coordination of the LKMD. 
14.
The Recipient shall ensure that, prior to the carrying out of each Sub-project 
the requirements of paragraph 13 of this Schedule shall have been complied with. 
15.
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that a development 
project proposed to be carried out in, or in the vicinity of, the Lease Islands in the 
Province of Maluku, Taka Bone Rate in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan, or the Padaido 
Islands in the Province of Irian Jaya, shall only be carried out if a satisfactory 
environmental study of said proposed project shall have been completed and shall have 
established that any potential adverse effect on the project site will be avoided or 
mitigated in compliance with the Recipient’s applicable legislation.
16.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 15, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 15, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
17.
In accordance with the Recipient’s commitment to the protection of the interests 
of Isolated Vulnerable People, the Recipient shall take measures acceptable to the 
Bank:
(a)
to protect customary user rights of Isolated Vulnerable People; 
(b)
to ensure that the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People 
under the Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences; 
(c)
through a process of informed participation, to involve concerned 
Isolated Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of coral reef management 
plans; and 
(d)
to mitigate or avoid adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused 
or likely to be caused by the Project.
18.
In carrying out Part A. 3 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
Page  17
(a)
establish an independent evaluation panel with terms of reference and 
members acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
cause such independent panel to carry out an evaluation of the Project by 
not later than October 1, 2000; and 
(c)
furnish the results of the evaluation to the Bank for comments.
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Performance Indicators 
1.
The completed COREMAP national policy and strategy discussed with key 
stakeholders. Letter from BAPPENAS issued recommending the implementation of the 
strategy to the involved agencies. Sites and design for the second phase of COREMAP in 
accordance with strategy. 
2.
Institutional capacity evaluated as sufficiently improved to enable the 
expansion of COREMAP. 
3.
Compliance rates (number of patrol days without violations/total patrol days) 
increasing by 10% in pilot sites, following the introduction of the surveillance and 
enforcement system. 
4.
Community-based management pilots evaluated as workable models, and lessons of 
experience incorporated into the design of the second phase of COREMAP. 
5.
At least 75% of the output indicators agreed with the Bank reached, at least 75% 
of disbursements reached by March 31, 2001, and Project implemented satisfactorily.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
Page  18
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
Page  19
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
