Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10478-BEN Type: (PCR)
SARMIENTO,/ X31680 / T9032/ OEDD1                     ReportNo. 10478
PROJ"'CT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1127-BEN, CREDIT 1127-1-BEN)
APRIL 2, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
The CFA Franc, Benin's currency, is tied to the French Franc (FF)
in the ratio of FF 1= CFAF 50. The French Franc floats within the
parameters set by the European Monetary System.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA       Caisse Autonomne d'Armotissement
(Government Sinking Fund)
CARDER    Centre d'Action R6gionale pour le D6veloppement Rural
(Regional Rural Development Agency)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
CLCAM     Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole Mutuel
(Local Savings and Loan Cooperative)
CRCAM     Caisse R6gionale de Cr6dit Agricole Mutuel
(Regional Savings and Loan Cooperative)
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GRVC      Groupement R6volutionnaire a Vocation Coop6rative
(Revolutionary Cooperative Group)
GV        Groupement Villag6ois
(Village Group)
MDRAC     Minist&re du Developpement RuraL et de l'Action Coop6rative
(Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
SONACEB   Soci6t6 Nationale pour la Commercialisation et 1'Exportation du
8enin (Marketing and Export Agency)
SONAGRI   Soci6t6 Nationale de l'Agriculture
SONAPRA   Soci6t6 Nationale pour la Production Agricole
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OmCAL US ONLY
Wasleington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DiwctscuCef,aI
Opetatins Evaluatio
April 2, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Benin - Borgou Province
Rural DeveloDment Proiect (Creditls 1127/1127-1-BEN}
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Benin - Borgou Province Rural De-relopment Project (Credits
1127/1127-1-BEN)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II prepared
by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                              2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credits 1127-BEN and 1127-1-BEN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .. ....................... 
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..........................  iii
PART It    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAIIK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .
A.    Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . .    1
B.    Background  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . e   * * * * * *   1
C.    Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .   2
D.    Project Design and Organization . . e v v  v   . v  . . .   2
E.    Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
F.    Project Results . . . . e   . . . . . . . e e   . . . . .   5
G.    Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
H.    Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
I.    Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . .  . .     .   7
J.    Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
K.    Consulting Serviceso.c.....            * 0.    * .        8
L.    Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . .   8
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROi BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .   11
PART III:   STATISTICAL DATA  .....................    15
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . .   15
2.    Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
3.    Credit Disbursements  .... -........    17
4.    Project Implementation  ...............   18
5.    Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
6.    Project Results. . . . .                  . . . . .  .  21
7.    Status of Covenants  .................    24
8.    Use of Bank Resources .................    28
ANNEX 1:    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
MAP:  IBRD 15215R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients u,ly in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credits 1127-BEN and 1127-1-BEN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Borgou
Province Rural Development Project in Benin, for which Credit 1127-BEN in the
amount of SDR 15.7 million was approved in April 1981 and Credit 1127-1-BEN in
the amount of SDR 1.8 million was approved in April 1986. Both credits were
closed in December 1988, three years behind schedule for Credit 1127-BEN. At
Credit closing, approximately 90% of Credit 1127-BEN had been disbutsed and
the balance was cancelled. Credit 1127-1-BEN was fully disbursed. Final
disbursement date of Credit 1127-BEN was October 1989 and of Credit 1127-1-BEN
was July 1989.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agriculture
Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department of the
Africa Regional Office. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the
implementing, agency prepared a PCR in conformity with the "old style" PCR
guidelines, but it did not adequately reflect all the points raised in the new
Guidelines. Part II is therefore a summary containing the main conclusions
with respect to the project as presented in the Borrower's PCR.
Preparation of the PCR was done at Bank headquarters over a year
after the project was closed. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Credit Agreement for Cr. 1127-BEN and the Amending Credit
Agreement for Cr. 1127-1-BEN; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and reports prepared by the implementing agency.



- iii -
EZNIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
iCrdit  1127-BEN and 1127-1-BENs
M&UK2TION SUMMARY
objectives (Part r, paras 3-7)
1.        Following earlier disagreements between Government and IDA on the
approach to rural development that had led to cancellation of an earlier
IDA-financed project, the policy environment began to improve towards the
late 19700 to permit the preparation of the proeont project that aimed at
improving rural incomes and promoting agricultural exports by strengthening
institutions,providing servLces to farmers in the Borgou province and by
provLding inputs and other direct services to farmers. Specifically, it war
intended to improve cotton production for export and simultaneously to
increase food crop productioci for local consumption.
ImDlementatLon Sxperience (Parr I, paras 8-21)
2.        In spite of some organirational changes made by Government in the
course of project execution, projec- implementation went well with farmers
responding positively to the incen' ve prices and supportive framework for
cotton production as well as to higF  yielding varieties of maize.  The
1 ego technical assistance team undcJbtedly helped to strengthen CARDER-
Borgou and SONAPRA ard to support research, but the absence of a formal
training program for counterparts together with staff transfers meant that
this resource was not exploited to the full. Bank supervision was regular
and effective, permitting prompt response to problems such as the
inadequacy of ginning capacity, which was oventually resolved with the
financing of two additional ginneries under a supplementary credit, Cr.
1127-1-BEN. One area which was not supervised effectively, either by the
Bank or project management, was construction work where delays were
considerable.
1.        Financial management proved to be the weakest point, with CARDER
accounts not audited until 1985 and a consistently less than satisfactory
accounting system. Performance of the technical assistants in this area
appears to have been weak. An issue not foreseen at appraisal was the
difficulties that Government would experience in providing the agreed
counterpart funding, which were pervasive from 1984. Slow disbursement
over the initial four years of the project (Part III, 3) was partly due to
the appreciation of the US dollar in relation to the CFAP which permitted
project extension for another five years.
4.        A major factor in the increased crop production was the
availability of animal traction which permitted cultivation of larger areas
of land. By the end of the project over 27,000 farmers owned traction
equipment, almost three times the project target. Research developed new
varieties of cotton and maize but was not successful in developing a higher
yiLlding variety of sorghum or in proposing acceptable technical packages
for food crops. Communication links between research and extension were
weak. The bottom-lands development program failed, mainly because of lack
of farmers' participation as the benefits of the higher level technology
were not proven.
5.        The GRVC (collective type of cooperatLve) did not become the main
vehicle for project impact as envisaged, with numbers increasing to only
167 rathir than 500. By contrast, the informal village groups, GVs, which



- iv -
handle input supply and primary marketing of cotton, expanded significantly
and benefitted from approximately US$ 10.7 million in "ristourneso which
were used for coummunity developments.
Reaults (Part I, paras 22-26, Part III, 6)
6.        At the end of the implementation period, the project had reached
40,400 beneficiaries and total production of cropE exceeded targets by the
following proportiones cotton 163%, maize 56%, sorghum 26%, groundnuto 33%,
and cowpeas 34%. While co.tton yield was higher than appraisal estimates
and maize yield equivalent, the major explanatory factor for production
increases in other cropu was area expansion.  Producers' net cash income
was estLmated to be double the expected amount in North Borgou and over 50%
higher in South Borgou. Another indication of improved living -"%ndards
was the significant increase in tin roofs.
7*        Government cash flow with respect to the project %;&m    oe
indicated precisely but is closely linked to that of the cotton subesctor.
This was positive until 1964/S5 and turned negative, before becoming
positive again in 1989/90.  Up until 1984/85 the surplus on the cotton                    V
account supported most of the operating expenses of the four CARDZRs in the
cotton-producing provinces, something that Governnent should have done
directly.
8.        The project's ERR has been estimated at 35% compared with an
appraisal estimate of 21%. The ERR at completion is, however, lower than
estimated at the time of approval of the Supplementary Credit (50%). The
increase over appraisal is mainly attributable to the higher than expected
production of all crops and the improvement in quality of cotton exports.
The lower rate in comparison with the one at the time of the Supplementary
Credit may be attributed to the fact that incremental cotton production at
the end of the project was 60,000 tons compared with the earlier estimate
of 80,000. The estimate is however higher than that estimated by
Government in its PCR (18%). This is mainly due to the assumptions used.
In the Borrower's estimate, actual producer prlces from 1982/83 to 1989/90
were used (ranging from CFAF 60 to CFAF 110/kg for cotton for example),
also the borrower includes subsidies on fertilizer as costs in additLon to
project cost estimates, and the actual amounts paid by farmers. Part IIX
prices are derived from the World Bank commodity price projections for
inputs and outputs. Another reason ls that the Borrower did not convert
historical costs and benefits into constant terms.
Sustainabilitv (Part I, para 27)
9.        As there is a follow-on project, oustainability is not an
immediate issue. In the future, the threat posed by the shortaye of funds
to maintain Government services should be mitigated by the increased roles
of farmers' associations and the private sector and a recently approved
project to trim the size of such services (Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project).
Pindings and Lessons Learned
10.       Tho key finding of this project is that provision of the
appropriate framework can elicit the desired production response from
farmers. The organizational problems experienced did not seriously disrupt
services to farmers, with the result that the response continued to be
strong. Components, such as credit for animal traction equipment which met
a felt need of farmers, were successful, while those which did not, such as
bottom-lands development, failed. The crucial importance of taking
proposed beneficiaries' requirements into account is clear.
11.       In spite of precautions, financial management was weak and of
continuing concern throughout the project. More attention should be given



to supervision of there aspects at the early stages of project
implementation.
12.       Lack of intermediate sanctions with respect to ron-compliance of
covenants, meant that no effective action wae taken when the Borrower did
not comply with certain of the subsidiary prov!.sionu of the legal
agreement. Either the provisions shotuld permit more flexibility with
respect to compliance or appropriate sanctions should be developed and
enforced.



PROJECT COMPLETION R-EPR
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credits 1127-BEN and 1127-1-BEN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FR-O BANK'8 PERSPECTIVX
A.  Proiewt Identity
Project Name:       :    Borgou Province Rural Development Project
Credit No:                1127-BEK; 1127-1 BEN
RVP Unit:           :    Africa Regional Office
Country:            :    Republic of Benin
Sector:             s    Agriculture
Subsectors          s    Rural Development
B. Backaround
1.       Benin has a land area of about 112,600 km2.  Its population was
estimated at 4.3 million in 1987, and growing at 3.1 percent per annum.
With an estimated annual income per capita of US$340 in 1987, Benin remains
one of the poorest nation in the world. While, in the 1970s, budgetary
allocations reflected heavy emphasis on industrial and infrastructural
activities (79%), insufficient provision was made to meet food production
objectives. In order to bring the situation into balance, Government
adopted a policy for rural development which was to achieve self-
sufficiency in food production, to create internal markets by increasing
agricultural incomes, and to generate exportable surpluses. However,
policy execution was hindered by a shortaae of properly identified
projects, restricted finances, and a series of institutional changes
reulting from Governments frequent changes of senior officials.
2.       A number of semi-autonomous State Organizations were responsible
for the execution of programs related to Government's policy. Five such
organizations fell under the general supervision of the Ministry of Rural
Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC) including SONAGRI which was
responsible for procurement of inputs and cotton ginning and SONACE8, in
charge of the export of all agricultural products except oil palm products.
The private sector handled almost all food crop marketing, with minimal
intervention from Government. In 1976 Government established provincial
development agencies called CARDERs (Centres d'Action Regional pour le
Developpement Rural). These agencies represented MDRAC and were made
responsible for the organization and promotion of primary agricultural
production, through the provision of extension services, agricultural
inputs, cooperative and primary marketing services, rural roads
maintenance, water and other infrastructure development.
3.       The Bank-financed Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (Cr. 307-BEN, Part
III) was the first effort to develop Benin's agriculture on a regional
basis. It encountered a number of problems, most of which were related to
Government's changes in its agricultural philosophy and institutions during
the implementation poriod. These problems resulted in the Bank's
suspension of disbursements for nine months. The project was terminated
prematurely by mutual consent of IDA and the Government. In view of the
commitment of Government to pursue a more rational approach to rural
development, a follow-up Zou-Borgou project was designed by a local team
with the help of technical assistance. This was discarded on the basis
that it was as yet premature for such a project as structural problems
prevailed, but the Bank agreed to an interim Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 716-BEN, Part IrI) which was approved in May, 1977. Funds from this
Credit were used to prepare the Borgou Province Rural Development Project.



- 2-
C.  Project Obloctiveo and De_cription
4.      Q&0"gtJves.  The mdin objectives of the project were to improve
the level of rural incomes and to promote exports by expanding agricultural
production through the strengthening and support of institutions and of
technical infrastructure integrated with improved extension, cooperative,
training and social services. Over four years, the project aimed at
reaching some 39,000 farm tdmilies, approximately 57% of those in the
Province.
5.       Comoonents.  These included:  (a, reorganizing and strengthening
the project's executing agency, the CARDER Borgou and providing improved
seeds; (b) consolidation and development of farmers' cooperatives; (c)
provision of inputs and credit; (d) conducting applied research on cotton
and foodcrops; (e) expansion of animal traction; (f) 7:ehabilitation of
bottomlands and construction of wells; (g) creation of a project monitoring
and evaluation system; and (h) strengthening of SONAGRI. Unde. the
Supplementary Credit, cofinanced with the French Aid Agency, CCCE, a new
component was added to construct two cotton ginneries and storage
facilities and to purchase trucks.
D.  Proiect Design ind Oraanization
6.       Design.  The new political environment, in which there was a clear
expression on the part of Government to proceed with rural development
along more rational lines, created a more favorable environment for design
of a follow-up to the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project. Lessons were drawn from
the latter project, in particular the need to emphasize organizational
aspects and avoid commitment to a single cash crop with the resulting
inability to respond to farmers' requirements. The present project was
therefore predicated on promotion of both cash (cotton and groundr"uts) and
food crops (maize, sorghum and cowpeas). The project concept wati not
innovative, rather it was a question of diffusion of tried techn.,ques such
as animal traction and cash inputs. Given that the CARDER was assigned
responsibility for execution of the project, the project's scope and
province-wide scale were appropriate. Project preparation was carried out
in a thorough manner in Benin under the Technical Assistance Project, with
the supervision of Bank staff from the Resident Mission at Abidjan.
7.       Organization.  In reorganizing the CARDER-Borgou, one of the
project's major objectives was to simplify its structure. This was
accomplished at the start of the project, but the situation changed
dramatically in late 1985 when all CARDERs were subject to a new, more
comprehensive organigram which took no account of che specific
characteristics of Benin's six provinces. Not surprisingly, the number of
personnel, which had been contained within project estimates up to that
date. increased significantly (by one third in a single year). No
ass, .ent of the impact of the changed organizational structure on project
or, ions is given in supervision reports, but the Government acknowledged
t,  resources made available to the CARDERs were unlikely to be sufficient
- .aable them to satisfactorily implement all the activities assigned to
;hem under the new arrangements.
8.       An unforeseen reorganization of institutions involved with the
project took place in 1983 when SONAn.RI was abolished to be replaced by
SONAPRA. Initially the division of responsibilities between SONAPRA and
the CARDERs was inadequately defined, but the CARDERs ended up taking over
responsibility for the cotton ginneries. This became a major activity for
CARDER-Borgou and reinforced management's focus on cotton. With the
restructuring of the cotton subsector in 1987 the ginneries were
transferred to SONAPRA.
9.       As CARDER staff was relatively inexperienced, it was considered
that implementation could best be accomplished by contracting a technical
assistance team to support those disciplines which were perceived to be
weak. At the start of the project, the team consisted of six experts



- 3 -
recruited to work directly in the CARDER as well as a Financial Controller
and a Chief Accountant for SONAGRI, an Agricultural iconomist to work in
th3 project's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit under MDRAC, a Cotton
Researcher attached to Cotton Reaearch Agency, RCF, and a Foodcrops
Researcher in Horgou. The expatriate team for the CARDER was placed under
the local Director/Project Manager, an administrative arrangement which
worked well. The overall performance of most of the technical expatriate
team was satisfactory. While performance of some of the financial
Technical Assistance staff, especially the last chief accountant of CARDER
Borgou, was satisfactory, most of the financial experts performed below
expectations and both CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA still had problems with the
accounting and financial systems at the end of the project. The project
suffered from the lack of a formal training plan for the technical
assistants to provide in-service training co their counterparts with the
result that training was ign- -d _. nome instances and local staff did not
receive full benefit from ths.     sen-e of the technical assistants.
10.      The project's monitoring dnd evaluation unit (M&E) was originally
designed to be independent of CARDER admini tration, answering directly to
MDRAC. Although the intention had been to permit the unit more
independence of judgement thar. if it had been integrated into the structure
of the CARDER, the unit's position - outside managerial control of the
CARDER, yet depending on it financially - did not encourage good relations,
to the extent that parallel reports on project activities were published
simultaneously. Following a national Eeminar on monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) in 1985, which established inter alJa that M & E units should be
considered ae management tools by CARDER Directors, the units were fully
integrated into the CARDERs. In Borgou, relations improved between CARDER
management and the M & E unit and more effective use was made of its
resources.
11.      Provision was made for the establishment of a Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), headed by a Pro,ect Coordinator, which was effectively the
liaison office of the project in the capital. A senior staff member of the
Ministry was appointed to this pout. While in theory a wide range of
activities had been included in the job description, left unsupervised the
Project Coordinator was ineffective und only undertook the tasks of his
choosing. Discarding of the PCU at the time of CARLER reorganization in
1985 had no effect on the project.
E. Proiect Imolementation
12.      In the light of the excellent project results (section F), project
implerantation can be judged to have been successful although not without
problemns. Farmers were highly responsive to the appeal to increase cotton
and food crops production, which was supported by adequate producer pricing
in the case of cotton, and (after the initial two years) the timely
availability of inputs. There is evidence that the improved techniques
introduced for growing cotton assisted in the acceptance of similar
techniques in the production of food crops. The project introduced
improved maize varieties that were compatible with cotton growing and
demonstrated the high potential for maize production in Borgou. Production
increased significantly although farmer- did not utilize the full technical
recommendations (use of inputs) to obta... the expected yields of these
improved varieties.
13.      A major factor in the production increases was the widespread
diffusion of animal traction. Already by PY2 there were 12,600 pairs of
oxen in the project area, of which three-quarters were considered
operational. By the end of the project over 27,000 farmers owned animal
traction equipment, way above the project target of 10,000. The
availability of animal traction alleviated a major constraint - labor - and
permitted more widespread cultivation of available land. Initial shortages
of extension staff trained in animal traction techniques and problems of
destumping did little to curtail the growth although the range of equipment



-4-
used remained limited.  The project had only allowed for financing of the
equipment and not of oxen, as it was considered that most farmers already
hed anlmals. In fact, demand for credit to purchase oxen was strong and
had to be met from an alternative source, the local agricultural savings
and credit institution (CRCAM).
14.      In the came of cotton production, a number of ddjustmento were
necessary in the management of this oubsector in view of the unanticipated
growth. Among the many problems faced by the industry at the start oi tne
project were the lack of maintenance of factoriso which were in need of
rehabilitation, (compounded by a shortage of engineering capability) and
the absence of clarity on the role of RONAPRA, which heeitated to f-nance
the purchase of seasonal inputs and seed cotton purchases. Both problems
were addressed in the course of the project. Ir. general, primary marketing
was satisfactorily dealt with by the CARDER in association with the
farmers, associations (GV), but poor handling, storage and processing
resulted in losses in quantity and quality. 1-r a number of years, Benin
received export prices for its cotton below the average for West African
suppliers. With nominal ginning capacity of 72,000 tons available in 1986
and national production expected to increase in the next few years to
130,000 tons, the need for additional capacity, particularly in the major
producing region of the Borgou, became pronounced. This provided the
grounds for funding the two new ginneries of 30,000 tons each under CCCE
financing and the Supplementary Credit.
15.      Cotton research supported under the project was successful in
introducing higher yielding new varieties. Food crop research started
slowly, mainly because the project designers had not foreseen the need to
finance manual labor for this purpose. Although the performance of the
composite variety of maize which was introduced was clearly superior to
local varieties, it was not resistant to streak and was only replaced in
1988 by a variety resistant to both streak and drought. The project was
not successful in developing and introducing any higher yielding variety of
sorghum acceptable to farmers. Systems research suffered from inadequate
discussion with extension staff or with farmers themselves, with the result
that proposals put forward did not meet farmers' requirements. A major
problem affecting the successful implementation of research was the
shortage of agents in the field.
16.      The bottom-lands development program, which was to have increased
rice production, did not succeed, mainly because of a lack of farmers'
participation. As experienced elsewhere in Benin, farmers do not accord
high priority to rice and have a low input/low risk approach. The
introduction of water control structures through bunding etc. interfered
with seasonal activities, but the farmers made no adjustments to their
cropping systems to accommodate the additional work. As a consequence,
they never became committed to higher technology rice production. Results
might have been different if it had been possible to demonstrate that the
benefits of the new technology would have compensated farmers for the ixtra
work. The project should have tested various cropping patterns in order to
discover those acceptable to the farmers.
17.      At the time of project preparation and appraisal, it was intended
that the GRVC type of cooperative - which recognized individual ownership
of land and equipment but promoted block and collective cultivation - would
become the main vehicle for project impact. Throughout the project there
was no insistence on collective activity as a condition for participating
in the project, and individual farmers received assistance in the same
manner as groups. At the end of the project, there were only 167 GRVCs
versus 500 estimated at appraisal. However, the existing GRVCs have put
into cultivation larger than expected parcels of land (11,000 ha versus the
appraisal estimate of 10,000 ha). As an alternative to the GRVCs, more
informal farmer groupings, the GVs, essentially formed to handle the
primary collection of cotton and where farmers cooperated to perform



-5-
services rather than to produce collectively. The arrangements proved
partlcularly successful and numbers increased from 350 to 418.
18.      BLoki.  At appraisal the principal risk was identified as being
that poor organization and management would lead to underperformance. In
order to minimize this risk, assurancea were obtained from Government that
key project posts would be filled with persons of experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA and that staff turnover should be
minimized. While the initial Project Manager was acceptable, be was not
formally replaced for some time after his removal in 1982 and his Deputy
was considered inexperienced although, when he was eventually confirmed as
Project Manager in 1984, the Bank appeara to have raised no objection.
only one senior member of the staff and the Director of the M&E Unit
remained in place throughout the project, while there was a major upheaval
of lower level staff at the time of CARDER reorganization in 1985. The
movemento of personnel do not appear to have unduly affected project
performance. The other safeguard against the risk of poor management was
the technical assistance team whose generally satisfactory performance has
been discussed above (para 9).
19.      Financial management was recognized as the most significant risk.
So that the project could start with a financially clean slate, annulment
of debte incurred by SONAGRI and the CARDER-Borgou, was a condition of
Board presentation. Furthermore, the TA team had a strong financial
contingent. Nonetheless, this prcved to be the weakest side of project
management and remained of continuing concern. As indicated in the review
of the Statua of Covenants (Part III, 7), delays in preparation of accounts
did not permit the appointment of independent auditors until 1985, while
even in 1987, the accounting system was not considered entirely reliable.
20.      One risk not foreseen at appraisal was the difficulties that the
Government would experience in providing the agreed counterpart funding.
Problems began in 1984 and continued until the end of the project. It had
been recognized at the outset that financial flows in the cotton subsector
were distorted to ths extent that the barOm did not reflect real costs,
and agreement was obtained at negotiations on guidelines and a timetable
for amending the barOme. Although a revised version was introduced a year
behind schedule in 1982/83, it was not subsequently adjusted to reflect
changirg costs until further reorganization of the subsector took place
towards the end of the project. Another agreement not respected in full,
was the one to reduce the Government's fertilizer and insecticide subsidy
provided to farmers; the rate of reduction of the subsidy was slower than
envisaged at appraisal, with elimination of the subsidy coming only in
1988/89.
F. Prgiect Results
21.      The project's objectives of improving rural incomes and expanding
exports were predicated on increased production of cotton and foodcrops.
In fact, the project surpassed all the production targets (Part III, 6).
Even by PY4, i:he mid-point in project implementation, incremental
production wao above target for all crops except groundnut. and rice. In
addition some significant increases in yam and caosava production had also
been observed. Sy the end of project implementation (PY 8), the project
had reached over 40,400 beneficiaries, compared with 39,000 estimated at
appraisal, and total production for the various crops exceeded targets at
full development by the following proportions: cotton 163%, maize 56%,
sorghum 26%, groundnutu 33%, and cowpeas 34%. Although for cotton, yield
was higher than appraisal estimates and for maize, equivalent, the major
explanatory factor for the increases in production of the other foodcrops
war area expansion, as average yields remained seriously below appraisal
estimates. This is substantiated by the fact that production of improved
seeds surpassed targets for cotton and maize but was significantly lower
for other foodcropo (Part III, 4).



22.      Producers' cash flows are also estimated to have increased beyond
levels foreseen at appraisal. Comparison of an enterprise with animal
traction shows net cash income in PY8 to be over double that estimated at
appraisal for PYS in North Borgou and over 50% the amount estimated in
South Borgou. The number of houses with tin rather than straw roofs has
reportedly increased Lignificantly. Cotton producers also benefitted from
the "ristournes", which totalled over CFAF 3,200 million (approximately USS
10.7 million) over the period of project implementation, and were used by
the GVs to carry out developments (classrooms, dispensaries, stores) for
the benefit of their communities.
23.      In the absence of information on the evolution of taxation over
the period of project implementation, a precise lndication of Government's
cash flow cannot be provided. The cash flow of the cotton subsector, after
being positive until 1984/85 turned negative, and became positive again
only in 1989/90, at the end of the project. This is partly due to the low
prices for exports received between 1985/86 and 1988/89. However, revenues
from the cotton sub-sector through the barAme supported most of the
operating expenses of the four CARDERs in the cotton-producing provincee in
the absence of Government counterpart funding (para 20). Although Project
coats were only 95% of appraisal estimates (including the Supplementary
Credit) in SDR terms, because of the appreciation of the dollar to the
CFAF, they were about 60% in excess in CFAF terms and were also stretched
over a longer period than envisaged. In the foreseeable future, the cash
flow of the cotton subsector is expected to remain positive and operating
costs, such as salaries, are not expected to increase significantly.
However, some of these benefits must be attributed to other activities,
such as the Second Borgou Rural Development Project.
24.      The project's ERR (Part III, 6B) was estimated at the time of
appraisal to be 21%. When the Supplementary Credit was financed in 1986,
it was recalculated at over 50%. The analysis for this report gives a rate
of 35%. The increase over the appraisal estimate can be mainly attributed
to the substantial increases in production over appraisal targets, which
more than compensated for lower international prices of cotton in some
years, and to the improvement in quality of cotton exports. The lower rate
in comparison with the one at the time of the Supplementary Credit is due
to the fact that by PYS, cotton production had risen to about 69,000 tons,
of which 60,000 were incremental, compared with the peak of 80,000 tons
that was obtained in 1986/87 and used in the ERR estimate of the
Supplementaiy Credit. The higher rate of 35% in this report in comparison
with 18% estimated by the borrower in its PCR, is mainly due to the
assumptions used. In the Borrower's estimate, actual producer prices from
1982/83 to 1989/90 were used (ranging from CFAF 60 to CFAF 110/kg for
cotton for example), also the borrower includes subsidies on fertilizer as
costs in addition to project cost estimates, and the actual amounts paid by
farmers. Part III prices are derived from the World Bank commodity price
projections for inputs and outputs. Another reason is that the Borrower
did not convert historical costs and benefits into constant terms.
25.      As cotton is a major source of foreign exchange for the country,
the increases in production and the improvement in quality of exports have
certainly contributed to macro-economic growth objectives. Benin has been
traditionally self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs, but the increases in
production under this project have enabled more supplies of maize to be
channelled to the deficit South of the country and improved national food
security. While farmers' incomes have increased, there is no evidence of
any reallocation of income or alleviation of poverty among vulnerable
groups. The project was not designed with this end in mind nor was any
particular attention paid to women and no data have been collected on these
matters. No specific attention was given to environmental matters either
and, in view of the possible detrimental effect of sustained cotton
production on the soil, as well as the destruction of the vegetative cover
as cultivated areas have been extended, this is an area which merits
investigation. The report on research (para 15) and the evidence of the



uptake of animal traction (para 13) illustrate the technological impact of
the project. With respect to institutions, SONAPRA and especially CARDER-
Borgou were considerably strengthened by the attention received under the
projoct.
0. kro1ect Sustainabilitv
26.      In view of the existence of a follow-on project, the
sustainability of benefits is not an immediate issue. In the future, there
is likei-. to be a growing role for farmers, associatione and the private
sector and a corresponding diminution of that of public sector institutions
like the CARDER and SONAPRA. In addition, the recently approved
Agricultural Services Restructuring Pro4act will streamline CARDER
activi*ies with a view to reducing operating costa. This should help to
alleviate the ever-present problem of shortage of Government resources
while at the same time ensuring provision of services to farmers.
H. Bank's Performance
27.      The staff of the Bank's regional office in Abidjan were
conscientious in supervising preparation carried out under the Technical
Assistance Project. At the time of appraisal and subsequent negotiations,
much care was taken to try and resolve any issues (particularly financial
ones, para 19) which might have impeded the operations of the project.
Supervision was carried out on a regular basis twice a year. In the early
year., most attention was given to production aspects and it might have
been beneficial to have had more intensive supervision of financial matters
at that stage, since the accounting staff were obviously having trouble in
bringing financial records up-to-date. The poor performance of most of the
components unrelated to cotton or maize suggests that more attention should
have been focussed on these aspects by supervision missions.
28.      The main strength of the Bank's performance with respect to this
project has been its close supervision, which enabled it to respond to
problems such as the need for extra ginning capacity. Yet, despite this
regular contact, once the project was underway, the Bank was unable to
influence organizational changes. It did not oppose the standard CARDER
organigram, introduced in 1985, which was obviously unsustainable and
contrary to the Bank's avowed objective of simplifying the structure of
CARDER-Borgou. The Bank was also not in favor of the CARDERs having
responsibility for cotton ginning, an issue not resolved until during
negotiations of the follow-up project. The situation with respect to
institutional matters suggests that there is a need for greater dialogue
with Government on broader policy issues to ensure a propitious environment
for individual projects.
I. Borrower's Performance
29.      Preparation of this project was only initiated because the
Borrower improved the policy environment for rural development projects.
Although participation in preparation of officials outside the Technical
Assistance Project team may have been minimal, there was widespread
familiarity with the objectives and components of the project by the time
it came to be appraised. The Borrower promptly met conditions of credit
effectiveness except for the need to provide the legal opinion, which
delayed effectiveness by seven months. Once the project was underway, the
Borrower's terdency to reorganize its institutions in the sector
contributed to management problems and did not facilitate smooth
operations. As indicated in para 18, project personnel was not always
entirely satisfactory. A further problem was the transfer of some of the
staff who had been trained, such as the counterpart to the Input Supply and
Credit Specialist. In the early years of the project, there were some
problems related to procurement of inputs. At a later stage, the issue of
counterpart funding became preeminent.



30.     The main lesson for the Borrower is the importance of creating an
environment favorable to achievement of objectives. In this case, the
maintenance of an incentive cotton price and the provision of a oound input
supply and marketing structure ensured the positive response of farmers.
%t the sam time, strict control needs to be maintained over the costs of
creating the necessary environment and a more consistent approach adopted
towards public sector institutions.
J. prolect Relationshii-
31.     The strength of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
with respect to this project lay in the good relations between supervision
staff and project management, w,hich permitted a fairly prompt response to
issuea as they arose.
32.     Relationships between the Bank and other cofinancers:  IFAD for
Cr. 1127-BEN and CCCE for Cr. 1127-1-BEN, appear to have been good. IFAD
staff participated in a few supervision missions and provided advice with
respect to the monitoring and evaluation component, but otherwise their
professional input was minimal. CCCE has been closely monitoring the
performance of the cotton subsector together with the Bank.
33.     There appears to have been no relationship between the Government
and IFAD apart from the financial one of Borrower and Funding Agency. The
relationshtip between the Borrower and the CCCE with respect to this project
has been cloue since the CCCE participated in the preparation and appraisal
of the follow-up project.
K. Consulting Services
34.      The performance of the large technical assistance team provided
under the project is discussed in para 9. One implication of the
involvement of such a substantial team, together with the inadequate
training carried out and the movement of local staff, is that the
sustainability of project activities could be expected to be low. On the
other hand, it is doubtful whether the complicated financial situation
would not have further deteriorated without such an intensive input of
financial expertise both from the long-term TA staff and occasional
consultants.
35.      Contractors performed abysmally.  In the cases of both the offices
for CARDER Headquarters and the Training Centre at INA, the original
contractor went out of business. The Government's Rural Engineering
Division completed the work on the CARDER HQ, which was finished 5 years
behind schedule, while the Training Centre was still unfinished wher. the
project ended.  The Seed Treatment Plant, mentioned in the App.aisal Report
as sufficient to handle 600t, was apparently constructed with a capacity of
6,000 to 7,000t and, becauee oi. technical problems, had still not begun
functioning by the end of the project. Given improved seed production,
excluding cotton, of only 193t by the end of the project (Part III, 4),
even a 600t plant would have been excessive. The performance of contractors
under the project suggests the need for tighter control on the part of the
Bank and Project Management both of the process whereby contractors are
appointed and of the execution of their assignments. Given the weakness of
the CARDER's Rural Engineering Division, which was not in a position to
adequately supervise construction works, a heavier engineering input on
supervision miesions might have been desirable (only one mission included
an engineer).
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
36.      The legal agreements for this project were comprehensive.  The
problem in ouch cases is the lack of prioritization among the provisions
coupled with the absence of intermediate sanctions. For example, it was
clearly not warranted to stop disbursement because cost recovery on seeds



-9-
was not instituted by December 31, 1983. This provision appears t3 have
been simply ignored by Bank staff, others, such as reduction of input
subsidies, were subject to exhortation but no financial pressure. There is
a need to make certain provisions more flexible so as to allow for
extenuating circumstances and to give thought to development of
intermediate oanctions for non-compliance with suboidiary provisions.
37.      Most project components, with the possible exception of the
development of the farmers' cooperative movement, were implemented along
the lines indicated in the Appraisal Report, suggesting that it did provide
a useful framework for both the Borrower and the Bank during
implementation.
38.      Most data relevant to the preparatioa of the PCR were available
either from the Division or the Africa Information Services Center. A
major exception was the Audit Reports, only the one for the final year was
available at Bank Headquarters. Some of the information included in Parts
I and III of the PCR has been drawn from the PCR prepared by the Borrower.



BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(credits 1127-BEN and 1127-1-BENl
PART II l/:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Overall, the Borgou project was successful in the context of the
cotton boom. Thanks to this project, a market economy replaced one based
on subsistence production. The impact of the project was basically
positive despite some shortcomings.
A.  POSITIVE ASPECTS
2.       These include:
a) the massive participation of farmers in the project, which
amounted to 80% of holdings by the end of the project;
b) the enthusiasm of farmers for cotton production favored by the
Government's policy of incentive prices for cotton production in
the first six years of the project, with the consequent increased
use of inputs;
c) the improvement in farmers' incomes owing to the significant
increase in crop production, notably cotton, with the corollary of
food self-sufficiency and the opening up of the rural economy to
market forces;
d) raising the technical level of extension staff through various
types of training exercises, which brought about an improvement in
extension work with farmers;
e) farmers' associations taking charge of input supply and primary
marketing;
f) the encouraging results of Agricultural Research, notably the
introduction of new high yielding varieties .of cotton and maize;
9) the eupansion of animal traction; and
h) the improvement in financial management.
B.  SHORTCOMINGS
3.       These include:
a) the absence of improved varieties of sorghum to provide to
farmers;
1/ The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the CARDER-Borgou prepared the
PCR along the lines of the old format. The PCR contains no direct
evaluation of performance by the Bank, the Borrower or co-financiers or
of the effectiveness of their relationships. Part II therefore contains
the main conclusions with respect to the project as presented in the
Borrower's PCR.



- 12 -
b) the inappropriateness of the technical packages proposed for food
crop. with respect to the cropping systems uued by farmers
including their practice of mixed-stand cropping;
c) the failure to apply the recommended doses of inputs on certain
crops;
d) the persistence of itinerant cultivation (slash and burn) with the
resulting deterioration of the environment, which is becoming of
increasing concern particularly in the district of Banikoara where
cotton is the most widely cultivated in the province;
e) use of only a limited range of animal traction equipment, thereby
restricting operations to ploughing and earthling up;
f) the failure of the bottom-lands development program; the few that
were developed are mostly under-utilized;
g) the insufficient number ot drinking wells provided;
h) the lack of outlets for food crops which translates into low
prices for producers; and
i) the mobility of personnel; of all the senior personnel, the only
one who remains at the CARDER-Borgou is the Director of the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
4.       Many leasons have been drawn from the experience acquired and the
errors committed in the course of project implementation. These lessons
correctly point to the fact that it would be preferable, in designing
future programs, to incorporate what has been learned and avoid proposing
solutions derived without the active participation of project
beneficiaries.
5.      The underlying causes of the shortcomings experienced in carrying
out the project are (i) human - farmers, reticence to accept innovations,
the inadequate performance of certain extension agents etc.; (ii)
material - delayed purchasing of equipment, lack of improved varieties of
certain crops...etc.; (iii) structural - cumbersome administrative
procedures;.and (iv) financial - the fact that Benin Government counterpart
funds were not released.
6.       The strengths of the project are numerous and point to the overall
positive impact which has been highly beneficial to the people involved.
They also account for the economic rate of return which is quite acceptable
in the light of previous estimates. (The economic rate of return estimated
in the Borrower's PCR came to 18%. The explanation for the difference
between this estimate and the one in Part III of this PCR lies mainly in
the assumptions used for cotton prices from PY9 to PY20. In the Borrower's
estimate actual producer prices in 1989/90 were used (CFAF 104.25/kg),
while Part III prices are derived from World Bank commodity price
projections (an average of CFAF 133.50/kg over the period. Another reason
is that the Borrower did not convert historical costs and benefits into
constant terms.)
7.       On the basis of everything that has already been said, we can
conclude that the Borgou Province Rural Development Project (Phase I) has
brought about a rise in the standard of living of the population, has
helped to slow down the rural exodus from our countryside and has had
numerous side effects thoroughly appreciated at all levels of society in
the Borgou Province.
8.       In short, one can take heart again and conclude that the failures
and gropings of eight years of project implementation have not been in
vain: they have permitted the identification of a good number of conditions



which today seem indispensable to helping farmero succeed in improving
their productivity and their living conditions.
9.       In such a context it is easy to understand the motivation behind
the hopes of the population of Borgou to see the continuation (in a second
phase) of the consolidation, expansion and intensification of the gains
made under this Rural Development Project.
10.      We would therefore like to thank all the funding agencies for
their unconditional support, as well as all the institutions and
individuals who, from near or far, have contributed to the execution of
this Project.



- 15
BENIN
BORCOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ICredits 1127-BEN and 1127-1-BENI
PART imia STATISTICAL DATA
1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Year of
Title          IumSa                   A&nooval  status      Commen=
Cr. 307-BEN    To stimulate            1972      Cancelled   Disappointing
Zou-Borgou     production of                                 performance
Cotton         cotton.                                       mainly due to
Project                                                      institutional
problems.
Cr. 716-BEN    To strengthen           1977      Completed   Inter alia
Technical      SONAGRI and CARDER                            responsible for
Assistance     and prepare ag.                               preparing
Project        investment projects.                          present proj.
Cr. 1877-BEN   Consolidating gains    1988       Underway
Second         of first project,
Borgou         preparlng medium-term
Rural Dev.     program for rural
Project        sector, reorganizing
cotton sub-sector.
No-tQgs
Cr. 307-BEN was reviewed in a Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2034,
April, 1980) which pointed out that the uneconomic competition between
cotton and maize had reduced incentives to produce cotton, the weakened
administration of the project had resulted in a deterioration of services
to farmers and that changes in government institutions had nullified
institutLonal experience. Both cotton and food production (except for
groundnuts) were below appraisal targets. Positive aspects included: a
measurable increase in the use of animal traction, acceptance by farmers of
improved techniques in maize and cotton production Pnd pest control
measures for cotton, and the activity of village groups.



- 16 -
2. EROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                 Date
Item                             Planned              Agtual
Identification                       9/78                10/78
Preparation                         1979                 1979/80
Appraisal Mission                    5/80                 5/80
Credit Negotiations                  1/81                 1/8.1
Board Approval                       3/81                 4/81
Credit Signature                     4/81                 4/81
Credit Effectiveness                 8/81                 3/82
Project Completion                   6/85                12/88
Credit Closing                      12/85                12188
cr. 1127-1-BEN
Credit Negotiations                  2/86                 2/86
Board Approval                       3/86                 4/86
Credit Signature                     4/86                 5/86
Credit Effectiveness                 6/86                 2/87
Project Completion                   6/88                12/88
Credit Closing                      12/88                12/88



- 1.7 -
3.  CREDIT DISBURSEMNTS
CumulAtive Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Bank ?isnal Year         Appraisal                      Actual/
Estimate       Actual         Appraisal
(USS 000)     (Us$ 000)
Credit 1127-BEN
1982                  2300          1106             '3
1983                  6800          3142            46
1984                 12300           5857           48
1985                 17400          8241            47
1986                 20000         10663            53
1987                               13195            66
1988                                14652           73
1989                               16667            83
1990                               17734            89
Date of Final Disbursement: 10/23/89
Amount cancelled: SDR 144,485.77
C=redit 1127-1-BEN
1987                   n.a.           1292
1988                                  1617
1989                                  2148
1990                                  2364
Date of Final Disbursement: 07/19/89
Fully disbursed.



4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTAT ION
Appraisal
IndicatM          Ratimate IPY41  Actual  PY^81              Comments
Cooaerative Move-ment
Additional Groups
GRVC                Soo             167        Intended to be main vehicle
for project impact.
GV                  -              418        Increase of 68 over project
period.
Water Dyeelounent
Bottomland dev.(ha)          500             100        Not popular with farmers.
Rehab. wells                 100             100        Achieved PY5.
New wells                     30              3C        Achieved PY6.
Improved Seed (t)                         Seed Farm              Outgrowere
Cotton                     830               38                2698
Maize                      100              107                  16
Sorghum                     85               -                   -
Groundnuts                 211               39                  20
Cowpeas                     50               11                  -
Fertilizer (t)               6600            9733       Consumption of fertilizer
peaked in PY5 at over 12,500t
Insecticides (1)            500000          380000     Estimate for PY8.
Consumption of insecticides
peaked at almost 1 million
litres in PY6.
Ploughs                      10000          27065       Total number of animal
traction equipment owners in
Province.
Cone&ruct$on              Completion
Date
Planned         Actual
CARDER HQ                    1982            1987       Original enterprise failed,
work completed by Dir. Nat.
G6nie Rurale.
INA Training Centre          1982            1990       Unfinished at project
completion.



- 19 -
5.  Proiect Co-tstend financino
A. Proiect Costs
(SDR million)
Actual/ Actual/
Expenditure Category Appraisal Realloc. Actual Appraisal Realloc.
Estimate  Amounts                %         %
1.  InsQcticideo, fert-        4.10      5.16     5.19      127       101
ilizers etc.
2.  Civil works &              2.64      2.33     2.11       80        91
buildings.
3.  Equipment.                 1.60      1.38     1 *         73       85
4. Vehicles:
(a) for parta A, B, C,    1.85      1.26      1.28       69       101
D & E of Project.
(b) for part F of the      0.95     0.85     0.86        91       102
Project.
5. Local personnel &
other operating costs:
(a) for parts A, B, C,   11.94    12.56    11.53         97       92
D & E of Project.
(b) : r part F of the      1.18     0.11     0.13        11      113
oject.
6.  %;nsultantsl services      4.10      6.11     5.68      139        93
studies & scholarships.
7.  Refunding of advances.    0.50      0.54      0.54      108       100
8. Ginning & transport
equipment for part H        -       2.79      3.03        -       109
of the Project.
9.  Unallocated.               2.70      0.00     0.00         0        0
Other (CCCE)                9.70     9.70      -         100
7                          _           _-
TOTAL                     31.56    42.79    41.22       131        96
Comnentzs
- Costs cover both Cr. 1127-BEN and Cr. 1127-1-BEN and include project
financing by the Government and CCCE as w611 as by IDA and IFAD.
- Actual costs only available according to expenditure categories, so the same
breakdown has been used to compare these with appraisal estimates and amounts
reallocated following Cr. 1127-1-BEN in 1986.
- At appraisal 50% of costs were foreign exchange, although the breakdown is
not available for all categories of actual costs, the data that exist suggest
a similar proportion of actual expenditure in foreign exchange.



- 20 -
S. Prolaet Finanging
(SDR Million Equivalent)
INiil Alloabn    Reied Credkt  Reed Amounts   Actual
Crdi 1127-SEN       PDA   FAD  GOB  IDA  FAD GOB VA  IFAD 006  MA  FA   008
1. hnsetlcds,
fttre, ete.        2.40 1.70 0.00  2.96 2.14 0.00  3.02 2.14 0.00  3.04 2.15 0.00
2. CM Wo*s
& Buldlig          1.10 0.80 0.74  1.10 0.80 0.74  0.97 0.70 0.66  0.68  0.0  0.69
3. Fquipmnt          0.60 0.55 0.45  0.81 0.57 0.44  0.59 0.40 0.39  0.51 0.37 0.29
4. Vels..:
1la for Past A.
SAC,MhE of Prect    1.10 0.7S 0.00  0.37 1.20 0.00  0.76 0.60 0.00  0.74 0.53 0.00
fbl for Pat F
of the Proct        0.66 0.40 0.00  0.60 0.40 0.00  0.50 0.35 0.00  0.49 0.37 0.00
S. Lal Peronnu
& Otw Op.. Cat:
la) for Parts A.
I.C.D&E of Poet     5.00 3.60 3.34  3.87 2.69 2.51  4.72 4.33 3.52  4.90 3.55 3.06
(bl for Puat F
of the Project      O.50 0.35 0.33  0.03 0.03 0.02  0.06 0.03 0.03  0.00 0.04 0.03
. Constat
S8vias Studies
& soholarsN         2.35 1.75 0.00  1.96 2.93 0.00  3.56 2.55 0.00  3.18 2.50 0.00
7. efeundbg of Advanss  0.50 0.00 0.00  0.54 0.00 0.00  0.54 0.00 0.00  0.54 0.00 0.00
8. Guinnon & Tranp.
EquWpent for Part 11
of the Poject               -        3.40 0.00 0.00  0.99 0.00 0.00  1.23 0.00 0.00
9. Unlcaed             1.60 1:10 0.00  0.38 0.34 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL               16.70 11.00 4.88 15.70 11.00 3.73 15.70 11.00 4.69 16.56 10.17 399
cAmm.f
Credi nvsed at tme of flnanchg of Cr. 1127-1-BEN In 1986, aounte wubnp^tny rdeaad *c lndlotsd
In following oklwnn.
Cred 1127-14SEN
Pioposd        Actul
Epenltums Calteoy    VA  CCCE      OA  CCCE
8. OIning Equpren    1.60  0.00    1.60  0.00
Oth               0.00  9.70     0.00  9.70
TOTAL             1.80  9.70     1.80  9.70
items fanced by CCCE Includ: ch work., pon stwoa  nd othe *4upmefnt



21 -
6. Proiect Results
A.  Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate  Actual        Actual/   Actual/
Indicators                 PY4       PY7      PYs            PY4       PY7
8         t
Beneficiaries             39000    39000    40483            104        104
output (000t)
Seedcotton                19.78    26.57    69.93            354       263
Maize                     19.38    32.52    50.76            262        156
Sorghum                   27.51    41.17    51.76            188        126
Groundnuts                 6.32      9.67    12.82           203        133
Cowpeas                    3.55      5.64     7.58           214        134
Rice                       3.70      3.70     1.96            53         53
ar  (000 ha)
Seedcotton                21.73    23.10    53.00            244        229
Maize                     20.69    21.47    33.44            162        156
Sorghum                   35.38    35.94    70.27            199        196
Groundnuts                 8.58      8.96    14.73           172        164
Cowpeas                    8.29      8.53    16.66           201        195
Rice                       2.00      2.00     1.65            83         83
Yield (kg/ha)
Seedcotton                  910      1150     1319           145        115
Maize                       937      1515     1518           162        100
Sorghum                     778      1146      737            95         64
Groundnuts                  737      1079      870           118         81
Cowpeas                     428       661      455           106         69
Rice                       1850      1850     1188            64         64
Act. PY4/5 Act. PY8/
Producer Cash Flows            Actual                   Appraisal   Appraisal
(CFAF 000, Current Terms)                                  PY4t5 .P4/5PY5
Net Cash Income *
North Borgou
Without Project              115       -               -
With Project                 95       121       -            127         -
With + Animal Traction      224       498      468           222        209
South Borgou
Without Project              25        -        -             -          -
With Project                124       278       -            224         -
With + Animal Traction      286       326      437           114        153
*  As reported by Project's M&E Unit.  The first "With Project" figure is
for PY4, while the "With + Animal Traction" figure is for PY5.



- 22 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal         Actual
Appraisal         Supplementary   (At Final
Estimate         Credit            Develooment)
Economic
gate of Return              21%              Over 50%            35%
Underlyina hAsumotions
1.  Avoraisal
Only the project's directly quantifiable, incremental benefits taken
into account. All project costs except those of SONAGRI marketing,
and research components, together with technical assistance associated
with these components were included. Prices were converted to
constant 1980 prices. Project activities assumed to be maintained at
PY4 levels from PY5 onwards, although maximum physical benefits not
achieved until PY7, after which assumed constant. Project life of 20
years. Incremental crop output valued at farmgate prices estimated
using world market prices as a basis. Incremental farm labor
requirements included as an economic cost and valued at CFAF 230/man-
day.
2.  Suoplementarv Credit
Same methodology as in original appraisal. Cost stream included
actual investment and operating costs over the period 1981-85, the
costs of the proposed investments in the ginneries, port storage
capacity and trucks and project operating expenditure for the
remainder of the life of the project. Benefit stream computed holding
the output of foodcrops constant at actual 1985 levels while cotton
production assumed to grow to about 80,000 tons. For cotton, output
valued using economic farmgate prices derived from Bank forecasts.
Prices converted to constant 1986 basis.
3.  Final Develooment
All project costs taken into account as data did not permit
identification and exclusion of SONAPRA marketing, research components
and associated technical assistance. Cost stream includes actual
investment and operating costs over the period 1981-89 and project
operating expenditure for the remainder of the life of the project.
Benefit stream computed holding outpat constant at actual 1989 levels.
Output and fertilizer from 1990 onwards valued using economic farmgate
prices derived from Bank forecasts with exchange rates of US$ 1 - CFAF
2/3 for 1990 and USS 1 = CFAF 250 for 1991 onwards. Incremental labor
requirements valued at CFAF 450/man-day. Other farm costs valued at
CFAF 20,000/ha. Prices converted to constant 1990 basis.
Commentet
The high rate of return achieved reflects the positive impact of the
project on production, particularly of cotton. Actual foodcrop production
up to PYS was included in the final analysis as it was considered that
continued financing of the CARDER, animal traction equipment and seeds
contributed to the increase in production. If foodcrop production is
maintained at the level of 1985, the ERR drops to 24%.



- 23 -
C.  Studio&a
Puryose an Defined at    comments
Studfl                   Aoorainal
Bottomland               To assess the physical   No major study appears
development.              development and          to have been
cultivation potential    undertaken. Bottomland
of 2,400 ha of           development began only
bottomland in Borgou      in 1982 because of
and to prepare, by       initial difficulties
December 1981, a         in recruiting a
program for developing   surveyor and a
about 500 ha.            draftsman. Although
program established,
bottomland development
did not find favor
with farmers, with the
result that only 100
of the 500 ha planned
were developed.
Preparation of a         To be undertaken in       Prepared in 1985 by
possible follow-up        PY3.                     the FAO/World Bank
project.                                           Cooperative Programme
in collaboration with
officials from MDRAC
and CARDER Borgou.



- 24 
7. Status of Covenante 2/
section/Covenant                         Statue of Compliance
4.01     Borrower to cause               Following abolition of SONAGRI in
CARDER-Borgou to carry          1982 and replacement by SONAPRA,
out parts A, B (ii) and         division of responsibilities
G of the Project and,           inadequately defined, although
together with SONAGRI,          CARDER eventually took over
Part B (i) ... and              ginneries, formerly a SONAGRI
SONAGRI to carry out            responeibility.  Assumption of
Part F and, together            these liabilities aggravated
with CARDER-Borgou, Part        CARDER's financial problems.
ti) .
Borrower to provide the         Funds not provided promptly (para
fund., facilities,              4.02), complaints in 1983 that
services and other             ginneries not maintained.
resources required for
carrying out the
project.
4.02     Borrower to ensure              Funds considerably delayed in
availability to SONAGRI         1982 and 1983, but situation
by October 31 of each           improved subsequently.
year of the funds
necessary for the
purchase of inputs.
To cover local costs,           Although complied with initially,
Borrower to make                reports from early 1984 indicate
deposits into Advance           that funds were not readily
Account in name of              available to CARDER.  The problem
CARDER-Borgou at CAA,           grew steadily worse from 1985
the amount of such              until the end of the project,
deposits to be                  reflecting a shortage of
sufficient to meet              counterpart funds.
Project expenditures for
immediately following
quarterly period.
4.03     Borrower to nominate a          Initial appointees satisfactory
Project Manager and             but Project Manager detained in
Deputy responsible for          1982 and replaced by Assistant
administration and             who was considered inexperienced,
finance whose                  but continued to act until
qualifications and              formally appointed Project
experience should be at         Manager in 1984.  Replaced in
all times satisfactory          1987.
to the Association.
5.01     Borrower shall cause            Financial situation of CARDER-
CARDER-Borgou and               Borgou as of June 30, 1981 only
SONAGRI to maintain             established in December 1983.
records adequate to             Accounts brought almost up to
reflect in accordance           date by mid-1985 for both CARDER
with consistently               and SONAPRA but even in 1987,
maintained appropriate          accounting system not considered
accounting practices the        entirely reliable, shortcomings
2/ Only those Covenants where compliance was not satisfactory are
covered.



- 25 -
operationo and financial        with respect to internal control
condition of CARDER-            procedures.
Borgou and SONAGRI.
Borrower shall cause            Due to delays in preparation of
CARDER-Borgou and               financial statements, independent
SONAGRI to (i) have             auditors were not recruited until
their accounts and              1985 and work on audit of
financial statements for       accounts up to end-1984 was only
each fiscal year                completed by April 1986.  Despite
audited, in accordance          some improvements, delays
with appropriate                continued with the 1986 audit of
auditing principles             CARDER-Borgou being received in
consistently applied, by       August 1987.
independent auditors
acceptable to the
Association; (ii)
furnish to the
Association as soon as
available, but in any
case not later than four
months after the end of
each such year, (A)
certified copies of its
financial statements for
such year as so audited
and (B) the report of
such audit by said
auditors.
5.04     To ensure adequate              Satisfactory compliance in the
cotton production               early years of the project but no
incentives the Borrower         consultation with the Association
shall, by March 31 for          in 1984 when price wae not
each year of the                altered from previous year.
Project, set the minimum        Subsequent supervision missions
price for seed cotton to        did not report on this issue.
be paid to producers on
delivery in accordance
with criteria
satisfactory to the
Borrower and the
Association.
To recover an adequate          Although input prices were
portion of its costs for        raised, the rate of increase was
the support of cotton           substantially below that foreseen
production the Borrower         by the Project, as a result the
shall: (i) progressively        Government subsidy remained
raise the price charged         higher than expected.  Interest
to farmers for                  rates reported to vary
fertilizers and                 considerably according to nature
insecticides to levels          of item financed.  No distinction
satisfactory to the             made in prices of goods provided
Borrower and the                on credit or for cash until
Association; and (Li)           1987/88.  Interest rate criteria
(A) for the 1981/82            satisfactory to IDA do not appear
cotton campaign, charge         to have been established in the
interest at the rate of         course of the project.
at least 11% per annum
for seasonal and medium
term credit to cotton
growers and (B) for
subsequent campaigns,
adjust such interest



-26-
rate in accordance with
criterla satisfactory to
the Borrower and IDA.
To ensure that costs in        Introduced for 1982/83 campalgn
tho cotton sector are          but not subsequently adjusted to
properly reflected the         reflect changing costs.
Borrower shall introduce
for the 1981/82 cotton
campaign a revised
cotton bar#me,
satisfactory to the
Borrower and IDA.
5.05     The Borrower shall, by         No information available.  This
December 31, 1983, take        suggests that there was no
all actlon necessary to        attempt at cost recovery.  In
cause farmers in the           viow of inadequacy of accounting
Borgou province to pay         system, it is doubtful whether
for improved seed for          costs could even have been
foodcrops furnLshed to         established, let alone covered by
them, such payment to be       sales.
sufficient to cover the
Borrower's costs in
producing and
dietrLbuting such seed.



- 27 -
B.  Misign
Month/     No. of       Days        Perform. Type of
Mission               Year,       Persona     in Fil[ d   Status   Probleme
Through Appraisal
Preidentification      7/78       1            4             -          -
Identification        10/78      2(A,E)       14             -          _
Prep. Reviews          1979       Several     Several        -          -
Appraisal              5/80       5           n.a.           -          -
Supervision
1.                     6/81       1(A)         9             1          _
2.                     9/81       2(A,A)      11             1          _
3.                     2/82      2(A,F)        9             2          F
4.                    12/82       3(A,E,N)    10             2        F,M
5.                     6/83      2(A,M)       12             2       F,T
6.                    12/83       3(A,L,E)    20             2        F,T
7.                     6/84       7(A,L,E,    20             2       T,O
A,F,M,T)
8.                    11/84       2(A,F)      18             2        F,O
9.                     6/85       1(A)        17             2        T,F
10.                   12/85      2(E,F)       13             2       T,M
11.                    3/86      3(E,F,A)    22              2         M
12.                   10/86       1(F)        10             2       F,M
13.                    4/87      2(A,F)       12             2       F,M
14.                   10/87      2(A,F)       15             2       F,M
15.                    4/88      4(A,A,F,F)   9              2       F,M
16.                   11/88      2(A,F)        5             2       F,M
Notecs
Preparation was carried out by SONAGRI's Bureau d'Etudes under the
Technical Assistance Credit (716-BEN) and several short-term visits were
made by staff from the Abidjan office during 1979 to supervise and review
progress.
From mid-1983, Supervision Missions of this project usually also supervised
Zou and Atacora Projects at the same time.
Key to Expertise:
A - Agriculturalist, F = Financial Analyst, E = Economist,
N - Engineer, T - Training Specialist, M - Monitoring and
Evaluation specialist, L = Livedtock Specialist.
Key to Performance Status:
I - Problem free or minor problems
2 - Moderate problems.
Key to Type of Problemst
F - Financial, M - Managerial, T - Technical, 0 - other



- 28 -
8. IUse of Bank Resources
A.  S
TO
TASl                         FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91                  TOTAL
Preparation                            39.0    30.4                 --        -         -                --                -                                  69.4
Appraft                                   --    32.4    35.2         -                                                                                 -       67.6
N.gotfatfOa/Board                         -1 t3.1                             --                                                                               13.1
Loan Proessing (LOP)                     0.5      4.5    13.1       0.7       --                    --       --                 - -          --                18.8
....        ....    ....      ..... ....        ....    ..... ....    ..... ....    ..... ....    .....  ..-.... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
S.i-total                           39.5    67.3    61.4        0.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      168.9
Supervision                                       5* 5.2    18.8    15.5    16.2    14.4    18.9                 8.9    10.5    10.7         --               119.1
Project Adinistration  (PAD)                                        0.1              0.2      0.4       0.3      1.0       --       --       --       --        2.0
Project Coapletlon Report                 --       --           -        --   -            -     -       --       --       --       --     5.9      4.0         9.9
... ... ....    ..... ....    ....              ..... ....        .... ... ..... ....        ..... ....        ..... .... .... ..... ..... ..... .... ..
Sub-totat                            0.0      0.0      5.2    18.9    15.5    16.4    14.8    19.2           9.9    10.5    10.7        5.9      4.0      131.0
TOTAL                               39.5    67.3    66.6    19.6    15.5    16.4    14.8    19.2             9.9    10.5    10.7        5.9      4.0      299.9
o e 9s                          _   *-   _   _ 
October 4, 1991



-29 -                                                ANNEX   1
Page  i of 22
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
BENIN
Borgou I PCR
Project Costs
(CFAF 000)
,....................................................................................................
Expenditure Category     PY1       PY2      nY3      PY4      PY5      PY6      PY7       Total                FE
1. Insecticfdes, fert-     143836   343011   530612  885825   295956          0        0      2205240    14     1685936   76
hiEters etc.
2. Civil works &            55609   298601   185110   120584   145013    59973    53279        918169     6      550901    60
buildings.
3. Equipment.               21634   262990    28644    30522    23922    20634    73609        461955     3      369564   80
4. Vehicles:
(a) for parts A,B,C,    103544    80893    14441    51828   115965    99394    46667       512732      3      410186   80
D & E of Project.
(b) for pert F of the        0     3972   390626      8713        0        0        0      403311      3      322649   80
Project.
5. Local personnel &
other operating costs:
(a) for parts A,B5C,   282279   963739   596673   707221   938174   601797   807676       4897559    32            0    0
D & E of Project.
(b) for port F of the        0    15386      5634     5820     8960     5792    12813        54405     0           0    0
Project.
6. Consultants' services   231587   434995   309845   410189   334501   300285   227492       2248895    15     2065616   92
studies & scholarships.
7. Refunding of advances.  194012         0        0        0        0        0        0       194012     1      125430   65
8. Ginning & transport
equipment for part H         0         0        0        0        0   507913   459040       966952     6      951826   98
of the Project.
9. Unallocated.                 0         0        0        0        0        0         0           0     0           0    0
TOTAL                  1172315  3002754  2384942  2556760  2296518  1863420  2049000    15325709             6482108   42
%                            8        20       16       17       15       12       13
Conversion factor 1990       1.42      1.45     1.48     1.47     1.25     1.14     1.06
Costs in 1990 terms       1664.69  4353.99  3529.71  3758.44  2870.65  2124.30  2171.94
CFAF million
Of which 1                 204.25   497.37   794.19  1302.16   369.95      0.00     0.00



-30-                                                ANNEX   1
Page 2 of 22
BENIN
8ORGOU I PCR
Lconomic Analysis
(CFAF million)
,............... ........................................................................................... ...
Incremental Costs                             Benefits
Project    Seeds  FertiL-  Insect.  Labor   Other   TotaL             Incre.          Net
Costs             izer                       Cn-Fsrm                Production      Benefits
.................................. ...................................................................... ......... .............. ...........................
PYI         1271.52     4.94    91.75   155.88   156.87    60.70  1741.66         541.83      -1199.82
PY2         2987.36    26.96   243.17   274.91  1004.51   391.86  4928.77        4080.08       -848.69
PY3         2263.87    62.70   676.98   544.72  2306.42   938.12  6792.82        8964.54       2171.72
PY4         1961.75   103.38  1182.77   589.60  3408.83  1428.60  8674.93       12825.40       4150.46
PYS         1958.63   150.07  1374.44  1070.27  4683.83  1960.06 11197.30        7134.57      -4062.73
PY6         1969.20   213.80  1073.14  1257.03  :742.08  2393.20 12648.45        9645.59      -3002.86
PY?         1931.41   219.53   648.07   939.54  4647.42  2025.98 10411.95        7540.06      -2871.89
pYs  .       869.72   194.77  885.28   396.75  4981.64  2141.36  9469.52        14912.85       5443.34
PY9          869.72   194.77   762.72   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9726.46       13115.45       3388.99
PYlO          869.72   194.77   787.46   776.25  4981.64  2141.36 9751.20        10974.91       1223.71
PYII          869.72   194.77   800.37   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9764.11       10830.83       1066.71
PY12          869.72   194.77   832.43   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9796.17       11328.26       1532.09
PY13          869.72   194.77   856.60   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9820.34       11396.66       1576.32
PY14          869.72   194.77   865.03   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9828.77       11581.14       1752.38
PY15          869.72   194.77   862.35   776.25  4981.64  2141.36 9826.09        11462.90       1636.81
PY16          869.72   194.77   859.70   776.25  4981.64  2141.36 9823.44        11534.06       1710.61
PY17          869.72   194.77  852.27   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9816.01        11601.50       1785.49
PYls          869.72   194.77  849.67   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9813.41        11679.15       1865.73
PY19          869.72   194.77  837.48   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9801.22        11751.15       1949.93
PYZ0          869.72   194.77   837.37   776.25  4981.64  2141.36  9801.11       11747.68       1946.57
0.352116



-31-                                             ANNEXK 1
Page 3 uf 22
BENIN
B4RGOU I PCR
Economic Analysis
(CFAF milLion)
Alternative foodcrop scenario
.............. ........................... ................................. ....................................................., ,,... .. 
Incremental Costs                            Benefits
Project    Seeds  Fertil-  Insect.  Labor   Other   Total             Incre.          Net
Costs             izer                       On-Farm                Production      Benefits
PYl         1271.52     4.94    91.7   155.88   156.87   60.70  1741.66           541.83      .1199.82
PY2         2987.36    26.96   243.17  274.91  1004.51   391.86 4928.77          4080.08       -848.69
PY3         2263.87    62.70   676.98   544.72  2306.42  938.12  6792.82         8964.54       2171.72
PY4         1961.75   103.38  1182.77  589.60  3408.83  1428.60 8674.93         12825.40       4150.46
PYS   .     1958.63   121.47  1374.44  1070.27 4139.65  1705.86 10370.32         6105.19      -4265.13
PY6         1969.20   141.55  1073.14  1257.03 4950.87 2013.62 11405.41          7883.48      *3521.93
PY7         1931.41   105.83   648.07  939.54  3507.78  1466.14 8598.77          5898.78      -2699.99
PYS          869.72   121.49   885.28  396.75 4140,55  1706.20 8119.99          12603.00       4483.02
PY9          869.72   121.49   762.72   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8376.93        10873.42       2496.49
PY1O          869.72   121.49   787.46   776.25 4140.55  1706.20 8401.67          8951.23        549.55
PYI1          869.72   121.49   800.37   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8414.58         8994.57        579.99
PY12          869.72   121.49   832.43   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8446.64         9484.02       1037.38
PY13          869.72   121.49   856.60   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8470.81         9544.94       1074.14
PY14          869.72   121.49   865.03   776.25 4140.55  1706.20  8479.24         9669.61       1190.37
pYt-          869.72   121.49   862.35   776.25  4140.55  1706.20  8476.56        9527.54       1050.98
P             869.72   121.49   859.70   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8473.91         9566.35       1092.43
PY1(          869.72   121.49   852.27   776.25  4140.55  1706.20  8466.48        9607.84       1141.36
PYle          869.72   121.49   849.67   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8463.88         9650.96       1187.07
PY19          869.72   121.49   837.48   776.25  4140.55  1706.20  8451.69        9694.78       1243.09
PY20          869.72   121.49   837.37   776.25  4140.55  1706.20 8451.58         9692.56       1240.98
0.240684



BEN IN
BOR80  I PCR
PlO    PY1   PY2   PY3   PY4    PY5   PY6    PY7    PY8    P19   Pnto   P7I1    PY12   P113   P114   PY15   PY16   P117   PT18   PY19   P120
Productlon (t)
Total
Cotton      9375  10444 22980 36181  S9314 60048  82210  44363  68949
Naize      13670  16922 19414 20876  29325 39324  42941  40947  50756
sorghun    19930 22131 25137 30044  39294 47202  49100  46752  51764
Groundnuts  4875  3678  3144  3492   5345  6364  10413  12221  12822
Cowpeas     2500  3554  4742  5107   6134  6002   8375   7684   7562
Incremental
Cotton             1069 1305  26806  49939 50673  72835  34988  5974
Nafze              3252  5744  7206  15655 25654  29271  27277  37086
Sorghwu            2201  5207 10114  19364 27272  29170  26822  31834
Grounduuts        -1191 -1731  -1383    470  14689   5538   7346   7947
Ccwpeas            1054  2242  2607   3634  3502   5875   5184   5062
Prices (CFAF/kg)
Cotton            96.7  148.3  175.0  121.8  59.3   70.9  102.2  161.6  146.3  115.1  117.1  124.2  125.2  127.3  124.2  124.2  124.2  124.2  124.2  124.2
Naize               68    97   114       99    53       37     42      50     43      42     40      42      42     42      43     S4      45     47      48      481
Sorghun              71    97   106      97    53       39     43      51      45     43     41      43      43     43      44     45      47     48      49      49 k
Grounduts           60    65    80       80    95       95     85      50      71     48     32      24      25     33      31     30      28     27      25      25S
Compeas             85    90    85    110   125    176    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160g
Val.of Prod.tCFAF mill.)
Cotton            103.4 2017.8 4691.1  6083.8 3004.0 5161.0 3575.1  9624.3 8714.1 6857.1 6978.0 7401.1  7461.6 7582.5 7401.1  7399.1  7399.1  7399.1  7399.1  7399.1
Maize             221.1  557.2 821.5  1549.8 1359.7 1083.0  1145.6  1854.3  1594.7 1557.6 1483.4 1557.6 1557.6 1557.6  1599.7 1642.9 1687.2  1732.8  1779.6 1780.1
Sorghun           156.3 505.1 1072.1  1878.3 1445.4  1137.6 1153.3  1623.5  1432.5 1368.9 1305.2 1368.9 1368.9 1368.9 1405.8 1443.8  1482.8  1522.8 1563.9 1559.9
Grounivuts        -71.8 -112.5 -110.6   37.6  141.5  526.1  624.4  397.4  564.2  381.5  254.3  190.7  198.7  262.3  246.4  238.4  222.5  214.6  198.7  198.7
Coupeas            89.6 201.8 221.6  399.7 437.8  1034.0  829.4  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9  809.9
Total           498.6 3169.3 6695.6 9949.3 6388.3 8941.8 7328.0 14309.4 13115.5 10974.9 10830.8 11328.3 11396.7 11581.1 11462.9 11534.1 11601.5 11679.1 11751.2 11747.7
Conversion to 1990 prices
Con. factor (cot. 1.42   1.45   1.48   1.47  1.25    1.14   1.06   1.06
Total val.prod. 541.8 4080.1 8964.5 12825.4 7134.6 9645.6  7540.1 14912.9 13115.5 10974.9 10830.8 11328.3 11396.7 11581.1 11462.9 11534.1 11601.5 11679.1 11751.2 11747.7
Alternative foodcrop production scenario
Foodcrops at P14 levels
Val.of Prod.(CFAF mill.)
Maite             221.1  557.2 821.5  1549.8 829.7  579.2  657.5  782.8  673.2  657.5  626.2  657.5  657.5  657.5  675.3  693.5  712.2  731.4  751.2  751.4
Sorghua           156.3 505.1 1072.1  1878.3 1026.3  755.2  832.7  987.6  871.4  832.7  793.9  832.7  832.7  832.7  855.1  878.2  901.9  926.3  951.3  948.8
Groundnuts        -71.8 -112.5 -110.6   37.6  44.7   44.7   40J0   23.5   33.4   22.6   15.0   11.3   11.8   15.5   14.6   14.1   13.2   12.7   11.8   11.8
Cowpeas           89.6 201.8 221.6  399.7 454.3  639.6  581.4  S81.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4  581.4
Total           395.2 1151.5 2004.5 3865.5 2354.9 2018.7 2111.6 2375.3 2159.4 2094.2 2016.6 2082.9 2083.4 2087.1 2126.4 2167.3 2208.8 2251.9 2295.7 2293.5
Tot. Inct. cotton  541.8 4080.1 8964.5 12825.4 6105.2 7883.5 5898.8 12603.0 10873.4 8951.2 894.6 9484.0 9544.9 9669.6 9527.5 9566.3 9607.8 9651.0 9694.8 9692.6



BENIN
Borgou I PcR
Irpit nalysis
..............
PTO    PY1    P12   PY3    PY4   Pff   PY6    PY7 Pws-20
Total Area (he)
cotton          12500  10146  20048  32037  39120  S2983  68371  40997  53000
Maize           19525  21335  23392  27931  35036 41350  45759  45312  33439
Sorghum         33210  37103  39977 49902  57254  61912  60608  63733  70273
Crosndwts        8120   5943   4729   4954   7222   8174 10161  13736  14734
Cob""            7685   9548  12487  13122  13838  14624  15801  18561  16662
Incremental Area
I;otton                -23S4   7548  19537  26620 40483  55871  28497 40500
Naize                   1810   3867  8406  15511 21825  26234  25787  13914
Sorghum                 3893   6767  16692  24044  28702  27398  30523  37063
Lroeudumts             -2177  -3391  -3166   -898     54   2041   5616  6614
Compeas                 1863   4802   5437  6153   6939   8116  10876   8977
Proxduction (t)
Cotton           9375  12157  23741  36501  5931s  60048  82210 44363  68949
maize           13670  16922  19414  20876  29325  39324  42941  40947 50756
Sorghu          1990  22131  25137 30044  39294  47202  49100 46752  51764
Groeuduuts       487s   3678   314    3492   5345   6364  10413  12221  12822
Coeipeas         2500   3554   4742   5107  6134   6002   8375   7684   7562
Inrermntal
Cotton                  2782  14366  27126 49940  50673  72835  34988 59574
Maize                   3252   5744   7206  15655  25654  29271  27277 37086
Sorghum                 2201   520?  10114  19364  27272  29170  26822 31834
Groundurts             -1197  -1731  -1383    470   1489  5538   7346   7947
Copeas                  1054   2242   2607  3634   3502   5875   5184   5062
Area with Traction
Cotton                  7549  10749  18546  23263 34214  41459  32045  37574
Raise                   7408   7224  11552  17517 24406  19033  19120 21498
Sorghum                23245  16932 22642  26100 31396  22579  23745  3O545
Groundcuts              5444   3633   3414   9217   7600   8383  11332   9057
Cmpeas                     0      0   4538  4104 *8366   899   1056   3876
Incremental with Traction
Cotton                 -1530   4906  12699  17303  26314  36316  18523  26325
oaise                    833   1779   3867   7135  10040  1206S  11862  6400
sorgm                   1791   3113   7678  11060  13203  12603  14041  17049
Gr andts               -1872  -2916  -2M3   -2        46   1755  4830  s568
compmas                  373    960   10B7   1231   138B   1623  2175   1795
Incremental Minuet
cotton                  -824   2642   6838  9317  14169  19555  9974  14175
Maize                    977   2088  4539   8376  11786  14166  13925   7514
Sorghua                 2102   3654   9014  12984  15499  14795  16482  20014
6roundsuts              -305   -475   -443   -;Z6      8    286    786   926                                                                                X
CoWpeas                 1490  3842  4350   4922   5551   6493   8701   7182
91



SENIN
Borgau I PCR
Irput Analysis
.... . . . . .
PTO  Pn1    Pn2   Pn3   P14   P15   P16   PY7   P18   PY9  Pmo   PYI1   PY12  PY13  PY14  PY15  PY16  P11T  Pmla  P1t9  PM20
Incremental Labor ('000 days)
Cotton                 -276   884  2289  3119  4743  6545  3338  4745
maize                   176   376   817  1508  2122  2551  2508  1353
Sorghti                 379   658  1623  2338  2791  2664  298  3604
Groumiuts              -13l  -205  -191   -54        3    123   339   399
Coweas                  201   519   587   665   749   877  1175   970
Total                 349  2232  5125  7575  10409 12760  10328 11070
Cost (CFAF million)
At CFAF 400/day           0      1     2      3      4      5     4      4
At CFAF 45O/day           0      1     2      3      5      6     5      5
Other farm costs
At CFAF 20000/ha         61   392   938  1429  1960  2393  2026  2141
Inputs
Fertilizer(tons)
lMPn            1700  2177  2695  3627  5410  8149  7508  5438  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510  6510
Urea             150   241   550  1456  2512  3109  3266  2019  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677  2677
DAP                0      0      8     1      8   1294   619   418   521   521   521   521   521   521   521   521   521   521   521   521   521
ISP                0      0     0      0      0      0   279    50    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25
Insect. ('0001)   150   254   299   450   567   877   970   701   380   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600                  1
Inputs (Incremental)                                                                                                                                           41
Fertilizer(tons)
WPK                  476.95 994.85 1926.8 3710.3 6"49.4 5808.0 3738.4 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2 4810.2
Urea                   91.4 399.72 1306.4 2362.1 2959.0 3115.9 1869.2 2526.6 25?6.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6 2526.6
DAP                       0     8  0.55       8 1294.4 618.9 417.d 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95 520.95
TSP                       0     0      0      0      0 278.75  50.35   25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1
Insecticides(l)      103.92 149.41 300.12 416.97 726.59 819.98 551.37   230   450   450   450   450   450   450   450   450   450   450   450   450
PricesCCFAF/kg or L)
NPK                     164   181   215   205   135   116   111   119   100   103   104   108   111   112   112   112   111   111   109   109
Urea                    148   154   201   178   109    94    96    98    90    93    96   100   103   104   103   102   101   10o    99    99
DAP                     169   193   223   211   140   123   116   120   100   105   106   11I   115   11r   117   117   116   116   116   116
TSP                     145   162   181   175   124   109   103   109    88    93    93    97   1OO   102   102   102   103   103   103   103
Insecticides           1500  1840  1815  1414  1473  1533  1704  1725  1725  1725  12   1725 17    1725  1725  12   1725  12    1725  1725
Vatue(CFAF will.)
KPK                    78.2  180.1 414.3  760.6 870.7 673.7 415.0  572.4  481.0 495.5  500.3 519.5 533.9  538.7 538.7 538.7 533.9 533.9  524.3  524.3
Urea                   13.5  61.6 262.6 420.5  322.5  292.9  179.4 247.6 227.4  235.0  242.6  252.7 260.2  262.8 260.2 257.6 255.1  252.6  250.1  25J.1
DAP                     0.0   1.5   0.1   1.7  181.2  76.1  48.5  62.5  52.1  54.7  55.2  57.8  59.9  61.0  60.8  60.7  60.6  60.5  60.4  60.3
TSP                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  30.4   5.2   2.7   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6
Insecticides          155.9 274.9  544.7 589.6 1070.3 1257.0 939.5 396.8  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3  776.3
Total val. Inputs     247.6  518.1 1221.7 1772.4 2444.7 2330.2 1587.6 1282.0 1539.0 1563.7 1576.6 1608.7 1632.8 1641.3 1638.6 1636.0 1628.5 1625.9 1613.7 1613.6  ( Z
Of ihich fert.                                                              762.7 787.5 800.4 832.4  856.6 865.0 862.4 859.7 852.3 849.7 837.5 837.4   D



BENIN
Borgou I PCR
Irput Anartyis
Seed costs             Pn1    PY2   P13    PY4    ns    PT6   PV7 P18-20
(CFAF 000/ha)
Halze                                                               4.2
Groundnuts                                                         11.5
In 1990 terms
Cotton                                                              1.3
male                                                               4.4
Groumdmits                                                         12.1
Total Incre. Cost
Cotton                  -3.1    9.9   25.5   34.7   52.8   72.9   37.2   52.9
Nale                    8.0   17.1   37.2  68.6   96.6  116.1  114.1   61.6
Groundmits                                           0.7   24.8  68.2  80.3
.... .... .. ... .... ... .. .......... ................
4.9   27.0  62.7  103.4  150.1  213.8  219.5  194.8
Alt. (Foodcrops at Pr4 Levels) seed
Halze                    8.0  17.1   37.2  68.6  68.6  68.6  68.6  68.6
Total                    4.9   27.0  62.7  103.4  121.5  141.6  105.8  121.5
Alt.tab                      P15
Incre. food lab. In PT  4457
Incre.Lab.                     9199  11002  7795   9201
Vat.(CFAF  fItIIon)            4.14  4.95   3.51   4.14
Alt.other
Incre.food area In P14 44810
85293 100681  73307 85310
Val.(CFAF  iIIon)           1705.8 2013.6 1466.1 1706.2
fim
0._ 
O ~



Borgou I PCR
FarnSate Price for Cotton
Current Pricas
Ite                        Unit   1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    2000
CIF Cotton fibre (1)       USS/t    1597    1854    1790    1320    1088    1250    1400    1670    1820    1630    1650    1720    1730    1750    1720
Qusaity Discont (2)                   319     371     358     211       54      63       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0
Freight, ins. etc.         US$/t    110       101     100      105     115     120     120     120     120     120     120     120      120     120     120
FOB Cotonou                USS/t    1168    1382    1332    1004    919    1068    1280    1550    1700    1510    1530    1600    1610    1630    1600
FOB Cotonou (3)            CFAF/t 384140  525236  582084  450706  317836  320250  381440 494450  464100 377500 3820  400000 402500 407500  400000
Less:
SUMPRA operations          CFAF/t 20200   21420   21435   22004   20620   32153   34333   17420   19546   16453   16453   16453   16453   16453   16453
Financial charges          CFAF/t 26226   14000   23678   10800   25040   19990   17100   14300   14657   12212  12212   12212   12212   12212   12212
Port charges & transit      CFAF/t  7590    7500   20169   11688   14203   13154   12479    7204   16790   19005   19005   19005   19005   19005   19005
Storage 4 handling         CFAF/t  3051    2360    1063    3887    3804    8000    5395    6977    1018    2488    2488    2488    2488    2488    248
Transportation             CFAF/t  9766    9766    6500    9526    9598    9600   8970   10851   20027   19103   19103   19103   19103   19103   19103
Price mi tigate             CFAF/t 317307  470190  509239  392801  244571  237353  303163  437698  392062 308239  313239  330739 333239 338239 330739
Less girming costs:
operations                 CFAF/t 35160   42519   39713   32053   42667   36778   33957   33358   38902   36253   36253   36253   36253   36253   36253
Insurance                  CFAF/t  3471    3329       733     569    2999    2225    1133    2732    2076    2151    2151    2151    2151    2151    2151
Vat cot. seed (Equiv. lint)CFAF/t 24000   24000   35500   40457   15844  40334   28747   29902   42506  44400   44400   44400  44400   44400  4400 
value of fibre             CFAF/t 302676  448342  504293  400636 214749  2364  296820 431510  393590 314235  319235  336735  339235  344235  336735 
0%
Eqiiv.seed cotton (5)      CFAF/t 115017  170370  191631  152242  83752   92609  120509  175193  160191  128836  130886  138061  139086  141136  138061               I
Less:
Deprec.in storage (12)     CFAF/t   1150    1704    1916    1522      838      926    1205    1752.   1602    1288    1309    1381    1391    1411    1381
Transport to factory       CFAF/t   8518   11618    9454    8053   13630   11571   10383    6033    6532    6619    6619    6619    6619    6619    6619
Purchasing, begging etc.   CFAF/t   8629    8736    5250   20842  iO003    9253    6738    5856    5785    5827    5827    5827    5827    5827    5827
Val.seed cotton at
market centre or farwgate  CFAF/t 96720  148312  175011  121824   59282   70859  102182  161552  146273  115102  117131  124234  125249  127279  124234
...........................
Notes
(1) CIF prices based on *World Bank Revision of Primary Comodity Forecasts, December 1990 & Narch 1991
(2) Ouality discount of 20X from 1982-1984, 16X in 1985 & 5  in 1986 & 87 due to poor grading and selling.
(3) Converted to CFAF at average exchange rates prevailing each year to 1990; from 1991 exchange rate of USS1=CFAF 285 used
(4)  ActuaL giming rates to 1991 as foiltos 38X (1982-85). 39X (1986 &87), 40.6X to 1990 and 412 from 1991.
Costs obtained from SONAPRA.
N
oo 
Ph



- 37                                                 ANNEX   I
Page 9 of 22
BENIN
WRGOU I PCR
.......................................
Economic Farwate Prices
........................
,,,,,,,,..,,,,...............    ......................................................................
*       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987       1988     1989      1990
. ,, ,,,,0                                          .,............ ..... .. ..... --
UREA
*.-- --  - 1990 USS PER TOM................
F.0.B.(1)                          *        226      196     254     200     134      133      156      140       157
FREIGHT & INSURANCE (2)            *         71       73      74      74      62       57       50       53        50
C.l.F                              *        296      269     328     274      196     190      206       193      207
.
*-------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG.-----.-.-.--       ------------------
.
C.I.F. (3)                         0         98      102     143     123      68       57       61        62       56
PORT HAND./STORAGE(4)              *          11      11      11      11       9        9        8         8        8
.
FINANCIAL CHARGES (5)              *         13       14      19      17       9        8        8        a         8
.
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU             ^         121     127     174     150      86       73       77        78       71
.
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (6)          *          12      12      13      13       11      10        9         9        9
WAREHOUSE VAL. 8ORGOU              *         133     139     186     163      97       83       86        87       80
.
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (7)           *          14      15      15      15       12      11       10        11       10
FARNGATE PRICE                     *        148      154     201     178     109      94        96       98        90
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank c     fmnodity price projectfors;Urea(FOB N.W.Europe bagged;45-0-0)
(2) Freight & Insurance charges Europe-Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at actual everoge exchange rates prevafiLng each year.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(6) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 415 In at about 20.6 CFA/ton/k.
(7) Distribution charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.



-  3 -                                                 AlNNEX.  1
Page iO of 22
BENIIN
SORGOU I PCR
...   ..... ................................. ..........
Economic Farmgate Prices
...........................................   ...  ...........--------------*--------....---------..--------.-.............---------------------..............
*        1990    1991       1992    1993      1994      1995      2000
*..... .... .  .....   ----               ....    ....        ----
UREA
1----------------------------1990 USS PER TON ----------------
*
F.O.B.(1)                              *          157      156      168       178      188       190       176
FREIGHT & INSURANCE (2)                *           50       50       50        50       50       50         50
C.I.F                                  *          207      206      218       228      238      240        226
*
*----------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG .-----------------
*
C.I.F. (3)                             *           56       59        62       65       68        68        64
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)                 *            8         8        8        8        8         8         8
*
FINANCIAL CHARGES (5)                  *            8        8         8        9        9         9         9
*
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU                             71        74       78       81       85        85        81
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (6)              *            9         9        9        9        9         9         9
WAREHOUSE VAL. B8RGOU                   *          80       83        86       90       93        94        89
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (7)                *          10        10       10       10        10       10         10
*
FARNGATE PRICE                         *           90       93       96       100      103       104        99
---- -........- -..-.-- --.---            ....................................... ................ ......................*........  ........................
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;Urea(FOB N.U.Europe bagged;45-0-0)
(2) Freight & Insurance charges Europe-Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at USS1=CFAF 272 for 1990 and USS1=CFAF 285 from 1991 onwards.
(4) Port handtlng & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(6) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFA/ton/km.
(7) Distribution charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.
........................2==== =====================



- 39  -                                             ANNEX   1
Page 11 of 22
BENIN
BORGCU I PCR
...................... ................................ ........
Economic Farmgate Prices
............... ................
................................... ..............................................................................
*       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987          1988      1989      1990
*....        ----.   ....     ....  .    ----   ....  .  . ....     ....  .  .... .. ..... ..... ..
POTASH(KCL)
...-..-.....                           ---------------------------.1990 USS PER TON.--------------.------------------
*
F.O.B.(1)                                      116      109     125      124       86       78       89       105        98
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)                *          92      94       96       96       81       74       65        69        65
C.I.F                                *         209      203     221      219      167      152       154       174      163
*
---------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG.---------------------------------
*
C.I.F. (3)                           a          69       77      97       98       58       46        46       56        44
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)                          11       11       11      11        9        9         8        8         8
BAGGING (5)                          *           9        9       9        9        7        7         6         6        6
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)                *           9       10      13       13        8        6         6        8         6
*
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU               *          97      107      130     132       83       67        66        77       64
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)            *          12       12       13      13       11       10         9         9        9
*
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU                          109      120     142      144       93       77        74       87        72
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)             *          14       15       15      15       12       11        10        11        10
FARMGATE PRICE                       *         123      134     157      159      106       88       84        97        82
................................... ...............................................................................
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;KCL FOB Vancouver(0-0-61)
(2) Freight fram Europe to Cotonou plus USS 15/ton for extra distance Vancouver/Europe.
(3) Converted to CFAF at actual average exchange rates prevailing each year.
(4) Port handling S storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Bags at 4700 CFA/ton and bagging at 1300 CFA/ton.
(6) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFA/ton/km.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.



- 40  -                                              ANNEX  1
Page 12 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
....................................   .... ...... ............
Economic Farngate Prices
............. .......... ..... ,*... ... ........................ ...................... ........
a       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995       2000
.. ..      ....     ----.   ....    ....  .   ....    .......... 
POTASHNKCL)
.        --------------------1990 USS PER TON-----------------
*
F.O.B.Cl)                          a          98      94      95      101     105      105      106
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)              *          65      65      65       65      65       65       65
C.I.F                              *         163     159      160     166     170      170      171
*
----------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG-----------------
C.I.F. (3)                         *          44      45       46      47      48       49       49
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)             *           8       8        8       8       8        8        8
BAGGING (5)                        *           6       6        6       6       6        6        6
*
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)              *           6       6       6        6       7        7        7
*
WAREHOUSE VWL. CIOwOu U                       64      65       65      67      68       69       69
*
TRAMSP.COTOkVWU-BORGOU (7)         a           9       9        9       9       9        9        9
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOW                         72      74       74      76      77       77       77
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)           *          10      10       10      10       10      10        10
a
FARIATE PRICE                                 82      84      84       86      87       87       87
................................... .............................................................
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;KCL FOS Vancouver(O-0-61)
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonoua plus US$ 15/ton for extra distance Vancouver/Europe.
(3) Converted to CFAF at USS1aCFAF 272 for 1990 and USS1=CFAF 285 from 1991 onwards.
C4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(S) lags at 4700 CFA/ton and bagging at 1300 CFA/ton.
(6) Financial Charges at an averagq rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Perakou;Average distance of 415 In at about 20.6 CFA/ton/km.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.
B-X-a=a   =za=s=53=u-stw-=-===-a-saass-Su5sB==s=



-41-                                             ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
....... ............-. .. ........... .....
Economfc Farmgato Prfces
..... ...................... ......
-....................*-............ ..........................-............
*       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987       1988    199       1990
. .......    ....  ......    ....  ......    ....  ......       .... .   ....
SUPERPHOSPHATE(TSP)
*--- -.. ---.. ---------------1990 USS PER TON.----------------------------------
w
F.O.B.t1)                          *         196     196      194     178     151      157      159       153      132
FREIGHT A INSURANCE (2)            *          71      73       74      74      62       57       50        53       50
C.I.f                              *         267     269      269     251     213      214      209       206      182
*
*----------..---------------1990 CFAF PER KG-----------------------------------
*
C.I.F. (3)                         *          88     102      117     113      74       64       62        66       S0
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)                        11      11       11      11       9        9        8         a        8
SAGGING (5)                                    9       9        9       9       7        7        6         6        6
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)              *          12      14       16      15      10        9        8         9        7
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU             *         119     135      153     148      101      88       84        89       70
*
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)          *          12      12       13      13      11       10        9         9        9
*
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU              *         131     148      166     161      111      98       93        96       78
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)           *          14      15       15      15       12      11       10        11       10
*
FARNGATE PRICE                     *         145     162      181     175     124      109      103       109       88
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bsank price projections; FOB US Gulf ports(O-45-0).
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at actual average exchange rates prevailftig each year.
C4) Port handlng & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Sags at 4700 CFAWton and bagging at 1300 CWA/ton.
(6) Financiat Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou; Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CfA/ton/ko.
(8) Distrfbution charges taken at 10 FCfAWkg.
-_ _ _ _ _ _ uz=uasuu.uu=uuuuu



-42 -                                                  ANENX  I
Page 14 of 22
BENIN
SORGOU I PCR
Economic Farmgate Prices
,,,,.,........,,.,,.........  ................................... ......................................... ....................
*       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        2000
*....       ....  .   ....   ....  .   ....   ....   .    .... .. ..... ..
SWPERPHOSPHATEtTSP)
...................                  --------------------------1990 USS PER TON -------------.
*
F.O.B.(1)                           *        132      138     139      152     161      168       168
FREIGHT & INSURANCE (2)             *         50       50      50       50      50       50       50
C.I.F                               *         182     188      189     202     211      218       218
*
*--------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG.---------------
*
C.I.F. (3)                          *          so      53       54      58      60       62        62
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)              *           8       8        8       8        8       8         8
SAGGING (5)                                     6       6        6       6        6       6         6
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)               *           7       7        7       8       8        8         8
*
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONWOU                        70      74       75      79      82       84        84
TRANSP.COTONWOU-BORGOU (7)          *           9       9       9        9       9        9         9
WAREHOUSE VAL. 80RGOU                          78      83       83      87       90      92        93
DISTRPUTION CHARGES (8)                        10      10       10      10       10      10        10
FARNGATE PRICE                      ^         88       93      93       97     100      102       103
................................... ...............................
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank price projections; FOB US Gulf ports(0-45-0).
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at USS1=CFAF 272 for 1990 and USS1.CFAF 285 from 1991 onwards.
(4) Port hardling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Sags at 4700 CFA/ton and bagging at 1300 CFA/ton.
(6) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou; Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFA/ton/km.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.
u.uaD3zafliuuniu.ulunu3u3uum-aaa-n3aa--3-m----uz-a-u-ua-----   ssusnn32u3uUuu,-w3Ua



-43-                                             A.. WNNEX 1
?age 15 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
............... ...........
Economic Farmgate Prices
... ...... .......................... ............ *............. ....... ......... ..................................
*       1982    1983    198K    1985    1986    1987      1988     1989     1990
*,....      .... .   ....   .... .   ....   ....   .    ....   ....  .   .... .. ..
DIANNONIUI PHOSPHATE (DAP)
*------------------------        .*----------------------------1990 US  PER TON ----------------------------
*
F.O.B.(1)                         *        260      267     280     249     192     198      198       184      171
FREIGHT 8 INSURANCE (2)           *         71       73      74      74      62      57       50        53       50
C.I.F                             *        330      340     355     322     255     255      248       237      221
*----------------------------1990 CFAF PER T -------------------------
.
C.I.F. (3)                        *         109     129     155     145      88      76        74       76       60
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)            *          11      11      11      11       9       9         8        8        8
BAGGING (5)                                   9       9       9       9       7       7         6        6        6
*
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)             *          15      17      21      20      12      10        10       10        8
*
WAREHOJSE VAL. COTONO             *         143     166     196     184     117     102        98      100       82
*
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)         *          12      12      13      13      11      10         9        9        9
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU             *         155     178     209     197     128     112       106      109       90
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)          *          14      15      15      15      12      11        10       11       10
*
FARNGATE PRICE                    *         169     193     223     211     140     123       116      120      100
-..................................   ....................*....................- .....................................
FOOTNOTES
(1) Sank commodity price projections;DAP FOB US Gulf.
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonwu.
(3) Converted to CFAF at actual average exchange rates prevailing each year.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Rags at 4700 CFA/ton and bagging at 1300 CFA/ton.
(6) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average  distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFAIton/km.
(8) pistribution charges taken at 17 FCFA/kg.



-44-                                                ANNEX-
Page 16 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
Econamic Farigate Prices
................................. ..  ....................................................................*.......................
*       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995       2000
*   ....    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....       ....
DIANNIUN PHOSPHATE (DAP)
*.10---------------------------9I   US$ PER TON-----------------
F.O.B.t1)                          *         171     174      180     195     207      213      210
FREIGHT & INSURANCE (2)            *          50      50      50       S0      50       50       50
C.I.F                              *         221     224      230     245     257      263      260
*
*---------------------------1990 CFAF PER T -----------------
C.I.F. (3)                         *          60      64       65      70      73       75       74
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)             e           8       8        8       8       8        8        8
BAGGING (5)                        *           6       6        6       6       6        6        6
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)              *           8       9       9        9      10       10       10
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU             *          82      86       88      93      97       99       98
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)          *           9       9        9       9       9        9        9
*
WAREHOUSE VAL. SORGOU              *          90      95       96     101      105     107       106
*
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)           *          10      10       10      10       10      10       10
FARNGATE PRICE                     *         100     105      106     111     115      117      116
......................... .......... .............................................. _........... ....
FOOTNOTES
C1) Bank comnodity price projections;DAP FOB US Gulf.
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at USS1XCFAF 272 for 1990 and US$1lCFAF 285 from 1991 onwards.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Bags at 4700 CFA/ton and bagging at 1300 CFA/ton.
(6) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(7) Transport fron Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFA/tonlkm.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 17 FCFA/kg.
auumanu.nun Bnuin.uuuuuuuuu Oz3uu3umuu               3Ufl.2inflU32     l21UU UU3U   U3UUUUUUU



- 45  -                                        ANNEX  I
Page 17 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
............ ......................................... ...
Economic Farmgate Prices
..... .......  **..... ..........    . ...  ... ...........  ....
*       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987       1988     1989     1990
*....       ....  .    ....  ----.   ....    ....  .  ....      ----.    .... .. ..... ..
NPK
.----------------------------1990 USS PER TON-----------------------------------
VALUE PER NUTRIENT(FACTORY)(1) *
. ........................ .*
UREA                               *     501.18  435.41  563.80  444.44  296.85  295.45   346.52   311.73   348.89
TSP                                *     434.99  435.41  431.92  395.42  335.69  348.48   353.23   340.06   293.33
KCL                                *     190.68  178.45  204.31  202.51  141.22  128.54   145.13   172.47   160.66
*
PRICE PER NUTRIENT OF NPK (2)      *     386.09  364.87  405.64  355.92  271.64  273.55   294.26   286.28   272.16
*
COST RAW MAT.PER KG.NPK(3)         *     196.91  186.09  206.88  181.52  138.54  139.51   150.07   146.00   138.80
BORACIWI & SULPHUR                 *      15.00   14.18   15.76   13.83   10.55   10.63    11.43    11.12    10.57
MIXING COST & BAGGING(4)           *      56.74   58.06   59.35   58.82   49.94   45.45    40.24    42.51    40.00
*
F.O.B(EUROPE)                      *     268.64  258.32  281.98  254.17  199.03  195.59   201.75   199.63   189.38
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (5)              *      70.92   72.57   74.18   73.53   62.42   56.82    50.30    53.13    50.00
C.I.F                              *     339.57  330.89  356.17  327.70  261.45  252.41   252.05   252.77   239.38
*
*----------------------------1990 CFAF PER T ----------------------------------
C.I.F. (6)                         *        112      126     156     147      90       76       75       81        65
PORT HAND./STORAGE (7)             *         11       11      11      11       9        9        8        8        8
FINANCIAL CHARGES (8)              *         15       17      21      20      12       10       10       11        9
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU             *        137      154     188     178     112       94       93       99        81
TqANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (9)          *         12       12      13      13      11       10        9        9        9
.IAREH(XISE VAL. BORGOU            *        150      166     200     191     123      104      101      109       90
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES010)           *         14       15      15      15      12       11       10       11        10
*
FARMGATE PRICE                     *        164     181      215     205     135     116       111      119      100
-................ ............................................................
FOOTNOTES
(1) The fertilizer used in the project area is 14-23-14-5-1 granulated NPK.Prices
in US$/ton of nutrients are from the FOB prices for Urea (for N), TSP (for P),
and KCL (for K).Converted to value per nutrient by dividing FOB prices by Percentage
concentration.
(2) Weighted average of prices for N,P,and K;wvth weights from 14-23-14.
(3) Weighted average of nutrient prices converted back to the compound NPK (14-23-14).
(4) Granulating and bagging cost assumed at USS4O/ton.
(5) Freight from Europe to Cotonou.
(6) Converted to CFAF at actual average exchange rates prevailing each year.
(7) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(8) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(9) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFA/ton/km.
(10) Distribution charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.



-46 -                                            ANNEX  1
Page 18 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
.......................................
Econrmic Farmgate Prices
........................
.......... ..................... .. ............................... .......... ..................... 
*       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    199f      2000
e....    .. ..    ....    ....    .......    ....     .. ...
NPK
---.*.-------------------    1990 USS PER TONM-...............
VALUE PER NUTRIENT(FACTORY)(1)
...........................       a
UREA                              *     348.89  346.45  372.79  394.59  418.11  422.17   391.09
TSP                               ^     293.33  305.69  308.30  337.93  358.38  372.27   373.53
KCL                               ^      160.66  154.85  156.08  165.70  171.85  172.70   173.10
PRICE PER NUTRIENT OF NPK (2)     e     272.16  275.47  284.22  306.20  323.57  331.19   323.33
COST RAW NAT.PER KG.NPK(3)        *      138.80  140.49  144.95  156.16  165.02  168.90   164.90
BORACIUN & SULPHUlt                       10.57   10.70   11.04   11.89   12.57   12.86    12.56
MIXING COST & BAGGINGM4)                 40.00   36.68   36.27   36.42   35.84   34.54    28.73
F.O.B(EUROPE)                     ^     189.37  187.87  192.26  204.48  213.43  216.31   206.19
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (5)             ^      50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00    50.00
C.I.F                             ^     239.37  237.87  242.26  254.48  263.43  266.31   256.19
*
.-------------------------1990 CFAF PER T -----------------
*
C.I.F. (6)                        *         65       68      69      73      75      76        73
PORT HAND./STORAGE (7)                       a 8      8       8       8       8       8        8
FINACIAL CHARGES (8)              *          9        9       9      10      10      10        10
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU                       81      84      86      90      93      94        90
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (9)                    9        9       9       9       9       9        9
WAREHOUSE AL. BORGOU              ^          90      93      94      98     101     102        99
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES(10)          a          10      10      10      10      10      10        10
FARWATE PRICE                     ^         100     103     104     108     111     112       109
..................... .............. ................................. ........ ................ .... ... 
FOOTNOTES
(1) The fortilizer used in the project area is 14-23-14-5-1 granulated NPlt.Pricos
in US$/ton of nutrients are from the FOB prices for Urea (for N), TSP (for P),
and KCL (for KC).Converted to value per nutrient by dividing FOB prices by Percentage
concentration.
(2) Weighted average of prices for N*P,and K;with weights from 14-23-14.
(3) Weighted average of nutrient prices converted back to the conpoumd NPK (14-23-14).
(4) Granulating and bagging cost assumed at US$40/ton.
(5) Freight from Europe to Cotonou.
(6) Converted to CFAF at USS1-CFAF 272 for 1990 and US$1-CFAF 285 from 1991 onwaards.
(7) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(8) Financial Charges at an average rate of 13.5X of CIF price.
(9) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 415 km at about 20.6 CFA/ton/km.
(10) Distributfon charges taken at 10 FCFA/kg.
-_*--~~~~unan. uuuanna *--DS-g llSauuuanfnannann                                         an______     



- 47 -                                                ANNEX  1
Page 19-of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
Economic Farmgate Prices
A                                       *        1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        2000        *
--*        . .... .... .... ...... . . . .*
............... .................. . . .. ..................... .................................... ............. ............................*
MAIZE--For Export to Niger          *------1-9---------------1990 USS PER TON. .         ----..........
-------------------------......--..........*                                                                 *
F.O.B.(1)                           *         109      97      92       97      98       98       118
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)                         45       45      45       45      45       45        45        *
C.l.F                               *         154     142      137     142      143     143       163
*                                                                        *
*-------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG         -. . ..
a*
C.I.F. (3)                          *          42      41       39      41       41      41        46        *
PORT HANP./STORAGE (4)                          a 8     8        8       8        8       8         8        a
OVERHEAD/MARGIN (5)                 *           5       5        5       5        5       5         5
*                                                                        a
WHOLESALE VAL. COTONOU              *          54      53       51      53       53      53        59        a
a                                                                        a
TRANSP.COTON0U-PARAKOU (6)          *           9       9        9       9        9       9         9        *
TRANS.PROJ.AREA-PARAKOU (6)                     5       5        5       5        5       5         5
VALUE MAIZE PROJECT AREA (7)        *          58      57       55      57       57      57        63        a
PRIMARY M'KTING & Sagging (8)       a          15      15       15      15       15      15 is     I
FARNGATE VALUE                      *         43       42      40       42      42       42        48
..........................- -*. -.a. ............................................ ............,..
FOOTNOTES                                                                                                    *
(1) Bank cofmodity price projections;No. 2 YeLlow Gulf Ports                                                 a
(2) Estimated Freight & Insurance charges Gulf Ports-Cotonou. 
(3) Converted to CFAF at USS1=272 CFAF for 1990 and USS1-285 CFAF for 1991 onwards.                          a
(4) Port handling & storage estimated to be same as for fertilizer.
(5) Importer's overhead & handling costs estimated at 10X of CIF plus                                        a
port handling and storage charges. 
(6) Transport between Cotonou & Parakou is about 415 km.Cost/ton/km. estimated at same                       *
rate as for fertilizer CFAF 20.6/ton/km. Transport from production area to                               a
Parakou, average distance of 100 km at 45 CFAF/ton/km. 
(7) Project produced maize taken as import substitute for export to Niger and N. Nigeria. 
(8) Primary marketing and bagging assumed at 15000 CFAF per ton.
*-w--a#a3na=a:=====a=3z==a-awswassaw21aa2=aa---= "sz"n-asD--w-a--wn--s--w---w---a



- 48 -                                               ANNEX  1
Page 20 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
Ecor niic Farmgate Prices
.................
...................................                 .............................................................................-
b       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987       1988      1989     1990
....    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....          ....      ....     ....
................................ .................................................................... I......*
MAIZE--For Export to Niger          -----     -      -1990 US$ PER TOm.--- --------------------------W--.-
.................................        -       -*
F.0.B.(1)                          *         155     197     202      165     110       86      108       119      109
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)              *          43      44      45       44      37       34       30       32        45
C.l.f                              *         197     241     246      209     147      120      138       151      154
*
*- ---------------------1990 CFAF PER KG-----------------------------------
*
C.t.F. (3)                         *          65      92      108      94      51       36       41        48       42
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)                        11      11       11      11       9        <        8         8        8
OVERHEAD/MARGIN (5)                *           8      10       12      10       6        4        5         6        5
*
WHOLESALE VAL. COTONO              *          83     113      131     115      66       49       53        62       54
*
TRANSP.COTONOU-PARAKOU (6)         *          12      12       13      13      11       10        9         9        9
TRANS.PROJ.AREA-PARAKOU (6)        b           6       7        7       7       6        5        5         5        5
VALUE MAIZE PROJECT AREA (7)       *          89     119      137     121      71       54       58        66       58
*
PRIMARY N'IKTING & Bagging (8)     *          21      22       22      22       19      17       15        16       15
*
FARMGATE VALUE                     *          68      97      114      99      53       37       .2        s0       43
FOOTNOTES
0l) Bank csaunodity price projections:No. 2 Yetlow Gulf Ports
(2) Estimated Freight & Insurance charges Gulf Ports-Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at average exchange rates preveiling each year.
(4) Port hndling & storage estimated to be same as for fertilizer.
(5) mnorter's overhead & handling costs estimated at 10X cf CIF plus
port handling and storage charges.
(6) Transport between Cotonou & Parakou is -.bout 415 km.Cost/ton/km. estimated at same
rate as for fertilizer CFAF 20.6/ton/km. Transport from production area to
Parakou, average distance of 10') km at 45 CFAF/ton/kmn.
(7) Project produced maize taken as import substitute for export 'o Niger and N. Nigeria.
(8) Primary marketing and bagging assuned at 11400 CFAF per ton.
w=oJaleaeSSss=a-s--esg--=--e--==-2-gS--~siS-s-wra--==--e===w=w--=-s=a-=a-R-1ng=sses--essa-=====eW=======ep



- 49 -                                       ANNEX  1
Page 21 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
Economic Faregate Prices
.....................  *-..... ...-..-,---......-------...........-...-............................   ............. ........... ................... 
~ *     1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995         2000
-*                             -        -        -        -        -~~~~~~~~..  ..  ..  .. -- -... ---
........................ ........... .......................................... .. ........ ... *........ ....
SORGHUM--For Export to Niger        *----------------------------1990 USS PER TOM-----------------------*
_*                        e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *
F.0.B.(1)                           *         104       92      87       91      92       93       111         *
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)               *          45       45      45       45      45       45        45         *
C.I.F                                         149      137     132      136      137     138       156
*                                                                         a
----------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG------------------------
*                                                                         *
C.I.F. COTONAJ (3)                  ^          41       39      38       39       39      39        45         a
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)              *           8        8       8        8        8       8         8         *
OVERHEAD/MARGIN (5)                             5        5        5       5        5        5        5
WHOLESALE VAL. COTONOU                         53       51       50      51       51      52        57
TRANSP.COTONWU-KANDI (6)            *11                 11               11       11      11        11         *
TRANS.PROJ.AREA-KANDI (6)                       5        5        5       5        5       5         5         a
VALUE SORGHUNM PROJECT AREA (7)    a           60       58      56       58       58      58        64
f                                                                         *
PRIMARY M'KTING & Bagging (8)       *i                  15       15      15       15       15       15         *
a                                                                         *
FARMGATE VALUE                                 4 45     43      41       43      43       43        49         *
....... ------------ ....................................................................a--------             a
FOOTNOTES
*
(1) Bank commodity price projections;No. 2  Milo Yellow Gulf Ports                                             *
(2) Estimated Freight & Insurance charges Gulf Ports-Cotonou.                                                  *
(3) Converted to CFAF at USs1=272 CFAF for 1990 and USS1=285 CFAF for 1991 onwards.                            a
(4) Port handling & storage estimated to be same as for fertilizer.                                            *
(5) Irporter's overhead & handling costs estimated at 10X of CIF plus                                          a
port handling and storage charges.                                                                         *
(6) Transport between Cotonou & Kandi is about 628 km. Cost/ton/km. estimated at same                          *
rate as for fertilizer CFAF 20.6/ton/km. Transport from production area to                                a
Parakou, average distance of 100 km at 45 CFAF/ton/km.                                                     *
(7) Project produced sorghun taken as import substitute for export to Niger and N. Nigeria.                    *
(8) Primary marketing and bagging assumed at 15000 CFAF per ton.                                               *
=~                                                    =
U



- 50  -                                         ANNEX  1
Page 22 of 22
BENIN
BORGOU I PCR
Economic Farmgate Prices
~~~~. .  *....... .. . ..  ....................  ... .... ................. ...........................
e       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987        1988      1989     1990
* _ _ _ ~~. _______.. ._. _......_.._._                 ....... _ ......
__.......__  __........._  __  _  _.___._._...........  ......................  _  __ _---- _: ....
SORGHUM--For Export to Niger        *-1990-----------------------0U US$ PER TOM--PE.-TON---.----------
. ........*................
F.0.B.01)                           *        155      187     177      151     102       83       100      113       104
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)               *         43       44      45       44      37       34       30        32       45
C.I.F                               *         197     231     221      196      140     117       130      145       149
*------------------------1990 CFAF PER KG.--------------v-v-----------.--
*
C.I.F. COTONOU (3)                             65      88       97      88      48       35        39       46        41
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)              *          11      11       11      11        9       9         8        8         8
OVERHEAD/MARGIN (5)                 *           8      10       11      10        6       4         5        5         5
*
WHOLESALE VAL. COTONOU              *          83     108      119     109       64      48        51       59        53
*
TRANSP.COTONOU-KANDI (6)            *          16      16       17      17       14      13        11       12        11
TRANS.PROJ.AREA-KANDI (6)           0           6       7        7       7        6       5         5        5         5
VALUE SORGHIM PROJECT AREA (7)                 93     118      129     119       72      56        58       67        60
PRIMARY M'KTING & Begging (8)                  21      22       22      22       19      17        15       16        15
*
FARNGATE VALUE                      *         71       97     106       97      53       39        43       51        45
-.... ............................................___,
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;No. 2  Nilo Yettow Gulf Ports
(2) Estimated Freight & Insurance charges Gulf Ports-Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at average exchange rates prevailing each year.
C4) Port handling & storage estimatecS to be same as for fertilizer.
(5) Inwqcrterts overhead & handling costs estimated at 10X of CIF plus
port handLing and storage charges.
(6) Transport between Cotonou & Kandi is abou. 628 km. Cost/ton/km. estimated at same
rate as for fertilizer CFAF 18/ton/km. Transport from production area to
Kandi, average distance of 100 km at 45 CFAF/ton/km.
(7) ProJect produced sorghum taken as inport substitute for export to Niger and N. Nigeria.
(8) Primary marketfin  and bagging assumed at 15000 CFAF per ton.
jp



ORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                     N I G E R
Project Area with Principal Centers ond Location of Development                               (
Existing establishmeints
SONAGRI garage and cotton ginneries
o  CARDER garage
MtDRAC agricUttufat research center                                                          KA5IMA?uA                      (
Proposed project developmcntst                                                                                                           12
?    Provinc ot CARDER training center                                                                                                          I2r
Seed production form                                                                                     B,NLaEO
Primory roads                               BURKINA                                                   T             At4        2  -O
Secondary roads                             FASO j   C                                      o'      Gx
RaSlroad 
Rivers                                                     )                                           /
Pronince capitals                                        I    )o5OI
O    DistriCt ca,pitals
Ilroince bsAounaiespono
tnternatoanda boundaries                                                   .-.Ia.o'. \.
rX              j      \    {/      >      ^S~~~~OFeANI,OAuAnao,o.DebOo G5  4iy/
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~vk
[rv         g          \ f   3ANIKm              X         /       /            )        / \\    \,...  BA
0   GOU               s UK
Stiori o                  NATIIING       Kou,onde     ->                   OS> <I5NENDE                                       LAL
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
\,   \                               Go ssou o v~~~~~~~~~~S                      ronon    V       oStNsiGER
TO' '1 aBirni / > GbomPrO S.k-P
T O G O  j    X   g _                  ,                    5 # 1PERERE             {   ~~~~~~~~N I G E R I A
A  > T&Krfo>t            Du
. k  \ue      t MVAs,oJ0r                                         N Bbruithlhu
9-                           9                                                      N I G E R
HTCAOU  U                         A J B            NIGERIA
0       20    r        4E0         no                 60 ,8 |kOCo,,-,_   S              -                                      > 9-tJProvincO
Kinelen                 j                                                f     t                   COO |  ,GiiANAS O>9 oro00    > 'Q
0 ;0         20                                 30                                  40  5o   !  R  Z  O U                        '      EQ|   UI! m
_   I                  I \\FOCOfOPOf     ,          X~ ~ T,CO.,                           3



