Document of                      ILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2984-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              CFAF
US$1.00                    CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000        -        US$4.8
CFAF 1,000,000    3        US$4,762
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31
MEASURES
1 meter (m)               -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =    0.386 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)           2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)            =    2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)        =    1.308 cubic yards
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER   -     Centre d'Action Regionale pour le Developpement Rural
CATS     -     Cooperatives Agricoles de Type Socialiste
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
FAC      -     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAS      -     Fonds Autonome de Soutien et de Stabilisation des Prix
des Produits Agricoles
FED      -     Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IFAD     -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
GRVC     -     Groupement Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative
GV       -     Groupement Villageois
MDRAC    -     Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
PMEU     -     Project Management and Evaluation Unit
SONACEB  -     Societe Nationale pour la Commercialisation et l'Exportation
du Benin
SONAGRI  -     Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole
SOPROCA  -     Societe Provinciale de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1
to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of Benin
Amount:                SDR 15.7 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.  The proceeds of the credit would be
passed on to the project executing agencies as grants.
Co-lender:             International Fund for Agricultural Developmient (IFAD)
Project
Description:           The main objectives of the proposed project, to be
implemented over the four-year period 1981-85, are to
improve the level of rural incomes and promote exports
by improving and diversifying production of the prin-
cipal crops in the Borgou Province, primariLy cotton and
maize. Specifically, the project provides for expanding
agricultural production through the strengtlnening and
support of institutions and of technical infrastructure,
integrated with improved extension, cooperatives,
training, and social services.
At full development, the project is expected to reach
about 39,000 farm families (about 50% of the total in
Borgou), and to generate an incremental production
of some 10,400 tons of seed cotton, 5,000 tons of maize,
6,000 tons of sorghum, 1,200 tons of groundnuts, and
1,000 tons of cowpeas.
The project's major quantifiable benefit would be
increased production of cotton and foodcrops which, by
the end of the implementation period, is expected to
yield additional real income to participating farmers
(estimated at $7.3 million for cotton and $4 million
for foodcrops, in 1980 prices).  Unquantifiable
benefits would result from the proposed strengthening
of Government s capacity to plan and manage further
rural development activity, and to improve financial
management in the agriculture sector. Additionally,
future benefits would accrue from proposed activities
in foodcrop research, foodcrop seed production, and
improved cultivation practices.
There are no major technological risks in the project,
since all technical proposals have been proven in
other similar West African situations and in Benin
itself. One important risk lies in the area of
organization and financial management in the rural
sector, but this risk would be minimized as a result
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of the solid Government commitment to the project
proposals, and the expected support from a strong
technical assistance team to be selected in agreement
with the Association.
Estimated Costs
(including taxes):                                     US$ Million
Local           Foreign          Total
Inputs (fertilizer, insecticides)       1.3              2.9             4.2
Civil Works                             2.1              0.9             3.0
Vehicles                                0.2              3.0             3.2
Equipment                               0.5              1.3             1.8
Operating Costs                         4.5              3.1             7.6
Personnel                               6.5               -              6.5
Technical Assistance                     -               3.3             3.3
Studies, scholarships                   0.5              1.0             1.5
BASE COST                   15.6             15.5            31.1
Contingencies
Physical                           0.5              0.6             1.1
Price                              4.4              4.4             8.8
Total Contingencies          4.9               5-0             9.9
GRAND TOTAL                 20.5              20.5            41.0
of which taxes               3.2                -              3.2
Total Costs
(net of taxes)               17.3             20.5            37.8
Financing Plan:                                 US$ Million
Local          Foreign         Total         Percentage
IDA          11.0             9.0            20.0 1/           53
IFAD          6.3              7.7           14.0              37
Government    1.8              5.2             7.0             10
1/   Including an advance of US$600,000 under the Project Preparation
Facility.
Estimated                                       (US$ Million)
Disbursements:
FY81     FY82       FY83       FY84     FY85       FY86
Annual                       0       2.3        4.5        5.5      5.1        2.6
Cumulative                  0        2.3        6.8      12.3      17.4       20.0
Economic Rate of Return:  About 21 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report No.: 3157/BEN, February 23, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in
various currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 15.7 million (US$20.0
million) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Borgou Province Rural
Development Project. Additional financing for the project would be provided
by a loan from the International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD) for
the equivalent of US$14.0 million; the IFAD loan would be made to Government
for a term of 50 years including a grace period of 10 years, with a 1 percent
service charge per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN, issued
in May 1979) was the result of a basic economic mission which visited the
country in fall 1977. The paragraphs below are based on this relport, but
include updated information. Annex I provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revolution in 1972 which
brought to power the military Government of President Kerekou. The new regime
immediately took steps to replace foreign dominance in the modern sector and
strengthen the Government's involvement in the agricultural sector. These
measures initially disrupted the economy since there was an inadequate number
of trained Beninese to replace the departing expatriates. Yet, the Government
also pursued conservative financial policies which resulted in budgetary
surpluses and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at less than 7 percent.
4.        Benin has now enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a tight, centrally controlled one-party system. Following
the adoption of a new constitution, Lieutenant Colonel M. Kerekou was recently
confirmed President of the Republic for a three-year term by a newly elected
National Assembly. Mr. Kerekou has in turn appointed a civilian-dominated
Government.
5.        The nation is poised for a period of moderate growth propelled by
major investments in the industrial sector. But Benin's near term prospects
should be assessed with caution, because they are dependent on a few key
factors: strength of the Nigeria and Niger markets, success of key indus-
trial projects and continuation of a prudent budgetary policy.
1/   The text of this section is essentially the same as that included in
the President's Report for the Second Feeder Roads Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 4, 1980.



-2
Recent Economic Developments
6.        With a population of 3.3 million people and a GNP per capita of
$250 (1979) per annum, Benin remains one of the least developed countries as
defined by the U.N. Over the 1975-79 period, the country enjoyed an average
real GDP growth rate of 3.7 percent, and a sound public finance position.
Exports are limited (US$130 million per annum) and little diversified (mainly
oil palm products and cotton). A large resource gap, 20 percent of GDP, is
shown over the 1972-78 period according to Central Bank statistics. The gap
is, in fact, smaller due to the substantial volume of informal, unrecorded
exports, primarily to Nigeria. Also, an important part of the remaining
shortfall is financed by a sustained inflow of workers, remittances and
capital grants, leading to only a modest reliance on medium- and long-term
borrowing.
7.        Agriculture, which employs about 70 percent of the population and
generates 39 percent of GDP, has not substantially increased its output over
the past decade. With respect to export crops, cotton peaked in 1972 at
50,000 tons but has since fallen to around 15,000-20,000 tons. Palm oil
production continued to increase until the mid-1970s, but output has been
reduced since a severe drought in 1976. Institutional changes, insufficient
farmgate prices, lack of financial resources and the absence of technical
assistance are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of export
crops. Foodcrop production, although beset by many of these problems has
fared somewhat better with sustained demand from Nigeria. The situation of
the sector in general is slowly improving under renewed Government support
through producer price increases, less interference with market forces,
and better climatic conditions.
8.        The industrial sector is still undeveloped due to a lack of skilled
manpower, smallness of the local market, and institutional constraints. It
employs less than 2 percent of the labor force, contributes 11 percent to GDP
(1979), and consists mostly of processing of agricultural products and import-
substitution activities. The sector achieved an 11 percent annual growth rate
during 1972-76, but slowed down to 4 percent during 1977-1979 because of a
fall-off in demand from the Nigerian market. Currently, Benin is beginning to
exploit its natural resources through several major industrial projects, the
Onigbolo cement factory (limestone), the Save sugar plant and the Seme off-
shore oil field.
9.        The tertiary sector (mainly transport and commerce) accounts for
41 percent of GDP (1979), and employs almost 40 percent of the labor force.
The port of Cotonou has traditionally provided access to the sea for land-
locked Niger and the western part of Nigeria. The Niger traffic through
Cotonou Port rose from 180,000 tons in 1973 to 529,000 tons in 1977, and
total transit traffic including Nigerian traffic rose to a peak level of
900,000 tons in 1979.
10.       There has been a significant improvement in the central Govern-
ment s current financial situation over the last decade. The chronic current
budget deficits of the 1960s, financed by French Treasury transfers, were



- 3 -
eliminated during the first half of the seventies. During 1976-78 the budget
registered current surpluses averaging a high 23 percent of current revenues.
The Government has controlled the growth of current expenditures, which did
not increase in real terms during the 1972-77 period, and surpluses accrued
from the sudden rise of tax revenues resulting from the growing transit trade
to Nigeria and also, to a lesser extent, from the development of Beninese
industrial activities. Some levelling off or decline in public revenues
related to the Nigeria trade, combined with expected heavy demands on the
Treasury for investment projects, will probably tighten the budget in coming
years. In 1979, Government resources were mobilized for an accelerated
implementation of the large projects, and a deficit equivalent to 12 percent
of total revenues opened up.
11.       Prices have been kept under control, and the overall rate of infla-
tion was limited to 8-9 percent in 1978-79. The increased economic activity
induced by the start-up of major industrial projects is likely to exert
continuous pressure on prices in the next few years, with an inflation rate
of 10-11 percent projected for 1981-82.
12.       The Government is committed to broad-based socio-economic policies,
but a key concern hitherto has been to keep wages and salaries low because
of limited public revenues. In real terms, both public and private sector
salaries have declined. Cash incomes of the farmers may have irLcreased
slightly, the losses resulting from the drop in cotton production probably
having been made up by increased exports of maize to Nigeria. I'hus, Benin
is one of the few countries in Africa where the urban-rural income gap has
not widened in recent years. Education is one of the Government's top
priorities. It is in the process of implementing reforms aimed at both
adjusting the education system to the needs of the country, and reducing the
high cost of formal education which absorbs 33 percent of the Government's
recurrent budget. Health facilities are still poor, and the social indica-
tors for Benin (literacy, life expectancy, etc.) remain well be]Low the
average for low-income developing countries.
The 1978-80 Development Plan
13.       A Three-year Plan (1978-80) was issued in October 1977, setting
out the Government's economic goals.  Its stated objectives are to raise the
general standard of living, to achieve independent national direction of
economic policies, and to promote broad participation in the conception and
implementation of economic and social changes. Investment allocation
in the Plan favors large-scale projects. The major items are: the Cotonou
Port extension (US$50 million) financed by IDA and seven other a4gencies; a
40,000-ton sugar project at Save (US$210 million); a 500,000-tonl cement plant
at Onigbolo (US$159 million); and the Seme offshore oil production project
(US$120 million), estimated to yield a total of about 11 to 20 million
barrels.  These projects together account for some 50 percent of Plan
investment. Work on the Cotonou Port is far advanced. The sugar and cement
projects are joint ventures with the Nigerian Government, with Nigerian
marketing and financing guarantees. The production of sugar, cement and oil
should commence around 1982.



14.       In fact, the rate of implementation of the Three-Year Plan has been
less than 50 percent of Plan objectives. Major difficulties include inade-
quate project preparation and coordination, delays in obtaining foreign finan-
cial commitments, and insufficient control over project execution. Recently,
however, the Government has succeeded in accelerating commitments from foreign
aid donors, and total public investment is likely to be some US$750 million in
the five-year period 1978-82. This represents an increase in the public
investment rate from 10 percent during 1972-77 to 19 percent in 1978-82.
Prospects
15.       The medium-term outlook for economic growth in Benin is moderately
optimistic. Real GDP growth during 1981-85 is expected to average 5-6 percent
per annum. The risks to Benin's economy are a slackening of export demand
and the negative impact of problems which may arise in implementing the large
projects. The benefits from these projects are, in turn, dependent upon price
agreements (specifically with Nigeria in the case of cement and sugar).
Benin's agricultural growth prospects will, moreover, depend on effective
pricing and marketing policies in the rural sector. In the long term, Benin's
growth potential will be limited by a poor resource base to perhaps 4 percent
per year, and even the achievement of this rate will depend on the ability of
Government to channel resources and orient programs (in social and economic
infrastructure, training, marketing, etc.) to the development of food and cash
crops.
16.       Benin's public finance and balance of payments situation may fluc-
tuate more over the next five years than has been the case in the preceding
half-decade. In the mid-1970's conservative public policies led to budget
surpluses and a stable trend in foreign reserves. This partly reflected,
however, the lack of sizable new initiatives in public investment.  The
situation is now changed with the increase in public investment which places
heavy demands on the Treasury for counterpart funding, and steps up the
pace of capital and intermediate goods imports matched by foreign financial
inflows. The balance of payments will undergo fluctuations between now and
1985 under the impact of the major projects. Since the large projects under-
way will heavily influence the trade balance and public finances, their
successful implementation is essential for Benin's medium-term outlook.
17.       Benin's total external debt (including undisbursed), which until
the end of 1979 had remained relatively low (amounting to US$293 million with
a debt service equivalent to 7 percent of the country's exports), is expected
to rise substantially as investments increase and borrowing conditions harden.
The debt service ratio is projected to reach 22-27 percent of exports in the
mid-1980s. This ratio is high, but up to 80 percent of the debt service is
accounted for by the large projects, two of which are guaranteed by Nigeria.



18.       In view of the country's low per capita income, the growing need for
external funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and Benin's
narrow export base, it will be necessary to increase the volume of foreign
financing on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance no
more than 10-15 percent of its overall public investment program; thus foreign
donors should continue to provide a large share of total project costs,
including some financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
19.       To date, the Bank Group has extended eleven credits to Benin, in-
cluding two supplementary credits totalling US$84.8 million. Three of the
credits were for agriculture (17 percent of total lending), five for highway
construction and maintenance (56 percent), and one each for port expansion,
education and small-scale industries development. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank Group operations in Benin, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
20.       IDA's first operation in Benin was the HINVI Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (FY69) which provided for oil palm plantings and foodcrop
development. The project was satisfactorily completed in 1974. As stated
in the Project Performance Audit Report (M78-451 of May 19, 1978,), poor
rainfall delayed palm tree development, while foodcrop production remained
below appraisal estimates mostly because of labor constraints. To overcome
this difficulty, an accelerated program of ox-drawn cultivation was initiated.
Animal traction expanded rapidly, resulting in substantial increases in maize
yields. The project was successful in assisting SONADER, the executing
agency, to continue its good performance and supporting cooperative develop-
ments. The second agricultural credit, the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (FY72)
has also been completed (Project Performance Audit Report M78-353, April 20,
1978). This operation aimed at expanding cotton and foodcrop production in
the Zou-Borgou provinces. Due to frequent changes in Government policy, and
reorganization of institutions within the sector, the project faiLled to
achieve its objective of increasing cotton production. Foodcrop production,
on the other hand, was expanded mainly due to growing demand from neighboring
Nigeria. While the OED Report did not conclude that a larger ma:ize component
in the project would have made it successful, experience suggests that agri-
cultural packages should be more diversified by combining export cash crops
and staple food crops, with the latter included to satisfy farmrers subsistence
needs and to supply domestic markets and those of neighboring countries. It
was clear that careful project monitoring was also necessary to provide a
measure of flexibility to the implementing agency. The third project in the
agricultural sector was the Technical Assistance Project (FY77) designed to
strengthen the country's agricultural institutions, carry out pilot projects,
conduct foodcrop research, and re-train extension services. Although the
project did not fully meet all the set objectives, it did result in satisfac-
tory preparation of two follow-up operations to the Zou-Borgou project (paras.
37 and 38). The proposed project is the first of these; a second project
focussing on the Zou Province is being prepared.



21.       The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector in Benin began
in 1969, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP "Land Transport
Study." This study led to thie financing of a four-year Highway Maintenance
Project in FY69.  The Project Performance Audit for this project (Report No.
M77-758) of October 25, 1977 indicated that significant strengthening of the
Government department then responsible for maintenance operations occurred
under the project.  The Second Highway Project (FY73), co-financed by USAID,
comprised the reconstruction of 320 km (Parakou-Malanville) and short sections
(between Godomey and Bohicon) of Benin's north south trunk road, continuation
of the road maintenance program initiated under the first project, and train-
ing. The project was satisfactorily completed. The rate of return of the
Parakou-Malanville road is estimated at 16 percent versus 13 percent at
appraisal, and 30 percent versus 19 percent at appraisal when including
benefits to Niger from its transit traffic.  The Third Highway Project (FY78)
provided for further rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the Godomey-Bohicon
road and expansion of the maintenance program, including elimination of the
backlog in resurfacing bituminous laterite roads. Some of the bituminous
roads have now deteriorated to the point where full reconstruction is needed,
and Government has asked the Association to cover the related additional costs
under the proposed Fourth Highway Project being planned for Board presentation
later in FY81. This project would aim at improving the efficiency of routine
and periodic maintenance and continuing the elimination of backlog maintenance
of laterite roads.  A feeder road development program was initiated under the
First Feeder Road Project in FY77. This project had been completed, and a
second one to continue the program was approved earlier this fiscal year.
About 300 km of this latter project would serve the purposes of the proposed
Borgou Province Rural Development project.  The major objective of a Port
Project approved in 1978, is to raise the cargo-handling capacity of the port
by providing additional berth (660 m), storage capacity, and technical
assistance to improve port operations. Implementation of the project has
encountered technical problems resulting in cost overruns, and Government is
seeking supplementary financing from the co-lenders.
22.       The First Education Project (FY74) emphasized the non-formal
sector. Its aim was to train rural youth and upgrade the country-s voca-
tional training capacity. The rural youth training component is now being
evaluated to determine whether a follow-up project would be justified.
A Second Education Project (scheduled for FY82) would consist of training
for primary, secondary, and technical school teachers, and production of
didactic materials.
23.       In FY80, IDA granted a Credit to the Banque Beninoise pour le
Developpement (BBD), the national development bank providing medium and
long-term loans to both the public and private sectors. The project is aimed
at providing BBD with resources needed to finance small- and medium-scale
enterprises up to 1982, and strengthening BBD's management and capacity to
promote small- and medium-size investments.
24.        In the future, in addition to the rural development and highway
projects mentioned in paragraphs 20 and 21, IDA is considering participation
in the exploitation of an off-shore oil field at Seme, and in the urban
development of Cotonou.



- 7 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
25.     Agriculture is the most important sector of the Beninese economy.
It employs some 70 percent of the active population, and provides nearly
55 percent of the country s total foreign exchange earnings.
26.     Benin's approximately 350,000 farm families work holdings that
average 1.2 ha in the densely populated southern provinces of Atlantique,
Mono and Oueme, and 2.8 ha in the sparsely populated northern provinces of
Atacora and Borgou. About 18 percent of available land is cultivated in
the south with two cropping seasons, against only 4 percent in the north
with one cropping season. Cultivation is usually by traditional techniques,
and yields are low. The sector is predominantly subsistence-oriented,
producing yams, manioc, sorghum, maize, beans, and small quantities of rice.
The main cash crops are palm products, cotton and groundnuts, while maize is
both a subsistence and cash crop. Livestock production has grown in recent
years, with a population now estimated at about 800,000 head of cattle,
2 million sheep and goats, and half-a-million pigs. Cattle production is
concentrated in the northern provinces of Atacora and Borgou. Sheep and
goats exist in all areas, and pigs predominate in the south.
27.       Borgou Province, the project area in the north-east of Benin,
covers 51,000 km2 or 45 percent of the country's total land area. Its
population is estimated at about 490,000 (1979 census). Historically, the
Borgou Province has produced nearly 60 percent of the national cotton crop,
40 percent of sorghum, and 20 percent of rice and beans. About 30 percent
of Borgou's estimated 68,000 farm families grow cotton (0.6 ha c,n average per
family) and most grow maize or groundnuts as cash crops (1.5 ha), with the
rest in subsistence crops (0.7 ha). About 70 percent of farm faLmilies own
the estimated half-a-million cattle in the province.
28.       Although endowed with a favorable resource base for agriculture,
growth of the sector has been sluggish for the past decade. The main con-
straints on growth have been institutional and economic. Modern cotton
production which was introduced in Benin in 1963 under bilateral assistance
from France, progressed at a commendable rate--5,000 tons in 1965 to 50,000
tons in 1972. Production subsequently fell, reaching a low of about 14,000
tons in 1976/77, despite efforts made under the joint IDA-FAC Zou-Borgou Rural
Development project (FY72) (para. 20). This decline was partly due to sweeping
political changes in 1972 which brought about a fundamental restructuring of
the sector, ending all expatriate technical assistance and creating havoc in
the organization of cotton production. Simultaneously, by 1974, low producer
prices for seed cotton, poor yields, high labor requirements, and input
delivery problems made cotton unattractive to farmers who switched rapidly to
maize production. Maize production has continued to expand, fueled by high
demand for unofficial exports to Nigeria, and rice production, although still
relatively small, has grown in the past five years due in part to recent
irrigation schemes. Production of most other foodcrops has however stagnated,
although statistics are considered unreliable in most cases.



29.       The Government has been increasingly aware of the priority of the
agriculture sector for the country's socio-economic development. This was
reflected in the country's Three-Year Development Plan adopted in 1977 which
foresaw investments of over US$300 million (one-third of the total Plan
investment) in agriculture (including agro-industries), and in Government's
emphasis in recent years on institution-building and project preparation.
Government policy for rural development has three main objectives: firstly, to
achieve self-sufficiency in food production by gradually eliminating food
imports and promoting foodcrop exports to other African countries; secondly,
to develop domestic markets by increasing incomes of the rural population and
by linking agricultural production with agro-industries; and thirdly, to
provide an economic surplus to help finance imports of capital goods. These
objectives are to be achieved through improving productivity from greater use
of inputs, developing foodgrain storage capacity, expanding public support for
production and marketing, increasing the availability of credit, developing
agro-industries, and expanding rural infrastructure. This is considered a
sound overall strategy, although frequent Government reorganization has
constrained the identification, formulation, and execution of projects.
30.       Responsibility for the implementation of rural development policy
rests with the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC)
which controls national agricultural policy through three directorates, and
the Ministry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries. Regional production
efforts are the responsibility of the CARDERs (Centres d'Action Regionale
pour le Developpement Rural) located in each of the six provinces. The
CARDERs are responsible to the Ministry of Rural Development, and group the
regional representatives of the central directorates of agriculture, live-
stock, production, forestry, rural engineering, and fishing. The CARDER
directors also act as advisors to the prefects of the provinces, who chair
their Boards of Trustees. The CARDERs provide all agricultural inputs and
extension services, maintain some rural roads, and handle official primary
marketing of selected crops. Within each Province, the CARDER has a District
organization under the direction of a "Responsable du Developpement Rural"
(RDR), who supervises and directs the services provided by the CARDER at the
level of the communes and villages. The CARDERs represent a major change in
the basic philosophy of providing extension and input supply and marketing
services. Prior to their creation in 1976, these services and related
activities were handled on a crop-by-crop basis. Now CARDERs have responsi-
bility for provision of all these services for all crops within the Province.
However, since their creation, the CARDERs have suffered from lack of funds
and shortage of adequately trained management and field staff. In addition,
their organization is cumbersome and inefficient. Corrective measures would
be taken under the proposed project to increase the effectiveness of the
CARDER-BORGOU as executing agency (para. 42).
31.       A cooperative movement commenced in 1971 with the creation of
village groups (Groupements Villageois, or GVs) with the objective of
coordinating the provision of inputs and marketing services for groups of
cotton growers. Inputs were provided on credit, which was recovered at
the time of cotton marketing. The number of GVs in the Borgou Province



expanded to 344 by 1975, and fees earned from their cotton-marketing activi-
ties were used for community development projects. Following political
changes in 1974, Government decided to reduce emphasis on cottoni production,
and the creation of new GVs ceased. In their place, Government encouraged
in 1977, a new type of village group of about 30 members each, called Groupe-
ment Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative (GRVCs), still based on individual
ownership and cultivation, but with a higher degree of centralization of
services supervising farmers' cotton and foodcrop production, as well as
providing more input, credit and marketing help than was the case for GVs. The
CARDERs were to promote their formation and their operations. The GRVCs
were well received by farmers, and Government decided to carry its policy of
collectivization even further by the creation of Cooperatives A1ricoles de
Type Socialiste (CATS) as an experimental alternative. CATS were based on
communal ownership of land, equipment, work and remuneration, and received
special intensified extension and support services. However, CATS were
adopted reluctantly by farmers, and their total membership, which was 1,545
in 1978/79 (averaging 62 per CATS), declined to 772 (averaging 18) in
1979/80. Indications are that this decline will continue. Government now
believes that the CATS movement went too far in centralizing agricultural
production, and recognizes that its support of the cooperative mnovement in
agriculture should concentrate on the GRVCs which, in addition to small
farmers, would be the main focus of the proposed project.
32.       Various other national programs are executed by semi-autonomous
State Enterprises (Societes d'Etat), five of which are under the general
supervision of MDRAC: SONAFOR (forestry), SONIAH (irrigation and water
development), SONAFEL (fruits and vegetables), SONAPECHE (fisheries) and
SONAGRI. SONAGRI was established in 1976 as the successor to SONACO, an
executing agency under the Zou-Borgou project. SONAGRI is responsible for
the import and distribution of all fertilizers and insecticides needed in
the agriculture sector, and for marketing and ginning seed cotton. SONAGRI
has experienced some financial difficulties which have hampered its effec-
tiveness, but for which remedies are currently being undertaken by the Gov-
ernment (para. 44). Three other state organizations are responsible for the
processing and marketing of export crops: SONACEB is responsible for the
export of all agricultural products except oil palm; palm products are
processed by SOBEPALH and marketed by SONICOG. Government's participation
in foodcrop marketing has been through the Regie d'Approvisionnement et de
Commercialisation (RAC) which has recently been reorganized, and is now
under the control of newly established marketing companies in each province,
SOPROVAs (vegetables and livestock) and SOPROCAs (other agricultural produce).
The private sector handles almost all foodcrop marketing, and is efficient.
Only marginal quantities (about 10 percent) are bought by marketing companies
at fixed prices for Government enterprises such as feed-lots and breweries.
Agricultural research formerly under the direction of the French Research
Institutes, IRHO (oil palm and coconut), IRCT (cotton) and IRAT (foodcrops),
is now run by the Ministry of Higher and Technical Education and is organized
into a number of Research Units with responsibility for specific crops.
Ongoing research has already produced encouraging results in the form of
improved cotton and foodcrop varieties.



- 10 -
33.         Three financial institutions are of importance for the agriculture
sector. The agricultural credit agency--CNCA (Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole) directed by a national committee composed of representatives of
MDRAC, the Ministries of Finance and Commerce and from the various State
agencies extends credit to state enterprises, the CARDERs, and to individuals
in association with regional and local credit organizations, the Caisses Re-
gionales de Credit Agricole Mutuel and the Caisses Locales de Credit Agricole
Mutuel. CNCA has had responsible management to date, and its performance,
although restricted by low volume, has been efficient. The Autonomous Stabi-
lization Fund (FAS) is an agricultural price stabilization fund created to
protect producers against fluctuations in export crop prices, including that
of cotton, and to administer Government's support program for inputs. For
price stabilization, FAS pays to or receives from the exporting agency (e.g.
SONACEB for cotton) an amount sufficient to equalize the unit price received
in world markets with a target price equal to the prices paid to producers
plus processing and marketing costs. The total costs are tabulated in the
crop's bareme, which is a statement of standardized costs of each step in
the production and marketing chain. It has been difficult to establish this
bareme because of the absence of any detailed cost accounting. At present,
farmers are being paid out of the bareme a reasonable price for their produc-
tion of seed cotton; but the remuneration to SONACEB is overly high, while the
share of SONAGRI and the CARDERs is grossly underestimated. This has had a
severe effect on the financial stability of these iatter institutions, and on
their ability to carry out their functions efficiently.
34.        FAS also pays Government's contribution to the cost of purchase and
distribution of fertilizers and insecticides. In the case of cotton, SONAGRI
imports and distributes the inputs to CARDERs, who subsequently distribute
them to farmers--usually with seasonal interest-free credit. In principle,
once acquisition and distribution costs are known and farmers payments are
collected, FAS is expected to pay the difference between acquisition plus
distribution costs, and farmers' payments on behalf of Government. However,
the system has not worked well, since SONAGRI and the CARDERs have not been
able, owing to poor accounting, to establish the real cost of distributing
inputs as a basis for reimbursement. Also, CARDERs have had a poor record of
recovering credit from farmers, which leaves an additional financing gap that
FAS is unwilling to fill. As a result, SONAGRI and the CARDERs have become
heavily indebted to their creditors. Since the financial stability of
SONAGRI and the CARDERs is crucial for successful project execution, SONAGRIfs
and CARDERS' past debts have been transferred to the Government's debt amorti-
zation agency for repayment. Furthermore, Government would undertake reforms
in the financial arrangements in the cotton subsector beginning with the
1981/82 campaign, including a staged increase in producer prices for seed
cotton, a reduction of its annual contribution to financing the costs of
fertilizer and insecticides, and a revision of the cotton bareme based on cost
accounting information (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.04 (a),
(b) and (c)).
35.        The National Pricing Commission (Commission Nationale des Prix)
sets farmgate prices for major crops as part of the baremes negotiated at
the beginning of each agricultural campaign. State enterprises have the



- 11 -
sole franchise for the main export crops, and these function fairly well
since few alternative markets are open for smallholders. Official prices
are also announced for maize, sorghum, and certain other foodcrops; however,
unofficial foodcrop prices determined on the open market are generally higher
than official prices. Government has made several attempts to participate in
foodcrop marketing, and has installed considerable storage capacity and equip-
ment for this purpose. However, with the relatively efficient unofficial
channels available, further investment in official foodcrop marketing would
not be a high priority.
36.       Professional agricultural training is offered at the School of
Agriculture of the National University for engineers, and in three agricul-
tural polytechnics (one of which is at Ina in Borgou Province) for extension
agents. Low annual output of each of these categories relative t:o the
national requirement is a serious problem, and is exacerbated by inadequate
facilities and insufficient operating funds which limits field performance.
This is a major constraint to accelerating rural development, and is re-
flected in the current quality of the CARDER-BORGOU staff. Although long-
term remedies are currently under discussion between Government, the Bank
and UNESCO, the proposed project would finance essential training for
extension agents and farmers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       Bank Group strategy and operations in Benin-s agriculture sector
have been designed to help Government meet its objectives of increased
production of cotton and foodcrops, with related efforts in needed institu-
tion-building, and provision for production inputs, credit, and rural infra-
structure (paras. 20 and 28). This strategy has been implemented over recent
years primarily in the Zou-Borgou area which covers most of the country, and
where most of domestic cotton and foodcrops are produced. However, only
limited success was achieved in meeting the desired objectives, primarily
because the institutional and policy setting in the sector were not always
appropriate. In recognition of the need to address the institutional dif-
ficulties on a broad front, the Association in 1977 financed a Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 716-BEN) which was designed to strengthen the major
agricultural agencies, to establish effective pricing policies, to prepare
sound proposals for investment projects, and generally to try to regain farmer
confidence in further development activities. While not meeting all these
objectives, the technical assistance effort made some progress towards improv-
ing the development of agricultural research, seed production, its well as
strengthening the operations of CARDER-Borgou. It also allowed satisfactory
preparation of the project proposed in this report (para. 20).
38.       The proposed project has been designed around the lessons learned
from previous operations. Within the broad objective of rehabilitating
production of cotton and foodcrops, the project concentrates on a narrower
ecological and socio-economic zone than earlier operations, and makes
provision for more systematic monitoring. Government commitment to the



- 12 -
project design and to plans for its implementation have been demonstrated
throughout the preparation effort, which was the responsibility of the
Ministry of Rural Development. The project was appraised in May 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1981. The Beninese delega-
tion was led by the Minister of Rural Development. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3157-BEN dated February 24, 1981 is being circulated separately.
Annex III contains supplementary project data.
39.       The project's main objectives are to improve the level of rural
incomes and promote exports by expanding production of the principal crops in
the Borgou Province. These objectives would be achieved through the following
principal actions:
(a) strengthening of the CARDER-Borgou, the proposed executing agency,
through reorganization, technical assistance, systematic staff
training and retraining, provision of vehicles, office space and
equipment, and organization of a monitoring and evaluation unit;
(b) strengthening of farmer support services (extension, input supply,
credit and applied research) through improved cooperatives, farmer
training, and provision for improved seeds and credit for fertilizer
insecticides and ox-drawn equipment;
(c) strengthening of SONAGRI, through improved financial management,
provision of transport vehicles, operational support and technical
assistance, to better organize cotton marketing and ginning;
(d) infrastructure development, bottomland rehabilitation, and well
construction; and
(e) consulting services to carry out a bottomland survey, crop develop-
ment study, and preparation of a possible follow-up project.
Project Implementation
40.       The project would be carried out over the four-year period 1981-85
by the CARDER-Borgou, whose Director would become Project Manager. The
employment of a Project Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 7.01 (c)). He would report directly to the Minister of
MDRAC in Porto Novo. For input supply and primary seed cotton marketing,
CARDER-Borgou would establish close cooperation with SONAGRI. Since the
project's headquarters at Parakou is more than 400 km away from Cotonou and
Porto Novo, the project would have a small coordination unit located in
Cotonou, to permanently represent its interests and take care of the antici-
pated heavy and frequent contacts with Ministries, other Government institu-
tions, and suppliers.
41.       The project would concentrate its efforts on the GRVC type of
cooperative. The objective would be to expand the block cultivation



- 13 -
system already proven successful in Borgou Province, thus increasing the
potential and efficiency of the extension services, and facilitating the
"Training and Visit" system introduced under the Technical Assistance
Project. With support of the improved extension services, the number of
GRVCs is expected to increase from 100 to about 500 during the project
implementation period, both from creating new ones and upgrading existing
GVs which now number about 350. Other cotton producers would continue to
receive assistance through the remaining GVs. Thus, the area of cotton
fields cultivated in blocks would increase from 1,500 ha (8 percent) to
about 10,000 ha or 50 percent. This trend is expected to continue after
project completion, as smallholders are influenced by positive results of
demonstrations in their localities.
42.        The CARDER-Borgou has operated in the past through seven divisions
organized in 24 sections headquartered at Parakou, all currently lacking
sufficiently trained personnel. Of the 660 CARDER-Borgou employees, only 32
have professional training, and the 472 field officers generally lack up-to-
date training or experience. The CARDER organization is weak, cumbersome and
inefficient. It requires strengthening and reorganization. Headquarters
management would be strengthened by the addition of two Deputy Project
Managers (one technical, one administrative and financial), and operations
would be decentralized. Duplicate services would be combined, reducing the
number of divisions from seven to four: administration and finance, extension
and training, technical, and rural works.  Superfluous subsector chiefs and
extension agents would be deployed to other assignments, while the number of
input supply, credit, and home economics officers would be increaLsed at farmer
level to give better attention to these hitherto neglected services.
43.        Field organization of extension services would be reorganized under
the Responsable du Developpement Rural in each of the province-s 14 districts,
with adjustments in staff so that each subsector chief would be responsible
for about 2-3 communes (15 villages each, or about 170 farms versus 300 at
present). The extension agents would continue to implement the "Training and
Visit" system. Each district would also be staffed with specialized extension
agents in the areas of home economics, adult literacy, cooperatives, and
animal traction. As an incentive, by December 31, 1981, a system of bonuses
based on individual performance for extension agents and subsection chiefs
within the CARDER-Borgou would be introduced, and staff salaries increased to
a level comparable to those paid to state enterprise employees. Upgrading
field organization by providing material support and retraining would be the
overall responsibility of the Technical Deputy Project Manager at CARDER-
Borgou headquarters. CARDER-Borgou management would introduce a system of
annual work plans and associated budgets for each section and district as the
basis for project implementation. Introduction of this system, and submission
of the first such work plan for 1981/82, would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement Section 7.01 (d)). Assur-
ances were obtained that the subsequent annual work plans and budgets would be
sent to IDA for comments by October 31 of the preceding year (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 4.07 (ii)).



- 14 -
44.       Major emphasis would be placed on the timely acquisition and
distribution of production inputs.  Supplies of fertilizer and insecticides
for cotton would be distributed by SONAGRI to the level of communal stores
throughout the project area. These stores would be built or repaired with
project funds. To carry out its tasks, SONAGRI s operations would be
strengthened through reorganization and provision of transport equipment and
technical assistance. CARDER-Borgou would assume ownership of the inputs,
paying SONAGRI with credit arranged through CNCA. Credit for seasonal inputs
would then be provided to farmers by CARDER-Borgou's credit administrative
staff. CARDER-Borgou credit staff would recover the credit at the time and
place where cotton is marketed, a system which has succeeded in assuring high
recovery rates where applied elsewhere in West Africa.  Initially, only
farmers producing cotton would be eligible for credit until experience shows
that the security of cotton-marketing system is not required to assure credit
recovery; however, any farmer could buy fertilizer and insecticides for cash.
Equipment for ox-drawn cultivation would also be made available on medium-
term credit, and CARDER-Borgou staff would acquire the equipment directly
from local manufacturers.
45.       Agronomic and varietal research, which has shown encouraging results
to date, would be pursued at Lie fese.irch stations at Ina and at substations
throughout the province. It would continue to be directed and conducted
principally by Beninese staff with good basic training, supported with techni-
cal assistance staff. Multiplication and preparation of seed for distribution
to farmers would be managed by the project Seed Multiplication Unit, using an
existing farm refurbished and expanded for the purpose. Improved seed would
be distributed to farmers through the extension service, initially on a bag-
for-bag exchange basis. By December 31, 1983, the Government would institute
charges for improved seed for food crops, sufficient to cover production and
distribution costs (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.05). Over-
all coordination of the research, seed multiplication and distribution would
be the responsibility of CARDER-Borgou Technical Division.
46.       The CARDER-Borgou rural works division-s capacity to construct
and maintain small dams for flood control and water retention in dry season
and community wells, and to carry out bottomland development, would be
re-established under the project. The proposed project would provide for
construction of about 130 wells and development of about 500 ha of bottomland.
Villagers would provide the necessary labor.
47.        The project would provide for 34 man-years of specialist tech-
nical personnel whose skills are currently unavailable in Benin, to fill
eleven positions for periods of two to four years. Some of these posts
would be line positions. Assurances were obtained from Government that
the experience and qualification of incumbents of these positions would be
at all times acceptable to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sec-
tions 4.03 and 4.04 (a)). This would include: (i) for CARDER-Borgou the
Technical Deputy Project Manager; the Financial Controller; the Chief



- 15 -
Accountant; the Seeds Production Specialist; the Input Supply, Credit and
Marketing Specialist; and the TrainiLg Specialist; (ii) for SONAGRI, the
Financial Controller, and the Chief Accountant; (iii) f.or MDRAC the Agro-
Economist in Project Monitoring and Evaluation; and (iv) for Research, the
Cotton Research Specialist, and the Fooderop Research Specialist. The
appointment of qualified assistants to the technical assistance personnel
would be required to ensure effective replacement on completion of each
technical assistance contract; the Government has given assurances to this
effect (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04 (b)).  Onte of the
major tasks of Llte LechnLical assistance would thus be the in-service Lraining
of prospective Beninese assistants, a process which would be monitored by
the project's training specialist.  Short-term consultancies for SCNAGRI and
agricultural research, totalling about three-man years, would also be pro-
vided. The project would provide for 3U man-months of consultants services
for carrying out a bottomland inventory and crop development study, to assess
the investment potential of some 2,400 ha of bottomland, and for the prepara-
tion of a possible follow-up project.
48.        By September 1, 1981, a project monitoring and evaluation unit
(PMEU) would be established at Parakou to monitor both the progress of
project execution, and the impact of project activities on farmers in the
province (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06 (d) (i)). Basic
information on project inputs and outputs would be secured periodically from
normal operational reports within the executing agency, with impact informa-
tion coming from field surveys of an adequate sample of farmers. Such infor-
mation is necessary to give project management the necessary flexibility to
adjust operations in response to new developments. This information would
also later serve as a basis for evaluating the project and its components,
leading to recommendations for changes in approach and the identification of
components for a possible future project. The first priority of the interna-
tionally recruited head of the PMEU would be to agree with project management
and MDRAC on key indicators and methodology required to monitor project
execution. By September 1, 1981, a detailed PMEU work program would be
submitted to IDA for review and comments, and implemented thereafter (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06 (d) (ii)).
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
49.        Project costs (including taxes) are estimated at US$41.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$20.5 million (50 percent). Taxes
would amount to US$3.2 million equivalent. Included in the project cost
is the refinancing of an advance by 1DA from the Project Preparation Faci-
lity  (PPF) in the amount of US$600,000.  Project costs are based on mid-1980
prices.  Estimated costs include physical contingencies of 5 percent for
all costs (except personnel), and expected locai and international price
increases applied on base line costs plus physical contingencies compounded
yearly over the project implementation period. Price contingencies for
fertilizer, insecticides, chemicals and gasoline are based on World Bank
projected price increases for petroleum. Physical and price contingencies
amount to 32 percent of project base cost net of taxes and duties. Average
man-montlh cost of consulting services is estimated at US$10,300 including



- 16 -
fees, out-station allowance, and international transport, housing and subsis-
tence, and company overhead and profits.
50.       Project expenditures would be financed pari passu by IDA (US$20.0
million), the International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD) (US$14.0
million), and the Government (US$3.8 million) representing 53, 37 and 10
percent respectively of total project cost net of taxes and duties.  The IFAD
loan would be made for a term of 50 years including a ten-year grace period,
with a one percent service charge per annum. Fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 7.01 (a)).
51.       The external financing contribution would be channeled through the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), which is the Government-s agency for
handling official foreign financing. Funds would be passed on to the project
executing agencies as grants, since these agencies are not fully financially
autonomous (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01 (b)).  Foreign
funds and Government-s contribution would be passed on to CARDER-Borgou to
cover purchases and distribution costs of production inputs (US$7.4 million),
the costs of its management, operations, specialized units, technical assis-
tance and studies (US$29.5 million); and to SONAGRI to cover the costs of its
primary marketing unit, technical assistance (US$4.1 million). For the pur-
chase and distribution of production inputs, SONAGRI would receive from
FAS, not later than October 31 of each year, the amount of Government subsidy.
The CARDERs obtain credit from CNCA to purchase inputs from SONAGRI and repay
this credit from recovery of cotton sales. To facilitate this advance funding,
CARDER-Borgou would obtain short-term credit from CNCA which would be reim-
bursed the following year from farmers' credit repayments. For the purchase of
animal traction equipment and sprayers, CARDER-Borgou would make similar
arrangements directly with suppliers using CNCA financing. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that it would ensure the availability to SONAGRI,
by October 31 of each year, of funds necessary for purchase of production
inputs (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 (a)). To establish
working capital for the rest of the project's operations other than the
purchase of inputs, Government would open an Advance Account (Project Account)
in the name of CARDER-Borgou at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, with an
initial deposit of CFAF 250 million (US$1.2 million) (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.02(b)(i)). This would be a condition of Credit effective-
ness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). The Government
would thereafter replenish the Advance Account quarterly with sufficient funds
to meet expenditures for the following quarterly period (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(b)(ii)).
52.        Short-term credit in kind, covering 100 percent of the sale
value of fertilizer and insecticides would be granted to cotton producers,
and would be repaid annually. Cotton growers would also be eligible
for credit on 100 percent of the cost of sprayers, repayable in two equal
annual installments.  Animal traction equipment would be available on



credit, covering 75 percent of its value, witLh repayment in three annual
installments.  Credit would be recovered by credit agents employed by
CARDER-Borgou at. the same timne as cotton is marketed at the cotton marketing
points. Until a reliable alternative recovery system is developed, iaputs
would be made available to non-cottoro  producers through cash sales only.
53.        Present Governmeat policy ic to make no interest charge on seasonal
credit for insecticides and fertilizers.  Both SONAGRI and the CARDERP-Borgou
have suffered as a result of this, since they have had to pay for credit
administration out of other revenues. Government has agreed to introduce,
beginning with the 1981/82 cotton czmpaign, an interest rate charge of not
less than 11 percent for seasonal credit for inDuts and medium-term credit for
animal-drawn equipment. This rate represents the rediscount rate available to
CNCA at the Central Bank of West African states--8 percent--augmented by 1
percent to cover credit administration costs of CNCA, plus 2 percent to
approximately cover operating costs of CARDER's credit administration in the
field; this spread is considered adequate at least for the early ph1ases of the
project, but would be adjusted as necessary in subsequent years in acrordance
with criteria agreed between the Government and the Association (draft Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, Section 5X04 (b)).
Procurement
54.        Contracts of US$100,000 or more would be awarded through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelinLes. Goods and
services so purchased would be expected to total about US$9.0 million, of
which IDA would finance US$5.2 million, and would include purchases of
vehicles, fertilizer and insecticides. Purchases would be grouped whenever
possible in order to derive maximum beniefits from bulk procurement. Inter-
national tenders for cotton fertilizers and insecticides would be invited
for total quantities required for the project, including the incremental
amounts to be financed under the credit; in addition to allowing the lowest
possible prices for these items, the procedure is considered necessary to
simplify the administration of procurement, and to ensure that suffEicient
inputs are available on time.  Assurances to this effect were obtained from
Government during negotiations (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.08). Contracts for vehicles, equipment and supplies of more than US$50,000
but below $100,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding pro-
cedures (US$2.6 million, of which IDA US$1.4 million), while those of less than
US$50,000 would be on the basis of quotations from not fewer than three
reputable suppliers (US$1.4 million, of which IDA us$o.5 million). Contracts
for construction of buildings and dams (US$3.0 million, of which IDA US$1.3
million) would be too small and geographically dispersed to attract interna-
tional bidders, and consequently would be awarded following locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for short-term
studies and training courses abroad (US$2.1 million, of which IDA 1.3 million)
would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. About
US$18.9 million (IDA US$7.9 million) of project expenditures, consisting



-~ 1-8 -
mainly of incremental operating costs and local staff salaries, would not be
appropriate for bidding procedures. Technical assistance with a total value
of US$4.0 million (IDA us$2.4 millior) would be engaged following procedures
acceptable to the Associatlon.
Disbursements
55.       The proposed IDA credit and IFAD loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 100 percent of inacremental expenditures for inputs;
(b) 100 percent of CARDER-Borgou vehicles, 72 percent for CARDER-
Borgou civil works, equipment, local personnel and other
operating costs;
(c) 100 percent of SONAGRI marketing unit vehicles, and 72 percent
of SONAGRI's marketing unit local personnel and operating
costs;
(d) 100 percent of costs of consultants- services, studies and
scholarships;
(e) 100 percent for refunding of the amount due as of the effective
date of the Credit under the advances for project preparation
(US$600,000).
Audits and Reporting Requirements
56.       CARDER's and SONAGRI's accounts would be audited by independent
auditors selected in agreement with, and under terms of reference acceptable
to IDA, and their reports would be furnished to IDA within four months after
the close of each financial year. CARDER and SONAGRI would also submit
quarterly progress reports to Government and to IDA showing actual and
budgeted expenditures, statements of progress achieved, and objectives for
the forthcoming quarter by each project component. These quarterly reports
would contain summary financial information indicating the levels of its
short-term borrowings and of any outstanding receivables from Government or
other bodies with respect to budgetary allocations for the project and
subsidies on production inputs.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The major quantifiable benefit of the project would be expansion of
both cotton and foodcrops production, as a result of the package of farmer
support services to be introduced. By the end of the project's implementation
period, production is expected to double to 26,000 t in the case of cotton,
and to increase by 50 percent in the case of foodcrops, as a result of higher
yields and larger areas being cultivated. This increased production would



- 19 -
yield additional annual real income for farmers--valued in 1980 prices at
US$7.3 million from cotton and US$4.0 million from foodcrops--and increased
foreign exchange for Government, as the world price for cotton is expected to
increase significantly in real terms. By the end of the project implementa-
tion period, about 39,000 farm families with current net incomes of about
US$488 per year (US$70 per capita) could expect to earn net incoimes of about
US$800 (US$114 per capita), or an increase in real terms of about 65 percent.
Family net cash income would increase from about US$90 per year to about
US$400 per year. Because of the relatively narrow range of farm-size and
family sizes throughout the province, these increases would be well distri-
buted among the population.
58.       Among the unquantifiable project benefits would be an improvement in
the capacity of Government institutions to manage and plan further rural deve-
lopment activity, and in their financial management capabilities. In addition,
a firm basis of adaptive foodcrop and cotton research, and seed production,
would have been established to provide a sound basis for further development.
59.       The estimated economic return to the proposed project is about 21
percent, when all project costs leading to production increases at the farm
level (about 84 percent of project base costs) and farm level benefits are
taken into account over a 20-year period. This rate of return is rather
sensitive to changes in real costs and benefits, since a 20 percent rise in
projected real costs or a 15 percent decline in projected real benefits would
lower the return to about 10 percent.
60.       There are no major technological risks in the project since all
technical proposals have proven in other West African situations to be
capable of initiating a recovery in production. The principal risk is that
poor organization, rapid staff turnovers, and financial mismanagement may
occur and lead to under-performance. To minimize this risk, technical and
organizational training programs would be provided for all stafi, salaries
would be increased at least to the levels of state enterprises, and a bonus
system would be worked out for sub-section chiefs and extension agents. It
would also be critical that a strong technical assistance team work in both
line as well as in advisory posts; however, past experience has showr the
difficulty of recruiting foreign experts who would be both technically compe-
tent and capable of establishing productive working relationships with
Beninese counterparts. For the proposed project, this risk is minimized
by the fact that responsible agencies have expressed considerab:Le interest
in the technical assistance component, and by the close consultations which
have taken place between Government and the Association in preparation of
terms of reference and selection of consultants following an international
search.
61.       However, the most significant  risk lies in the area of financial
management. Presently, financial flows in the cotton sector are directed by
a bareme which is an agreed schedule of standard costs, but which currently
bears little resemblance to the real cost structure of the sector. Project
success would, therefore, depend on Government-s correcting several identified
problems with the bareme, its use, and the relationship between principal



- 20 -
participants in the cotton sector (paras. 33 and 34). In this respect,
Government has in fact already initiated a review of component costs of
the bareme with a view to defining corrective measures to improve sector
performance, and is expected to ultimately implement these measures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness included in the Development Credit
Agreement would be: (i) execution and delivery of the IFAD Loan Agreement,
and fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of that Agreement;
(ii) initial deposit by the Government of CFAF 250 million (US$1.2 million) in
an Advance Account to be opened by the Government at CAM in the name of
CARDER-Borgou and to operate as a revolving fund for all expenditures under
the Project other than for inputs; (iii) appointment of a Project Manager
acceptable to the Association; and (iv) the Association's approval of CARDER-
Borgou's proposed annual work plan and associated budget for the 1981/82
cotton campaign.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.           I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
March 12, 1981



- 21 -                                   Annex 1
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
BENIN                        REFERENCE (ROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - HDST RECENT ESTIMATE)"
TOTAL            112.6
AGRICULTURAL      33. 0                              HOST RECENT           LW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab   1970 /b ESTIMATE Ab  AIRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOU1TH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 90.0       120.0    250.0                 260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     39.0        42.0      56.0                 80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
OPULATION, MID-YEAR (HILLIONS)      2. 1        2.6       3.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.5        12.6      14.0                 17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RH.                      19.0        23.0      29.0                 27.4                    61.7
PER SQ. K1. AGRICULTURAL LAND    62.0        77.0      97.0                 82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.2        44.9      46.0                 44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                        53.2        52.6      51.3                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND AMOVE                  2.6         2.5       2.7                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.6       2.8                  2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             6.0         5.5       4.2                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        49.0      49.0                 47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0        22.0      19.0                 19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3         3.3       3.3                  3.2                    3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         95.0       101.0      92.0                 91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQIUIREMENTS)                 93.0        96. 0     98.0                 90.2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.0        53.0      51.0                 53.0                   53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      14.0        15.0      13.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0      27.0                 27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0      46.0                 45. 3                  50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      20.0                 23.2                    31.0
URBAN                              ..          ..      42.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      16.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        14.0        ..                 28.9
URWAN                              ..        83.0        ..                 67.0
RURAL                                         1.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        47000.0    28920.0  26908.0                30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      2910.0   3007.0                5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           748.0       847.0    736.0                1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                              ..          ..     209.0
RURAL                              ..          ..   3876.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        302      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUEMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 22 -                                             Annex 1
Pase 2
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4OES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)N   _
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  A     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADjUsTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 26.0         40.0      58.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  38.0        56.0       80.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEMALE                15.0        25.0       37.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          5.0      11.0                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2.0         8.0       16.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0        6.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  13.0           4. 1      2.1                   6. 8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        44.0       48.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          23.0         26.0      31.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         8.0           ..       *-                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          4.0       5.4                   3.6                     28. e
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.0         32.0      48.0                  31. 5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           .,           ,.       0. 1                  1.58
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
.ditLREST") Ct,.-aLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0          1.0       0. 3                  4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2           0.4        ..                    ..                      0. 7
LABOR FOR
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1048.9       1285.7    1530.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   45.1         44.9      44.9                  33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              54.0         49.7      47.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.9         11.8      46.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2         49.0      46.4                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 57.1         54.9      51.0                  55. 1                    48.4
FEMALE                               45.5         43.3      42. 1                 29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY hATIO               0.9          1.0       1. 1                  1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.4/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.5/c
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.8/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PEE CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      84.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      82.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Population.
Most recant eatimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-23-                                                                                       ANNEX I
Page 3
ltP7-ITflO5It -OPSOCIdi, -IOOtAbttR
Not..:  Although the data are draw    f o  suce    enrly   dgdth  e                      nut1ioitetir- and reibe ft ehood  leo be noted tint they may no  be anis-
.........(ot :8thbi  beas.     fth.    nho  eodrts dnfation-  uAM  terr                     d bydifrt cut Iosi  collecting the dunn.  Tht do.t                      ,
rhbes,orfb  odeeo h        ucso  tancd.i.cnnted,ad  hnatniocetin  _Jo.  diff .                                       hbete... coutres
The       ...eeocg.t.pe  o(1) thn  ea  cooco  rop of the subjeof rooy and (2)  a -onoy grouP niith no hwbt higher  -verog  tacom   thnt the coutrygru
of the solrccony eep  for "Capitsl burpio  Oil fooee    group nh-r  'iddlainom   dorb-   Air, icean   Middle tent" is cho-a  beonuer of etrng
eucl-culmininffoitiel.   crirefoencegrop darnte avaage  repoplbnion e-ightod arithmetic  _oses foeo th dicutor und show   oely eheon
baerhof c   i    onre   ineyu    a   ot    rta    ltd t_r   finre the.oaaeo   otre  aog te                                   diot-rs dePeods on tin evnibiiiin of
daasdO   o   nfr,cuio   cnh   nrin   nrltngneae   fnnidctrc  soio                                                   hs   rrgsa    ny   sfla   npnn   i   au
d..id itoa - .e.if.-e ofi .gluiue  area ied iapornnipor peresnentf                              Pouatn  e   ueieProo-Pphaiodvie.ye,brohrecre
for croPs, Pscrnneb adkicchen gardens or co lie fnline; 1977 dan..                            mole end isie  graduate er ,pratical nures  adeanoares
Poe..letti-  -c  Boaital Bed -  inIl. -b-n  end rura  - fpnie.tine  (ltotn.
GbP PfO CuiTA (ci)) - ce  per c-ritn   snnea  curentmakec prcta-                            uben. and rura) di,,idebybireestea.rentepeb ed
colated by sn  c       Ior io- necIod nu Wtold Beak  tios. (1977-79 hnts); 196f,                 ratlobie  he pohltc edpointrs go-I an  spatisinsed boepins1 and  e
1970., sod  b9lbdto.                                                                              ahitto reters.  Hoapitale are  tnobliebhete Peemn ly snuffed
ENERGY WNSUMPTION PER CAPITA - ~~~~.og                        I           by a1tbout  tan "physirten.  !atbiiebmeTs pronding priaipall3  rstodisl
mari COiiOPlio  Pi tOITO     onua.:I_onahapttono.flon-rcinl.. enrg  (coat                care ar  net  tecoded.  ursI.b1        ios,hwvr  terlude henitt ad  -d.aol
enditntto   peroion  neuro   ea  so  hdro-,   o -ia  and snotbhras  sino-              cetes-o  rernenly  vanhffd by      hsce   (ban bp s medica..                 etto
triicyl it ktilogren   of coa  eqotJ-not Per- copita; 1960, i970, an 978                        mose   idiuf. etc.)  hbto  offor in-ratitn  erru.dation  ad provde
dat.                                                                                            litited range of aedicab  facblitits.  Put sntte.tical Ppurpse  torbn hapl-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                           I.I.~~~~nal  toolde tiBt priocipab  ganral sod spetiabted bhepitsie, sad r-ru
POllAltIdibIA, llitC                                                                    hoerpelel  bocob  er rorsi   ortes and aadto1 and marsete  ceters.
Ttota  Pop'cin.Mdya  (m                      A.oe   -d  of J.ip  1; 1960, 1970. end 1979      Admissio- ret BHeOttel Be  - Total nmber of  dmisainna to or discharge
data,                                                                                         from  hoepitls divided by rbn number of beds.
iranPonono  (rrsn    fto l) - ~tatt  of urban to tota  ppopition;
dtfferenc  definitions of orianeresa ma~~~y affect ctmPaobtlity of data        RetsotNo
amon  touotpta-  19bi, 19)0, and 1978 dstn.                                                 Amman. niee of tn..e.hold ieen  rer bou..hold) -  totn. urban, AndMel
Porulatint Prcf notions                                                 A ho.eehbd c-niste of a grooup o   niiui    b   horn livigqe
Porultiec  n yer 211  - Curentprpulontin proimotiona Ate base.d on 19S0             anotei.ei  mas.d  ordr                Acloidge-a1 rsu.         o   eilddi
cci pt    uloio  by age ned non and their sotality and f-rtiiity fates,                     the   .. ooleod foreetsiripurposne.
Projection  -a     --en     for mortaliey rota. ropi of  hthre  bevels a.e..-             base buhe  of reoeprIoa   oa.  ne.ad  ua       veaeam
bn Zifeap--tY at biticceenntbcurtepesptaocs                                            beo of PI  p   -en   ep- rot.  bo alui,-dro.a.  ocrupind reeto
levl,  nd  em leife onpectency etailtetog  an 77.5 yoars.,The  ae                        dwellings, respectinvly.  Been11.s.ludm   o-emnnWsrrne   n
enesfur f-titlity rent aitto have  hTbe   bevel  assmin  dcine touocpiedpats
fenltycoding  to Incoar iv1 and pAt..n.ype.tgpefrane                              Ocsto El-cticito  rnoto  deline     tnl uban, endI Ion
Euch  ooncry Is then assigned   oo  thet   iecobntos  fmraitp                               Convetional dtllins. nitbtoleiToinyinTlivn   qoutersa  percentage
and ftrililty  ireds for projection  ruro..e.                                               of total, urbo, nod r-rni d-elitngisrts.pietntvi-.
Ittonr  rorulncio-Olonen _innary  .poplation thte Is no growth sinus
rhe bIrch rote Is equel to the death  -nto    nd also  the age anuerr-                 EDUCATION
_ab_so_atut.  Thia be ahievd onlyatrfertility ..... d...i.. tO                            AVdtustd Enrollmn   Mtatto
of eunetreplace   tcself  nactip.Tie  taioar  pqus io iesserlletof all ages an the primory lee'neprenae  o   epen
entue   nths bunie of tie pocjeotmd  csatrsieof the populonion                          P rn-mny ehnl spepu1atinn; mortally inclodea tildregs..                 bl
_inhe year liii, and the ret  of daIitne nf fertility rent tn rep lore-                       years ho t edjuated for dif feret 1engtho of primary eduatiot:; for
snot level.                                                                       ocoanrins nith--t-typopl.i..i.   tanversab   doctio   Oe'rolma imal encee',d !1.00 pet
s..i-o ha  betmca.tonayahool -total, ens sod famabe- Computed as abtn; ...onador
Poueto  lrito                                                                                     ed utn require a..t  beset fou  yre of approved primar  i--at...nine;
Pe  g.b.      i-pear pcpulation pn, square ktilomn   (100 benteree) of                   p_oidae genrlratnu,n  T.tea -e totninig inatrutin fopeb
totnI ermu.                                                            ue~~~~~~.oalp of j12 no 17 years of a Be; coercepoed-ecose   n  gnelip
Per eq. ho. aotoulcoral lud - Comutd  e abort for- gr Irltra   len.lcided.
P2orlano doe A norr  (aro              - Children  10-14 yesrs)   motking-egs.l                    nbd    ehie,idsno,o   te  progonahithb opnran indee--
94 yer),ad  eiedI)  er  and over  -spretgsof aid-yee Pp.p-                                      datlyora  depantmatt  of .....ndory inetit'tione
leo ;609h, 1970, and 1978 dana         -A~.      t-           ...o  ..1   d                P'elre errtio - rrfay   n  aeoderr- Itut     stdents enrolle  Ir
10uatoirwhtt P              eret     os      oulgrohrtso   o                       i-              Pri7Muyad secondary  levein dioided byosr  of te...iere  in the
oar populations for l95t-hi, i960-70, nod 19-70                                                  corres..ponding  levels.
Porulunio iroeth  ate loetenn) - urue - Oooel ge.wt rates of urhbo Pop-O          ndnit.1itn-noyst  f(rPrcnt) - Littste  edoirs failentree.d and  -rit.)
bottom fur 190-hi,  BbO-70  And      i        ith    .   t-.do 197079.                   eape vtge of cuta1 edult popn.isco   aged 10 pears ond over.
Ppoyuition; 196f, 1970, end 1908 date.                                                    COgNSUMPION
Coude Deuti Rtat  (per tinn.aud) - A-1un  deaths par thousan.d of mid-yea-esas  tCar fre1tthonnad roruatio(-   Psene  tar  omrteson
popoiston;lh,1)1   n  iBSdt,crsssigln   h.. sight peratne; n.oldes ambuleno, ho-nse  and
Crsstr.    dcc, - Pdtit-dperiod ifhe  o  dagher       nm-               mi  bari               etinary vsb-hin.-
he ..e.      rpoutinpro   fa rmprae Y7ea  as-peif tofr                                       .dunr Ive    (-e thousand                        Alualo)-i  types of recsoe-r  for redb
t-lylaes   nuiy fir-year avraeseding In 196i. 1970, and 1977.                             AEl hadstsncSnsreb  pohlio per thousan d of  ppisit  notdna unit-
famiby Piscina-Acoerora. donisi (thonnadal - duoui oumbnt  f acce Ptors       con sd re... ri  countries and in yer h-e   eierto   cf radiose
of birth-ontrol doiona unde auspice  nf natinal fanCl  planing   rogra.    nn to_effet;f date  or recentyears maynot-he tmparabbn  tcc_  mos
Peatly finemna-lears  rnrcenn of  arried rnma) - Pernenags of sooied              countris abolishe   licensing
utat o  obti.d --Isin   oge (i-Ayas   inuebrhcnto    etp o                                  o'    evr  ce  boadrrletion) - TV Ip.c.i-ern for hreed,at to
nil tiarried ooman to sane age grocp.~general pblit o ye  irthon..d populetion; -oInd4ee oolnnen...d 77' reci-an
R02LAND  MRITION                                                                         .01~~~~~~~~~toronreean  i  years nh..oitrco   of TV eennn   In  fst
rOOb 0141 cclcit:on                                                                 etewar71or-erod-itrculatto   (o- thouaend ronulatioc)  - ninh   th  evrgo coo.I
loden of Food ProductionerCaia(ib-i-P)-    e  ofpecepita o-uI                                    tierof, "1daily geee.aI1 ineet--       sapr,defined aspne.rdclp
p-ced-tof Euno   uh   r   dii  udcoticcret                            ( .g.dfn   sod C1Ineodna  ienac   e    ais  o   erBsdontenmrro
osi laeaeproduoto price nighce; i96i-65. 1970, and 1978 data,                        tickets aold duniog the peer, including odmiet... to drive-i,tci-ea
Pet topics saroir of cslortea (rerrat of roanirseents)  - Computed from       nod nobtie unite. ft  ..d -bil
enry-      qivlnto   etfrdsppbeaviabecirotry Per topita                                        FRCE~
I~:;.d,,  -  II  I:.-qpI1,k,~,- d-   ti    I.dottoo, ip.t.         no.
perdt.  A tih..ie sop_eeompte  dopsseeto  odorin .                  oosles               oablboffrt thuans  - tEonoi-elly active psosos. inoiuding
sop_ts,adcngst1 t            oc.Bnaupinanbd    nma   ed  ses                                 rmdfre  od unemloyed but nnoIuditg ioe               -cn      vdents, etc.
qooctrteeend  n fod Ir Ieota. an  lo...a in disteibotbon.  taquire-                   cnofincto..t i.            --Icocirseon not - oe--rbli; 1960, i970 end
rannni-ed bY Pit huedonLphyjiologinaI.. reds for norma  att-                     1978 dora.
htnyood hen ib cneteri         toobrooe        ... aprtuf., body -eigt,  Fgm         Psnl (re-ceot)  F- reul  Cao   oc   spn nae                    otllbrfre
nr   r    ieccuion ofpopolation, and n11iotg 10 portent fornmet                    *rrlue(oon)-lbrfrei   aig   oetp                                     on   n
hoosebhold I-o; 1961-h5, i970, nod 1977 data.                                               fbbn   a   oeto   o   oa  labo  forc;  96,   97t  and 1079 .da.
VuIrevenr  for all  -r-ties  -erblisbhd by liDA reoride formnin                             17  end 1970d dott~ ts.   .d           P- ti.0                 .:      It'i9
aiooceo  hI gna   oft ntul pootrin Pee fey nod 20 grins of animal and                     P_rcicoacid  tots (prec  -ttl mi,ed enl-Prb painn
volne  ..cin   f ochi  gra   ehould he oo-1 protein.  Theme stad-                           ativty atsrecmudancnieleodfeinihrocen
nods ore lite  ciIh...ths  of 7b 9r-a  of tonal Protein  and 23 gram   of                   precof   f.i     .t.I too, -ai  an    .,-1,.d femleppusio    f  l nagen fapetv-
enpoalproten as a  soocge  OcI,thenorid, proponed by Pi  in tbe Thitd                  b6., 1070, end 0970 dot. ms:m:nacrtin   o  rtsrforo
foldfod        :;;Itey    691-67, i9Pi ond 1977 dto.
floo   fron  -oal  end  .o.et it g-ea  per day; it-65 ,19 70  0  1977 dota.                 maenr  fd ntini-orc
economic ier Id"ucy Rtiuo -Rctin of ropulacioc under 15 audtOudoe
tro    usdacived fron life teblen; i9hI, tOOl sod 1977 data.                        inivet cccStoyTION
i.bf_E  _--                          - drerge  onob- of ymaoe of life  -emttg                    of hotholda.
atf. hitch; 1960. 1970 and 1978 date.
bract Oorcaic coct (per thouseod) ~~- nonul desthe of inferte under .ee year    ovonTY TnuET GRnuoPS
of cr m   chuoad lve   trte.                                                 stiate dhoiun Poern boonoInvldIl)  er   ott) -urbn ad rural -
oecerouchonchor  frow  yr-teotd brehole..  sprioga, nod eo.titery neilal       d e   tEtinstd Rltv   oet  ooalrl(S   e   nie     rg~gjf
foocnv  r tuooct lcaednonmoe'han 100 aetere iron    bones may be                         . pe.en.  inon     f the c.outry.  bria  Level be derived f...n tbe rural
co-dro-don tbeing              -..c .. bneoale.o.....  of tithos,to rural ar...                 en1  ilh adjuntsen.t for higher cot of livi0  in urban. are.a.
donrhotcspn aOeropono ePer   fteday to f-bchtg tin                                                                                                              -
Acces to .n.ca....         Icrca   f ounco-ocluhe    n
yit orlobeoerd  statist loeesilscohcionodD., I



- 24 -
ANNEYX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                                                                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% CURRENT PRICES)
USS Million    % of GDP                                                  1975-79
GNP at Market Prices                                      972.7          102.7                                                     16.0
GDP at Market Prices                                      946.7          100.0                                                     15.7
Gros-  Domestic Investment                                198.1           20.9                                                     21.0
Gross Domeatic Saving                                       6.1            0.6                                                        8
Current Acrount Balance                                  - 109.8         -11.6                                                    .19.8
Exports of Goods, NGS                                     252.3           26.6                                                     15.0
Inports of Goods, NGS                                     444.3           46.9                                                     13.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979                                           Value Added                                Laor For.e                             V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million                   .           5JS$ Million                7.            us$ million                7.
Agric-lture                                              364.1                    42.8             0.914.                 57.7                398.3                 74.1
Industry, Construction
& Public Works                                          100.7                    11.8             0.035                   2.2             2,877.1                 535.6
Onvernoe,nt                                               94.8                    11,1             0.069                   4.4             1,373.9                 255.7
Coserce and Transpor                                     269.6                    31.7             0.565                  35.7               477.2                  88.8
Other Services                                            21.2                     2.5               ..                     .                   .._..
GDP at Factor Cost                                   850.4                  100.0              1,583.                100.0               537.2                 100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFAF Billion)           7. of GDP
1979                  1972-75
Current Receipts                                                   28.5         14.2                    14.9
Current Expendituren                                               25.6         12.7                    14.0
Current Surplus                                                     2,9          1.4                     0.9
Capital Ispendir.res                                                6.2          3.1                     9.2
Elternal Debt Disburaements (gross)                                 7.8         4.0                      3.6
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1972       1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978        1979
(Billion CPAF Otstanding End Period)
Money and Q ..si Money                                  13.89       14.79       18.45      31.86       30.63       33.32       39.01      45.37
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            -0.51       -1.16      -2,42       -2.95       -5.50       -7.63     -10.45       -4.47
Bank Credit to Privste Sector                           10.41       12.73      16.45       32.60       32.10       38.60      47.10       59.40
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Qasi Money as % of GDP                          ..         ..         17.1       28.2        23.5        23.8        24.1       22.5
General Price Index (1974 X 100)                        88.4        89.6      100.0       114.7       124.1       136.3      145.6       160.4
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Inden                                    ..          1.4       11.6        14.7         8.1         9.8        6.8        10.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          37.8     -127.5      -108.6       -21.9      -89.0        -38.0      -36.0       233.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         22.0       22,3        29.2        97.3        -1.1       20.0        22.0        26.1
Mote: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rates noted on the following page.
not  -vsilsble



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE, PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                         21          2/                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-1978, RECORDED)
1975        1976        1977         1978        1979                                                               US$ Million
(US$ Million)
Exports of Goods,  NFS                          116.3       133.0        182.1       191.1       252.3                    Cotton                                         7.3          26.2
Imports of Goods,  NFS                          235.5       276.9       314.2        360.6       444.3                    Caoeo Beans                                    3.4          12.2
Resource Gap (deficitn - 5                     -119.2      -143.9      -132.1       -169.5      -192.0                    Palo Products                                  4.9          17.5
All Other Coosnodinli-                        12 .3        4~4. 1
TOTAL                              27.9        100.0
Interest Paynentn (net)                          -1.3         0.0          0.4        -0.9        -1.0
Wjorkers' RemittSc..s                            14.9        20.1         21.2        26.1        27.1
Other Factor (net)                                0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Net Trsssfers                                    31.8        31.4         25.8        23.0        31.9
Balance on Current Ancounts                     -73.8       -92.4        -85.5      -121.3      -134.0
Direct Foreign Investment                         1.9         6.3          6.7         4.4         10.4                   ExTERNAL DEBNT  DECEMBER 31. 1979
Net HLT Borrowing                                 7.9         31.8        37.1        61.9         70.7
Capital Grants                                   20.6        25.9         37.9        32.7        24.1                                                                       US$ Million
Other Capital (net)                              -0.8          1.7      -12.5          7.3         16.0
Other Itars noe.i.                               23.6        32.2         15.8        -6.6          -                     Publin Debt (Disbursed),
UsD  of Reserves (isorease= - 3                 -20.6         5.4         -0.4       -21.7       -12.7                      Including Guaranteed                               179.4
SN.-Guaranteed Private Sob:-
Net Reeerves (end year) 1/                       14.6        18.8         18.3        -2.2       -15.1                    Total Otstanding and Disb-rsed
Pe#rslenm Imports as %                                                                                                                                    3/
of Total Imports                                6.1         4.4          3.9         3.6                                DEBT.SERVICE RATIO FOR 1970
Public Debt (Disbursed)
Inclsding Guaranteed                                  6.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
EXCIUIIC  BATES (CFAF PER US5)                                                                                            Total Outstanding and Disbursed
''ear               Period Averase         End of Period
1973                     223                     230                                                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING  October 11, 1980
1974                     241                     222
1975                     214                     224                                                                                                                    IBRD          IDA
1976                     239                     248                                                                                                                       (US$ Million)
1977                     246                     235
1978                     226                     209                                                                      Outstanding and Disburoed                                  48.2
1979                     212                     201                                                                      Undisbursed                                                20.48
1980                     210                      -                                                                       Outstanding Including Undisbursed                          68.68
1/ Net foreig_ assets of Central Bank
8/  Estites
3/ Preliminary estimate of ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services
not available



Annex 11
- 26 -
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of January 31, 1981)
Credit
Number          Year   Borrower   Purpose               Amount 1/  Undisbursed
(US$ million)
Three Credits fully disbursed                           14.80
415-BEN         1973   Benin       Roads                20.80 2/        3.52
583-BEN        1975   Benin        Rural Education       4.00           1.97
and Training
716-BEN         1977   Benin       Technical Assis-      1.70           0.49
tance
717-BEN         1977   Benin       Feed-r Roads          5.50           1.24
746-BEN        1977   Benin        Third Highway        10.00           3.21
826-BEN         1978   Benin       Cotonou Port         11.00 3/        4.48
997-BEN 4/      1980   Benin       Industrial Develop- 10.00           10.00
ment
1090-BEN 4/    1981   Benin        Feeder Roads          7.00           7.00
TOTAL                                   93.10          31.91
of which has been repaid                 8.40
TOTAL now outstanding                   77.70
TOTAL now held by IDA                   77.70
TOTAL undisbursed                       31.91
1/   Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
2/   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$9 million.
3/   Including participation of the Government of Norway (fully disbursed) of
US$8.3 million in the IDA credit.
4/   Not effective yet.



- 27 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 415: Second Highway Project; US$11.8 million credit
of July 3, 1973; Closing Date: October 31, 1981. Due to inflation and
currency realignments, project cost estimates increased to US$23.3 million or
77 percent above the original cost estimates. The Association provided a
supplementary credit of US$9.0 million on March 10, 1976. Physical execution
of the project has been completed. The closing date was postponed to October
31, 1981 to allow for disbursement of about $600,000 to cover costs of tech-
nical assistance under the Feeder Road Project (Credit 717-BEN).
Credit No. 583: Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0
million credit of September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981. This
credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training materials for a
Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction, equipment and technical
assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training program; and (iii)
preparation of a second education project. The construction of the National
Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for the rural
training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center (CPPE)
have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC. Equipment
has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for extension staff
and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural water supply com-
ponent jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980 is expected to
take two years to complete.
Credit No. 716; Technical Assistance Project; US$1.7 million
credit of May 30, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.  This project is
designed to prepare the way for a rural development project. The project
which was to be carried out over a two-year period is nearing completion. It
provided for technical assistance to SONAGRI, the project-executiLng agency, in
financial management, project preparation and evaluation, procurement of
trucks and staff vehicles, consultant services for the preparation of invest-
ment proposals and for cotton and foodcrops adaptive research. Preparation of
the proposed Borgou project has been completed and the one for the Zou project
is nearing completion. The technical assistance program has been extended to
July 1981.
Credit No. 717: Feeder Roads Project; US$5.5 million credit
of May 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1981. This project consists of
a three-year program for the improvement of about 845 km of feeder roads and
subsequent maintenance of about 1,270 km, the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment and spare parts, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Equip-
ment. This project is about completed. The program of feeder road develop-
ment would be continued under a recently approved Second Feeder Road project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems\which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy the_. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                               ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 746: Third Highway Project US$10 million credit
of November 18, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This project is
designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou by providing for the
rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's main north-south highway;
it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program begun under the two
previous highway projects; including the elimination of some of the backlog of
bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen roads resealing program
have resulted in further deterioration of about 54 km of roads which now
require full reconstruction. This coupled with an erosion of the dollar of
about 17 percent since appraisal has caused project costs to increase by an
additional $5.5 million. Reconstruction of the bitumen roads is provided for
under the proposed Fourth Highway project.
Credit No. 926: Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit
of October 6, 1978, Closing Date: March 31, 1982. This project provides
for the extension of the existing general cargo port facilities involving
dredging of a new basin, construction of 610 m berths with transit sheds,
hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the construction of a new
cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging; technical assistance
for all port operations including railway and a study of coastal erosion
problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally agreed to par-
ticipate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of external
financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved on
November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of one
of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $7.5 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the
construction of a new one. The Government is seeking additional financing
from the cofinanciers.
Credit No. 997-BEN: Industrial Development Project; US$10
million credit of April 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project
provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement
(BBD) for financing small- and medium-scale investments in the industrial
sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD's capacity to identify,
promote and assist industrial projects. This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1090-BEN: Second Feeder Roads Project; US$7 million
credit of January 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984. This project
provides for the construction of about 700 km and maintenance of 1,200 km of
feeder roads. This credit is not yet effective.



- 29 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:  the project was identified and prepared
under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 716-BEN
of June 3, 1977).
(b)  Appraisal Mission:  May 1980.
(c)  Negotiations:  January 1981.
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  June 1981.
Section II      Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
None
Section III    Special Conditions
The Government shall:
(a)  introduce, beginning with the 1981/82 campaign, an inter-
est rate of at least 11 percent per annum for seasonal and
medium-term credit for the financing of production inputs
and agricultural equipment, and for subsequent cotton
campaigns, adjust this interest rate in accordance with
criteria agreed upon between the Government iand IDA
(para. 53);
(b)  require farmers in the Borgou province, by December 31,
1983, to pay a charge for improved seed for foodcrops,
sufficient to cover variable cost of production (para.
45);
(c)  undertake reforms in the financial arrangements in the
cotton subsector beginning with the 1981/82 campaign,
including a revision of the cotton bareme based on cost
accounting information, a staged increase in producer
prices for seed cotton, and a reduction of its contribu-
tion to financing the costs of fertilizer and insecticides
(para. 34).



- 30 -                              ANNEX III
Page 2
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness included in the Development Credit
Agreement would be:
(i) execution and delivery of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of that Agreement (para 50);
(ii) initial deposit by the Government of CFAF 250 million (US$1.2
million) in an account at CAA to operate as a revolving fund
for all expenditures under the Project other than the purchase
of inputs (the Project Advance Account) (para 50);
(iii) appointment of a Project Manager acceptable to the Association
(para 40); and
(iv) approval by the Association of CARDER-Borgou's proposed annual
work plan and associated budget for the 1981/82 cotton campaign
(para 43).



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN                                                                3.
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            N I G E R
Project Area with Principal Centers and Location of Development
Existing establishments:
*       SONAGRI garage and cotton ginneries
*       CARDER garage
A       MDRAC agricultural research center                                                                 K yIMMA                          I
Proposed project developments:
Provincial CARDER training center
-12'              Seed production farm                                               1, 2oio   ;
Primary roads                                     U  PPER                                                                   ANVILLE
Secondary roadsTod,
Tracks                                            VOLTA '
------Railway
RiversMdooj
@    Provincial caPitals
0    District capitals
Provincial boundaries                                   .
International boundaries
_   _-lT    \    \                                    l<,       i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ChOioo  N ye     oaoj-Koo,o
G.                                  i6 \ ( BANA .g{Angora-Debouv  .t
~~&tA   \                /21                  t t              - S_   S~~~~~ovor, \  ooo.o4 0KN3              ,, \oto    \L
'11 7/m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                               tLosod0o0  aL. *
,,,,   \<  A   T   A ,.                     0   R  NA                                         N          Godroo T                      OFOSAN   )
0~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LOod u/ tr  X                                                                             Gobo,o,o-o<mu\
1             ~~~~B 0) RJ)'G                   U
wDoPori              l ~~~~NATITINGOU   Kune                   ,           SINENDE                v;oo m   C  >uLio             X
0, SINENDE                                   0Poo,uo ~+lo;  EBRKEr F  <       KALALE  (
\. louLombe  Jt         r         Tobri 8                  (  >       2Bouonr~~~I i /   \7Dss
10'                        \.        Bim2Govssookn:po,o                                   d   Ko,.. n    V      T   ;,o        NKolI
isokk0k,-o6o
T O  G  O              i 0            J</         t\       i      GbumvowroO    I            k L!             S        <;         ri50o              0
, < _ Soksofo n{PERERE p ~~~~~~~~N  I G  E R I A
d                                                                   WoOd Oo,Oot,,f,oovO iSu  W  &i/
< S 0 ! W /\s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir4...n90ro 
!  (   1  r    N   r6 KpitnroA KOU T.                               00-0010
u                             0   0 00000 00 000oleb0u  Oo _
o       2 0       4E0      60        80   j                           'g  Po                     -(0f                            _                Bro
0  ]P    2p  30  40  50                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COAST/GIAA.~PooNo  0G,
Th Coimoo-                           ro ci. 30 d-                                             t    _       G        t



