Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3157-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 24, 1981
Regional Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      CFAF
US$1.00            =       CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000         =      US$4.8
CFAF 1,000,000    =       US$4,762
FISCAL YEAR
January 1       -    December 31
WEIGHTS & MEASURES:  Metrie
Metrie                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)           2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres
i cubic meter (m3)             1.308 cubic yards
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BBD       Banque Beninoise de Developpement
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Benin
CARDER    le Centre d'Action Regional pour le Developpement Rural
CATS      Cooperatives Agricoles de Type Socialiste
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CLCAM     Caisse Locole de Credet Agricole Mutuel
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
COBEMAG   Cooperative Beninoise de Materiel Agricole
CRCAM     Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole Mutuel
DRA       Departement de la Recherche Agronomique
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAS       Fonds Autonome de Soutien et de Stabilisation des Prix
des Produits Agricoles
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GRVC      Groupement Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative
GV        Groupement Villageois
IRAT      Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales des
Cultures Vivrieres
I1DRAC    Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
MPSCAE    Ministere du Plan, de la Statistique et de la Coordination
des Aides Exterieures
PMEU      Project M4anagement and Evaluation Unit
SONACEB   Societe Nationale pour la Commercialisation et l'Exportation
du Benin
SONACO    Societe Nationale pour le Coton (formerly CNCB)
SONAGRI   Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole
SOPROCA   Societe Provinciale de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
I/   Floating Exchange Rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ............................................ ..     .    1
A.   Introduction ..............................................     1
B.   The National Economy         ......................................  1
C.  The Agricultural Sector ......................................   2
D.   The Livestock Sector ................... ...................    2
E.   Rural Development Policy . .. ......... ........... ....... ...  3
F.   Sectoral Institution ......................................     3
G.   Agricultural Training ................ . . . .............. ....... .  5
-H.  Bank Involvement in the Rural Sector *     .....................    6
II.  PROJECT AREA ..........................................  ... . .... ........  6
A.   Physical Resources ..........................  .................  6
B.  Human Resources ...........................................      6
C.   Agricultural Resources ...     ..................................  7
D.   Support Services for Agriculture & Rural Development   ......    7
E.   The Cooperative Movement .....    .............................  7
III. RESULTS OF ZOU-BORGOU AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS ........     8
A.   The Zou-Borgou Project ....................................    8
B.   The Technical Assistance Project.....                           9
IV.  THE PROJECT.... .. ..                        ..    ............    10
A.  Project Objetives and        De scription.                      10
B. Detailed Features              1. . .
(a) Reorganizing and Strengthening CARDER-Borgou                   il
(b) Consolidation and Development of the Cooperative
Movement. .                                                 12
(c) Supply of Inputs and Agricultural Equipment    .13
(d) Agricultural Research.....                 .     ........      13
Seed Production. . ....                                        14
(e) Animal Traction Extension    .     .                           15
(f) Civil Engineering Development          . . . .16
Water Development . .                                          16
(g) Monitoring and Evaluation        .....          .17
(h) Strengthening SONAGRI.                 .      ...........      17
(i) Studies........... ...    18
C.   Resulting Farm Development          ...18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....................................   21
A.   Overall Structure .........................................    21
B.   Technical Advisory Staff ..................................   22
C.   CARDER Field Extension Service ............................   22
D.   Project Coordination Unit .................................   23
E.   Organization of Cotton Marketing ..........................   24
F.   Input Supply, Seasonal and Medium Term Credit ...........   0.   25
VI.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ......       ................   26
A.   Cost Estimates          ............................................    26
B.   Financing Plan ........     ....................................   27
C.   Input Supply and Credit ......    ..............................    30
D.   Procurement .........     ......................................   30
E.   Disbursements ........     .....................................   31
F.   Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements ............. ...   32
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ..33
A. Production    ..33
B.   Markets ........ ...................... .....................    34
C. Prices   ..35
D.   Financial Results and Implications      ..38
VIII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ................          39
A.   Project Benefits and their Distribution    .      .39
B. Economic Analysis    ..40
C. Risks                      . ...42
IX.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION .44
ANNEX 1   Table 1  Annual Project Costs
Table 2   Disbursement Schedule
Table 3   Government Cash Flow
Table 4   Farm Cash Flow
Table 5   Improved Cultivated Area and Production
Table 6   Cotton Price Structure
ANNEX 2   Model Structure of Cotton Bareme
PROJECT ORGANIGRAM
MAPS      Benin
Project Area



BENIN
BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      The Government of Benin has requested IDA assistance in financing
an integrated rural development project in the Borgou Province estimated
to cost US$41 million equivalent over 4 years.  The project was identified
in October 1978 by RMWA and prepared by the Bureau d'Etudes, SONAGRI (Societe
Nationale pour la Production Agricole) under the Technical Assistance
Project 716-BEN, with the participation of RMWA. The project was appraised
in May 1980 by a team consisting of Messrs. O. Honisch, L. Abbie, A. Berthier,
R. Crown and M. Nightingale (IDA). Representatives of FAC and IFAD also
participated in the appraisal.
B.   The National Economy
1.02      The People's Republic of Benin covers an area of 112,600 km2 and
is bounded by Togo to the west, Nigeria to the east, Upper Volta and Niger to
the north, and by the Gulf of Guinea to the south. Administratively, the
country is divided into six provinces--Mono, Atlantique, Oueme, Zou, Atacora
and Borgou, the proposed project area of 51,000 km2. Benin has two broad
climatic zones: the southern equatorial, with bimodal rain, and the monomodal
Sahelian zone in the north. Topographically flat with medium-low quality
soils, the country is predominantly agricultural but has some mineral resour-
ces including limestone, phosphates and offshore oil.
1.03      Of the total population, estimated at 3.3 million (1979 census)
and growing at 2.6% per year, 87% are rural inhabitants and 95% of the adult
labor force (1.4 million) is engaged in agriculture. Population density
ranges from 170 persons per km2 in the south to 10 per km2 in the north.
1.04      With a per capita income of US$230 (1979), Benin is one of the
world's poorest nations. After a period of stagnation, GDP growth rose to
7% annual in the mid-70s but has since levelled out to around 4.5% per year.
1.05      The Government's last three-year Development Plan, begun in 1977,
had as its broad objectives increased industrialization, and food self-suffi-
ciency by 1985.  However, the budget designated only 11% for investment in
small-holder rural development which was insufficient to meet food production
objectives, while 70% was earmarked for major industrial and infrastructural
projects, including the 40,000 ton agro-industrial Save Sugar Scheme, the
Cotonou port extension and the Onigbolo cement project. The proposed
project would be the first step in improving the balance between industrial
and agricultural growth.



-2-
C.   The Agricultural Sector
1.06      Agriculture contributes 35% of GDP, and 55% of foreign exchange
earnings. The sector is predominantly traditional, subsistence agriculture,
producing yams, manioc, sorghum, maize and beans. The main cash crops are
oil palms, cotton and groundnuts while maize is both a subsistence and a
cash crop. Small quantities of rice are grown in bottomlands. Farming
patterns vary markedly: in the densely populated southern provinces of Mono,
Atlantique and Oueme, 18% of available land is cultivated, average farm size
is 1.2 ha and rainfall conditions permit double cropping, whereas in the
Atacora and Borgou with low population density, under 4% of available land is
cultivated, the average farm size is around 2.8 ha, and production is limited
to a single cropping season. The Zou Province in the centre is a transitional
zone, displaying characteristics both of the south and the north.
1.07      A five year period of stagnation in production of staple food crops
ended in 1976, principally as a result of better weather and more attractive
prices to small farmers. Export crops production has been variable. Oil palm
production, concentrated in the south, has remained traditional, and despite
the introduction of 30,000 hectares of improved plantations production has
been badly affected by prevailing limited rainfall. Cotton production,
successfully introduced to Benin in 1963 under bilateral technical assistance,
rose from about 5000t in 1965 to 50,000t in 1972. However, in spite of
efforts made under an IDA financed rural development project (paras 3.01-3.04),
cotton production fell sharply to 13,500 tons in 1976/77. Production has
since recovered somewhat, rising to 18,000t in 1978/77 and 25,000t in 1979/80,
encouraged by renewed Government support through extension and modest increase
in producer prices (CFAF 45 to CFAF 55/kg seed cotton) and improved rainfall.
1.08      In addition to being a subsistence crop, maize has been increasingly
grown as a cash crop since the 1976 drought in response to growing domestic
demand and border trade especially to Western Nigeria. To a lesser extent,
this has also applied to sorghum production which is mainly confined to the
north. Production of rice, which together with wheat are major food imports,
and groundnut have increased steadily since 1970. Therefore, for many farmers
the development of a flourishing market for maize and other food crops has
led to diversification away from traditional cash crops.
D.   The Livestock Sector
1.09      Growth of livestock production in Benin has been good in recent
years, the present national populations being estimated to be 770,000 head of
cattle, 860,000 sheep, 925,000 goats and 450,000 pigs. Cattle production is
concentrated in the Borgou, Atacora and northern Zou Provinces, sheep and
goats exist in all areas and pigs predominate in the south. Increasing
livestock populations and growth in the domestic supply of livestock products,
has satisfied most of the growing urban demand, with shortfalls in dairy
production being covered by imports.



-3-
E.   Rural Development Policy
1.10      Government's policy for rural development is to achieve food self-
sufficiency, to create an internal market by increasing agricultural incomes
and to generate exportable agricultural surpluses. This is to be achieved
through improving productivity from greater use of inputs, developing food-
grain storage capacity, expanding the role of the public sector in production
and marketing, increasing availability of credit, developing agro-industries
and expanding rural infrastructure. At Benin's current stage of development
this is a sound overall strategy. However, policy execution has been delayed
by a shortage of identified projects, restricted finances and a series of
institutional changes resulting from Government's frequent reorientations.
F.   Sectoral Institutions
1.11      The Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC)
is responsible for directing and controlling agricultural policy through
three Directorates, responsible for (i) Agriculture, (ii) Civil Works and
(iii) Quality Control. In 1980, a separate ministry was created for
livestock, which was formerly a directorate of MDRAC.
1.12      At the national level, programs are executed by a number of semi-
autonomous State Societies (Societes d'Etat), five of which are under the
general supervision of MDRAC: SONAFOR (forestry), SONIAH (irrigation and
water development), SONAFEL (fruits and vegetables), SONAPECHE (fisheries)
and SONAGRI (production inputs and cotton ginning). Other state organizations
are responsible for the processing and marketing of export crops: SOBEPALH
is a palm oil processing agency while SONICOG markets palm products and both
processes and markets groundnuts. SONACEB is responsible for the export of
all agricultural products except oil palm products. The private sector
handles almost all foodcrop marketing, which currently is efficient and
Government has had negligible influence in this area.
1.13      Primary agricultural production is promoted and organized through
provincial development centers--CARDERs (Centre d'Action Regional pour le
Developpement Rural)--which represent MDRAC and are responsible for provision
of inputs, extension, cooperative and primary marketing services, maintenance
of rural roads, water and other infrastructure development. However, since
their creation in 1976, the CARDERs have lacked adequate financing and staff.
In 1979, the district structure was reorganized in Borgou, increasing the
number of districts from 9 to 14, each with a chief officer responsible for
maintaining liaison with community representatives and coordinating the work
of government departments (including CARDER's). With modest changes in
management structure CARDER Borgou would be capable of project execution
(para 2.06).
1.14      In addition to the State Societies and the CARDERs, sector opera-
tions are complemented by a number of important supporting institutions.
Agricultural research, formerly under the direction of the French Research



- 4 -
Institutes, IRHO (oil palm and coconut), IRCT (cotton) and IRAT (foodcrops),
is now run by the Ministry of Higher and Technical Education and is organized
into a number of Research Units with responsibility for specific crops. To
date, work to improve cotton and foodcrop varieties has been promising,
requiring only financial support to complete development of useful recommen-
dations.
1.15      The Agricultural Credit Agency - CNCA (Caisse National de Credit
Agricole), directed by a national committee composed of MDRAC, the Ministries
of Finance and Commerce and State Society representatives extends credit to
state enterprises, the CARDERS, and to individuals. At provincial and
community levels the CNCA is associated with regional agencies (CRCAM and
CLCAM). CNCA has had responsible management to date and its performance --
although restricted by low volume -- has been efficient.
1.16      The Autonomous Stabilization Fund (FAS) is an agricultural price
stabilization fund created to protect producers against fluctuations in
export crop prices and to administer Government's input support program. Its
price stabilization operations cover cotton, groundnuts, coffee, shea nuts and
tobacco and its major input support expenditures are for distribution of
fertilizers and insecticides. For price stabilization, FAS pays the exporting
agency, e.g. SONACEB for cotton, an amount sufficient to equalize the unit
price received in world markets with the prices paid to producers plus proces-
sing and marketing costs. The total costs are tabulated in the crop's bareme,
which is a statement of standardized costs of each step in the production and
marketing chain. FAS retains any difference when the world price exceeds
the bareme target price. For cotton, this relationship between FAS and
SONACEB has worked effectively to stabilize and improve SONACEB-s financial
position. However by using the bareme -- which bears little resemblance to
the real costs of marketing and processing because cost accounting is poor
-- FAS does not help stabilize the incomes of SONAGRI or the CARDERs. Thus,
the financial stability of SONAGRI and the CARDERs poses a major problem for
project execution and would be dealt with at negotiations (para 8.11).
1.17      FAS also pays Government's cont'ribution to the cost of fertilizer
and insecticide acquisition and distribution. In the case of cotton, SONAGRI
imports and distributes the inputs to CARDERs, who subsequently distribute
them to farmers -- usually with seasonal credit. In principle, once acquisi-
tion and distribution costs are known and farmers payments are collected, FAS
is expected to pay the difference on behalf of Government.  The system has not
worked well however, since SONAGRI and the CARDERs have not been able -- owing
to poor accounting -- to establish the real cost of distributing inputs as a
basis for reimbursment from FAS. Also, CARDERs have had a poor record of
recovering payments from farmers which leaves an additional financing gap that
FAS is unwilling to fill. As a result SONAGRI and the CARDERs have become
heavily indebted to their creditors. Measures would be taken by Government to
deal with SONAGRI's and CARDER's debts as a condition of negotiation (para
6.11), and the project would include actions to strengthen the financial
management and accounting sections of SONAGRI and CARDER (paras 4.05, 4.23).



- 5 -
1.18      The National Pricing Commission (Commission Nationale des Prix)
sets farmgate prices for major crops as part of the baremes negotiated at
the beginning of each agricultural campaign. On behalf of Government, State
Societies have sole franchise for the main export crops and these can func-
tion fairly well since few alternative markets are open for smallholders.
Official prices are also announced for maize, sorghum and certain other
foodcrops; however unofficial foodcrop prices determined on the open market
are generally higher than official prices. Government has made several
attempts to participate in foodcrop marketing and has installed considerable
storage capacity and equipment for this purpose. However, with the relatively
efficient private channel available, further investment in official food-
crop marketing would not be a high priority.
G.   Agricultural Training
1.19      After primary school, four levels of professional agricultural
training are available:
(a)  The Faculty of Agriculture (created in 1972) of the National
University offers a 6 year course to secondary school leavers and
produces 5-10 "Ingenieurs des Services Agricoles" (ISA) (General
Agriculture Graduates) annually;
(b)  The School of Agriculture, Medji and the Agricultural polytechnic
(level 2) at Sekou (Atlantic) train "Conducteurs des Services
Agricoles" (CSA) who follow a four year, post junior secondary
school course. The annual output at this level is 30.
(c) Agricultural polytechnics (level 1) at Ina (Borgou) and Porto Novo
(Oueme) train two types of extension agents:
(i)   "Agents Techniques des Services Agricoles" (ATSA) follow a
four year, post primary school course at Ina or Porto Novo.
Their current annual output is 60.
(ii) "Encadreur"àand "Aninatrice" are empl3yed by CARDERs as
village extension agents following one year of training (post
primary school) in an "Ecole Pratique Agricole" at Ina or
Porto Novo. Their current annual output is 150.
.
The shortfall in the present annual output of each of these categories of
professional agriculturalists relative to the national requirement is a
serious problem; and is exacerbated by inadequate facilities and insuffi-
cient operating funds. Possible remedies are currently under discussion
between Government, the Bank and UNESCO (who have recently undertaken a stucy
projecting manpower requirements) with a view to improving the training
capacity for professional agriculturalists, and under the proposed project
training for provincial extension agents and farmers would be substantially
strengthened and reorganized (para 4.06).



-6-
H.   Bank Group Involvement in the Rural Sector
1.20      IDA has financed four projects in the rural sector.  The Hinvi Agri-
cultural Project (Cr. 144-DA, US$4.6 million, 1969) involved planting 6,000 ha
of oil palm, complementary maize, bean, and groundnut production, and oil mill
construction. The Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (Cr. 307-BEN, US$6.1 million,
1972) was an attempt io stimulate basic production, but performed disappoint-
ingly (paras 3.01 to 3.03). The Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 716-BEN,
US$1.7 million, 1977) which followed-up the Zou-Borgou Project was designed to
strengthen SONAGRI and the CARDER institutionally and to prepare proposals for
future agricultural investment projects (paras 3.05, 3.06). Lastly, Rural
Roads Project (Cr. 717-BEN, US$5.5 million, 1977) built up feeder road planning               B
and construction capabilities in the MTPCH (Ministry of Public Works, Construc-
tion and Housing), and improved some 300 km of rural roads. A follow-up
project, negotiated in November 1980, will attend to the feeder road require-
ments of, and complement, this proposed project (para 8.06).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Physical Resources
2.01      The Borgou Province lies in the north-east of Benin and covers
51,000 km2. Most of the province is classified as savannah and mean
annual monomodal rainfall ranges from 1,100 mm in the south to 900 mm in the
north. Soils are of medium fertility--predominantly sandy to sandy loams,
with some alluvial soils in the north. The province is served by a number
of small perennial rivers which are tributaries of the Niger, forming a
water table at an average depth of 10 m.
B.   Human Resources
2.02      The population of 490,000 (1979 census) represents 15% of the
national total and has been growing at 2.6% per annum. It is spread evenly
over the province at a mean density of 9.6 persons per km2. About half of
the population are aged under 15 years and the average family size is seven.
There are about 68,000 families, each with an equivalent active working
capacity of 4. Family labor is generally sufficient for farming activities,
although some shortages at peak cultivation periods have appeared in the
past.
2.03      The typical farm holding is 2-3 ha.  Thirty percent of these farms
grow cotton (estimated at 0.6 ha each) and most grow maize or groundnuts as
a cash crop. In addition, farms typically cultivate 1.5 ha of maize/sorghum,
0.2 ha of yam/cassava, and 0.2 ha of cowpeas/groundnut principally for
subsistence, plus vegetables. In the past, farmers have been responsive to
new technological ideas and economic incentives.



-7-
C.   Agricultural Resources
2.04      Yam and sorghum are the main subsistence foods in Borgou supple-
mented by cassava (or millet in the north), groundnut, cowpeas and vege-
tables. Maize production, which gained in importance as a cash crop has
continued to increase mainly as a result of price differentials, and ease of
marketing. Traditionally, the Borgou Province has produced nearly 60% of the
national cotton crop, 40% of sorghum and 20% of beans and rice crops. The
southern sandy soils are best suited for maize, sorghum and tuber production,
cotton flourishes particularly in the northwest, while a wide range of crops
are cultivable in the north-east including cereals, groundnuts and irrigated
vegetables. Overall, production does not face serious resource limitations.
2.05      Approximately 70% of farm families own cattle, whose population
is estimated at 500,000. Traditionally valued as a form of wealth, the
utilization of cattle for cultivation has increased in recent years and
approximately 20% of farms now use oxen as work-animals. The sheep and goat
population, approximately 380,000 and 300,000 respectively, provide 30% of
the provincial meat supply. Pigs, totalling 4,600 head, are insignificant
compared with southern Benin, while indigenous poultry provide the most
important source of animal protein throughout the province.
D.   Support Services for Agriculture and Rural Development
2.06      The CARDER-Borgou operates through seven divisions, responsible
for: training and cooperatives, production extension, rural infrastructure,
marketing and transportation, livestock production, research and development,
and administration and finance. These are organized through 24 sections
headquartered at Parakou, all currently lacking sufficiently trained personnel.
0f the 660 CARDER Borgou employees, only 32 have a degree or diploma and the
472 field officers generally lack modern training or experience. The present
agricultural extension system, which is organized on the basis of the 14
districts, is centered on the district agricultural officer (Responsable du
Developpement Rural, or RDR) reporting to the provincial Director of CARDER.
Each RDR is supported by specialist officers for adult literacy, home econo-
mics, water/forestry, livestock, and cooperative development. At the commune
level within each district, the CARDER-Borgou currently employs 75 sub-sector
chiefs (CSS), each responsible to the RDR for training, and supervising and
coordinating the work programs of their extension agents (EA) in 5 to 8
villages. The 260 EAs each live in a village and are responsible for
working directly with 200 to 300 farmers to provide the linkage for exten-
sion, training, input supply, credit and marketing services.  The CARDER
organization is cumbersome and inefficient, however, and corrective measures
would be implemented under the proposed project (paras 4.04 to 4.06, 5.02
to 5.05).
E.   The Cooperative Movement
2.07      The cooperative movement commenced formally in 1971 with the
creation of village groups (Groupements Villageois, or GV) with the objec-
tive of coordinating the provision of inputs and marketing services for



- 8 -
groups of cotton growers. Inputs were provided on credit which was re-
covered at the time of cotton marketing. The number of GVs in the Borgou
Province expanded to 344 by 1975 and fees earned from their cotton marketing
activities were used for community development, such as: wells, clinics and
stores. Following political changes in 1974, Government decided to reduce
emphasis on cotton production and the creation of new GVs ceased. Since
1977 Government encouraged, a new type of farmers groups, called "Groupe-
ment Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative" (GRVC), based still on indivi-
dual ownership of equipment and individual cultivation of land but with a
higher degree of centralization of the extension services for planning,
coordinating and supervising farmers' cotton and foodcrop production into
blocks, as well as providing input credit and marketing services than was
the case for GVs. The total number of GRVCs (averaging 30 members) fell
from 97 in 1979 to 86 in 1980, following the Government-s creation of CATS
(Cooperatives Agricole de Type Socialiste) as an experimental alternative to
the GRVCs. CATS were based on communal ownership of land and equipment and
on communal work and remuneration. Twenty-five CATS were established in
1978/79 and a further 17 (to total 42) in 1979/80. These CATS received
special intensified extension and support services, such as tractor cultiva-
tion, training, supervision and development of crop stores. However, CATS
were adopted reluctantly by farmers, and their total membership, which was
1,545 in 1978/79 (averaging 62 each), declined to 772 (averaging 18 each) in
1979/80. Indications are that this decline will continue, and Government
now believes that the CATS movement went too far in centralizing agricul-
tural production and has accepted that its work through of the cooperative
movement in agriculture should concentrate on GRVCs. Due to the unsatis-
factory performance of the CATS the project would not support this type of
cooperative, and Government would be asked at negotiations to assure
that resources provided under the project would be concentrated on small
individual farmers and GRVCs (para 9.02, a). The proposed project would
strengthen and consolidate existing and support the creation of new GRVCs as
the principle vehicle for advising farmers (para 4.07).
III. RESULTS OF ZOU-BORGOU AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS
A.   The Zou-Borgou Project
3.01      The Zou-Borgou project (Cr. 307-BEN) had as its main objectives:
(i) strengthening SONACO (Societe Nationale pour le Coton), the agency respon-
sible for extension, credit and primary marketing; (ii) developing cotton and
foodcrop production; (iii) constructing additional ginning capacity; (iv)
rehabilitating feeder roads; (v) carrying out agricultural research; and (vi)
preparing an agricultural diversification project in the Borgou and Zou
Provinces.
3.02      Slow and difficult preparations and negotiations, marked by institu-
tional issues and changes, were followed by difficulties in project implemen-
tation. Early in the implementation, Government decided, contrary to the
terms of the Credit Agreement, to remove the control of field operations
from the two bilateral technical assistance agencies (SATEC and CFDT), which



- 9 -
were supporting project execution in Zou and Borgou, respectively, under a
contract with SONACO. Extension services, primary marketing and ginning
were transferred to SONACO, and lint and seed marketing to SOCAD (Societe
Nationale de Credit Agricole et de Commercialisation). The project quickly
became a problem project and disbursements were suspended for nine months,
only to be resumed after revision of legal documents. SONACO was plagued
with serious management problems, and changes had to be made in the general
and financial management. Lack of Government support resulted in the
departure of all expatriate technical assistance staff in Borgou (1974) and
Zou (1975). In 1974 agricultural policy changed, removing financial incen-
tives from cotton, and concentrating support on foodcrops.  SONACO was
renamed SONAGRI (Societe Nationale d'Agriculture) in 1976 and its responsi-
bilities were broadened to encompass also input supply to foodcrops. On the
other hand, it was relieved of extension services, which fell under the six
newly created provincial CARDERs (para 1.13).
3.03      In drawing lessons from the Zou-Borgou Project experience, the OED
Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 2034, April 20, 1980) concluded
that (i) the unexpected economic competition between cotton and maize reduced
the incentive to produce cotton; (ii) the premature departure of technical
assistance staff weakened extension service and marketing efficiency, as
well as the procurement and distribution of production inputs; and (iii) the
changes in Government institutions nullified experience-building and
further decreased operational efficiency. As a result, cotton production in
1974 was 14% below 1970 levels. Production of most fooderops was also below
appraisal estimates--48% of appraisal estimates for maize and sorghum and
31% for rice, although groundnut production was at 190%. On the other hand,
in spite of these disappointing results, the project was successful in
expanding ox-cultivation in the Borgou, improving techniques of cotton pest
control, introducing improved cotton and maize varieties and creating active
village groups. While building on these strengths, the proposed project is
designed to avoid repetition of the shortcomings cited by OED (paras 4.22,
8.09).
3.04      Despite all difficulties, SONACO, with the help of the expatriate
technical assistance, succeeded in preparing a follow-up project. Given the
prevailing conditions, three successive missions concluded that a full-scale
project was premature. However, given some progress in improvement of
accounting, procurement of inputs, and maintenance of the transport fleet and
ginneries, IDA agreed to finance an interim Technical Assistance Project (TAP)
with the objective of assisting in establishing sound development plans and
pricing policies and enabling to regain farmers confidence in further project
activities.
B.   The Technical Assistance Project (TAP)
3.05      The TAP (^r. 716-BEN) was approved by the Board in May 1977.  It
provided for technical assistance to SONAGRI, strengthening its financial
management, reinîorcing SONAGRI-s transport facilities, establishing a develop-
ment fund for pilot projects in the Zou and Borgou, consultant services to
prepare investment proposals for the area freed from onchocerciasis, an
agricultural survey in Zou and Borgou, and applied research in cotton and
foodcrops. Although the project has not fully achieved all its stated



- 10 -
objectives (financial management, starting pilot projects, work in oncho-freed
areas, fooderop research, restructuring and retraining the extension service),
it did prepare, though with delay and with close supervision from RMWA,
feasibility studies of the proposed Borgou, and later the Zou Rural Development
Projects. During appraisal (May, 1980) of the proposed Borgou Province RDP,
technical assistance for finance and training, financed under TAP was extended
up to end 1980, to consolidate these two services in view of the expected
start of the proposed project in mid 1981.
3.06      Government is now placing high priority on the development of
thé agricultural sector, including the cotton subsector, and this was
demonstrated at all levels by the high interest in project preparation
and appraisal. Government-s changed attitude, together with the generally
favorable ecological conditions in the Borgou, the progressive and gre-
garious attitude of the farmers, the spreading use of cotton inputs, and the
significant number of work oxen, leads to the conclusion that conditions are
now favorable for the implementation of a viable rural development project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Description
4.01      The project's main objectives would be to improve the level of rural
incomes and promote exports by expanding agricultural production through the
strengthening and support of institutions and of technical infrastructure,
integrated with improved extension, cooperative, training, and social services.
4.02      The project is expected to reach about 39,000 farm families (or 57%
of Borgou's total) by PY 4 and generate an incremental production of some
10,400 t of seed cotton, 5,000 t of maize, 6,000 t of sorghum, 1,200 t of
groundnuts, and 1,000 t of cowpeas (Annex I, Table 5).
4.03      These objectives would be achieved through the following project
components and actions:
(a) Reorganizing and strengthening the CARDER-Borgou, the project
executing agency, through:
(i)  recruitment of qualified staff, provision of technical
assistance, and supply of transport and equipment;
(ii)  provision of a training centre and introduction of a syste-
matic training and retraining program for extension staff and
farmers; and
(iii)  restructuring of the extension service along the lines of the
"Training and Visit" (T&V) system.



- il -
(b)  Consolidation and development of farmers  cooperative movement.
(c) Improved quality and supply of inputs and agricultural equipment
to farmers, coupled with better cotton marketing and the introduc-
tion of an efficient credit system.
(d) Conducting applied research on cotton and foodcrops and producing
improved seed.
(e) Expansion of ox drawn cultivation over an additional 12,500 ha
through the provision of credit for 4,100 units of improved
ox-cultivation equipment.
(f) Labor-intensive rehabilitation of some 500 ha of bottomlands,
and reconstruction or construction of 130 village wells.
(g) Creation of a project monitoring and evaluation system.
(h) Strengthening SONAGRI through improved financial management backed
by technical assistance and better organization and exploitation
of its transport fleet and ginneries.
(i) A bottomland inventory and associated crop development study, and
preparation of a possible follow-up project.
(j) Close cooperation with the proposed Feeder Road Project (para 1.20)
to assure priority construction of roads identified as essential for
this proposed project.
B.   Detailed Features
(a) Reorganizing and Strengthening CARDER-Borgou
4.04      The CARDER organization is weak and requires reorgnization and
strengthening. This would be achieved through: (i) a simplification of its
structure (para 5.03); (ii) raising the technical level of staff (para 5.05);
(iii) qualitative and quantitative reinforcement of training (para 4.06); and
(iv) provision of technical assistance in areas of expertise unavailable in
Benin (para 5.04).
4.05      Headquarters management would be strengthened by the addition of two
Deputy Project Managers (one technical, one financial), and a decentralized
operational approach. Simultaneously, analogous services would be combined,
reducing the number of divisions from seven to four (para 5.03). Superfluous
subsector chiefs and extension agents (EA) would be redeployed while the
number of input supply, credit, and home economics officers, would be increased
at farmer level to give better attention to these hitherto neglected services
(para 5.05). The reorganization of extension services along the principles of
the "T&V" system, which started in the Borgou in the 1980 season under the TA
Project, would be further advanced by the internationally recruited Training
Officer. It would emphasize systematic training by subject-matter specialists



- 12 -
(SMS) of extension agents in the most important field operations, related to
crop production packages, and systematic visits to contact farmers. The cadre
of SMS would be composed of senior project technicians, backed up by special-
ized agronomists from research stations.  The choice of contact farmers would
be the job of GVs and GRVCs (para 2.07). Vehicles, facilities for headquarters
and district offices, and field equipment would also be provided.
4.06      To redress the poor agricultural training services in the Borgou
(para 2.06), a CARDER Training Center would be established on the existing
Government site at Ina (70 km north of Parakou), used already by the Agricul-
tural Polytechnic and the Borgou foodcrop research station. The Center
would include buildings for teaching and accommodation facilities for 40                   4
trainees, and would be operated by a technical officer (IASA) plus an
assistant and CARDER technical officers/assistants as trainers. Initially
3-4 week training courses would be provided by the Centre for all Borgou
extension staff, with annual refresher courses thereafter. The Centre would
also organize and coordinate field training programs for farmers, coopera-
tive workers and social service activities, and support the farm demonstra-
tion program. All courses would be practical, utilizing existing demonstra-
tion sites. The Training Specialist would work out annual training syllabi
and timetables for all categories of training. This program would be an
integral part of the project's annual work program, and would be submitted
to IDA for review (paras 5.03, 9.02, e and 9.03). In addition, project
financing would support the purchase and operation of vehicles for two
training officers, two minibuses for trainee transportation, a small mobile
cinema, equipment, field training materials, and lîterature. Subsistence
costs for trainees would be financed plus the provision for twelve man-years
of overseas training for senior CARDER personnel.
(b) Consolidation and Development of the Cooperative Movement
4.07      Government's policies for the cooperative movement have been
diverse and uncoordinated (para 2.07); however, the project would concentrate
its efforts in the Borgou on the GRVC type of cooperative. The objective
would be to expand the block cultivation system (already proven successful
in Borgou Province), thus inîcreasing the potential and efficiency of the
extension services, and facilitating the operation of the "T&V" system.
After appropriate retraining (para 4.06), extension agents would be respon-
sible for establishing and maintaining contacts with existing GRVCs, ulti-
mately upgrading GVs and helping organize new GRVCs to allow for greater
farmer participation in the project. They would be supported by retrained
cooperative advisors who now serve as deputy RDRs (para 2.06), improved
farmer training and demonstrations, better quality and organization of input
supplies and improved cotton marketing. The GRVC would thus become the main
vehicle for project impact and their number would increase from about 100 in
PYO to about 500 in PY4 -- largely from the upgrading of the 350 existing
GVs. Other cotton producers would continue to receive assistance through
the remaining GVs. Thus, the 12% (1,500 ha) of cotton fields currently
cultivated in blocks would increase to 50% (10,000 ha) during the project
period. This trend would continue after the project's implementation
period, as other smallholders received training and were influenced by
demonstrations in their localities.



- 13 -
(c) Supply of Inputs and Agricultural Equipment
4.08      The timely acquisition and distribution to farmers of "packages" of
improved production inputs would be supported and partly financed through
a revised seasonal credit program (paras 5.13, 5.14). Initially the principal
recipients of crop packages (para 4.25 and Project File) would be producers
of cotton, with security for seasonal credit, and who, as a result of their
grouped cropping practices, would be more easily guided by the extension
services. This would amount by PY4 to the use of 6,600 tons of fertilizer,
500,000 litres of insecticides, 1,280 tons of improved seed (including 830 t
of cotton seed), and 2,600 ULV sprayers (details in Project File).
4.09      The use of animal traction in farming would be supported and
expanded. Finance would be provided for the purchase of equipment such as
plows, weeders, seeders, carts and ridging equipment, to allow by PY4 4,100
additional farmers to become equipment owners, giving a provincial total of
about 10,000. Provision of finance for the purchase of oxen is not necessary,
since about 50% (almost 20,000) of expected project participants, although
not possessing equipment, do own cattle.
4.10      The nine month period for international procurement of fertilizers
and insecticides and animal traction equipment from local manufacturers
and its distribution to farmers, calls for adequate storage facilities.
Present provincial storage capacity is unsatisfactory, and stores in districts
and communes are poorly located and generally inadequately constructed.
Thus, the construction of 7 additional stores of 100 m2 and 34 additional
community stores of 60 m2 would be financed during the first two project
years, following a priority listing determined by the Input Supply and
Credit section of the CARDER-Borgou.
(d) Agricultural Research
4.11      Agricultural research, directed by the Department of Agronomic
Research (DRA) in the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research,
would be supported and strengthened. The DAR has suffered in the past from
a lack of qualified staff, and of means. Although continuity of bilateral
support and of the country-wide cotton research network has been maintained,
resulting in well based growing recommendations for cotton, recommendations
for foodcrops have been sketchy.  However, despite limited manpower and
means, intensive agronomic and varietal work, started in 1979 and 1980 in
maize, sorghum, groundnuts, and cowpeas, has provided provisional growing
recommendations, and with the financial support of the proposed project
there are good prospects for delivering further improved fooderop packages
within three to four years.
4.12      Foodcrop research would be carried out at the Ina station (para
4.06). Under the project the station's existing staff, one half-time rice
specialist and a full-time sorghum breeder, would be reinforced by three



- 14 -
more researchers. A senior research specialist for cereals and legumes,
acting as research program adviser, would be recruited internationally,
one Beninese graduate would understudy him, and another one would establish
a tuber research program. A Technical Officer would be appoînted to take over
administrative management of the station, thus liberating the current director
entirely for research work and for province-wide programming and coordination.
The station, which has sufficient suitable land for experiments, would also be
reinforced with buildings, means of transport, equipment, two man-years of
external training and four man-months of consultancies (details Project
File). Work would center on agronomic trials, variety screening, breeders'
seed production, and farming systems. The research program, including a
province-wide network of outstation trials would be prepared annually in
coordination with the CARDER Borgou, by senior Beninese research staff under
guidance of the senior research specialist/program adviser. The research
program would be an integral part of the project's annual work program and
would be submitted for IDA review (para 5.03). The research staff has
established close working relations with the International Institute for
Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Ibadan, Nigeria, and with a number of other
international research bodies, and would be encouraged under the project to
continue this useful cooperation in exchange of experience and planting
materials.
4.13      Cotton research is the responsibility of the section "Recherche
Coton et Fibres" (RCF), also belonging to DAR, with headquarters in Cotonou.
The RCF, created in 1977, successfully continues the program started by the
French Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et Textiles (IRCT). Two suitable
varieties were introduced, one for the north (BJA), and the other for south
Borgou (HAR-444), but higher yielding and technologically better varieties,
such as L-299 and MK-73 are in the pipeline. RCF senior personnel consists
of a director and three researchers, one of whom is an expatriate seconded
by IRCT. In the Borgou, RCF has a modern but ill-equipped building and
laboratory at Parakou, and four small outstations throughout the province.
Under the project, the program would be provided with equipment, simple
infrastructure at the outstations, external training and short term consul-
tancies. The program, annually agreed with the CARDER, would concentrate on
agronomy, new varieties, pest control, primary seed production and integra-
tion of cotton into the farming systems, and would be reviewed by IDA in a
similar manner to the fooderop research program (para 4.12).
Seed Production
4.14      Cotton seed production in the Borgou is well organized with RCF
providing breeder's seed and the CARDER, in cooperation with the ginneries
of Parakou and Kandi, taking care of further multiplication stages. On the
other hand, the search for widely acceptable foodcrop varieties is still
continuing so that only limited amounts of maize, sorghum, groundnut and
cowpea varieties were multiplied, and sent out for testing to rural areas.
Under the project a fully equipped Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU) would be
created and would be headed initially by an internationally recruited and
experienced seed production specialist who would be assisted by a graduate
Beninese agronomist, and technical and support staff.



- 15 -
4.15      The CARDER Borgou has 500 ha of land some 10 km from Parakou,
well suited for seed multiplication. A farm on this site would be equipped
with three 65 HP tractors and corresponding agricultural machinery, and would
operate by PY 4 on some 400 ha, producing about 400 t of improved seed of
maize, sorghum, groundnuts, cowpeas and cotton. Another 150 t of groundnut
seed would be produced, treated and stored at three different locations in the
north (50 t each) to reduce SMU's transport costs. For supply of inputs and
distribution of seed to rural areas SMU would be equipped with one light and
one medium-sized truck. To handle up to 600t of seed a processing plant of
some 800 m2, the first of its kind in Benin, would be constructed at Parakou.
An office and seed testing laboratory block would be attached to the plant
and five months of consultant services, to be hired following established
guidelines, would be provided for assistance in tendering, supervising of
construction, and running-in of the plant. Details on technical equipment
of the plant are described in the Project File.
4.16      It is anticipated that by PY 4 the SMU would produce the followlng
quantities of certified seed for planting the following areas by farmers in
PY 5 (details in Project File):
tons produced                ha planted
Crop                    in PY 4                    in PY 5
Cotton                      830                      23,100
Maize                       100                       4,200
Sorghum                      85                       7,070
Groundnuts                  211                       1,755
Cowpeas                      50                       1,675
Out of the above quantities over 90% of cotton seed and some 60% of ground-
nut seed would be produced by outgrowers. Rice seed would be procured
under contract from SONIAH (Societe Nationale d'Irrigation et d'Amenagement
Hydro-Agricole), which is managing a Government financed rice scheme in the
north of Borgou. Since the SMU is the first attempt for organized seed
production in the Borgou, improved seed would initially be made available to
farmers on easy terms such as through an exchange system on the "bag for
bag" basis to speed up the farmers' "own experience" demonstration effect.
It is also proposed that by the end of 1983 Governnent would institute
charges for improved seed sufficient to cover the variable costs of produc-
tion. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations (para
9.02, b).  By PY 4 SMU would make a critical assessment of its operations
and explore the possibility of converting it into a financially independent
enterprise as a means of reducing Government's budgetary contribution to
agricultural development (para 7.12) and improving project cost recovery.
(e) Animal Traction Extension
4.17      As a complement to the credit facilities supporting the purchase
of animal traction equipment (para 5.10) the project would provide for the
extension of appropriate usage of animal power in farming. The object of



- 16 -
this program would be to assure that by the end of the project, most partici-
pants were using animal traction in their farming systems--at least on a
rental basis. The total number of ox-drawn equipment in the project area is
expected to increase from 5,800 units before the project to about 10,000 by
PY4 (para 4.09). Each of the 14 districts (para 2.06) would be provided with
an animal traction center located, to the extent possible, on the same site as
the district input supply store where an agent with experience and supplemen-
tal training in ox-cultivation would conduct demonstrations and familiarize
farmers with new animal traction methods.
4.18      The district agent would also help identify potential clients for
traction equipment credit and assure an efficient linkage between the farmer
and the district intendant. Overall operations would be supervised by an
Animal Traction Section Head at CARDER-Borgou who would be responsible for
acquiring new information on ox-cultivation techniques, distributing it to
district agents, scheduling of training of agents and farmers at the training
center at Ina (para 4.06) and assessing the potential for acquiring and
demonstrating the use of equipment not yet in use in the province.
(f) Civil Engineering Development
4.19      For some time CARDER-Borgou's Genie Rural (land use services and
rural engineering division) has suffered from shortage of staff, operating
funds, equipment, and vehicles, which prevented it from playing its role in
water resource development and maintenance of the CARDER-Borgou vehicles and
tractors. This would be rectified under the project by provision of adequate
management and support staff, together with intensified training, better work
programming and sufficient operating funds. Finance would be provided speci-
fically for the refurbishment of CARDER-Borgou-s existing garage at N-Dali and
equipment and staff for well construction and bottomlands development.
Water Development
4.20      The Genie Rural capacity to construct and maintain dams for flood
control and water retention in dry seasons, establish community wells, and
survey and develop bottomlands would be re-established under the project.
Perennial rivers are limited in the province and the main source of water
for human use is approximately 300 open wells situated in about 240 villages
(47% of the total of 508). Water supply is a critical constraint to human
health and productivity. Genie Rural would be aided by a specialist Beninese
technician and additional support staff, whose initial task under the project
would be to complete an inventory of provincial wells and plan a construction
program with an agreed priority order by December 1981.  Further funds would
be provided under the project for transportation and equipment for two addi-
tional construction teams. The villagers would contribute labor to the well
program and their prior agreement to this would be a condition to commence
construction. The development planned for the project period: 100 wells to
be rebuilt and 30 to be newly constructed (details in Project File) at a cost
of about US$2,400 per well, is in line with the experience of an ongoing,
bilateral aid assisted project in the Province.



- 17 -
4.21      A bottomland development unit would be created within the Genie
Rural, consisting of a technician, topographer and assistants to survey and
prepare, by December, 1981, a program for developing about 500 of the 2,400 ha
of bottomlands scattered over the province. Subsequently, the unit would
supervise the construction, in bottomlands ranging from 5 to 25 ha, of simple
water control works, which, apart from limited hire of a bulldozer for con-
structing the main earth channels, would rely on labor by local villagers who
have to agree to this prior to construction. The unit would be responsible
for site layout, coordination of channel development, and the construction of
simple control gates, and instruction and supervision of their management
during the rainy season.  The direct incremental annual production resulting
from this development at maturity is estimated at 450 tons of rice.
(g) Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22      A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) would be established
at Parakou to monitor project execution and the impact of project activities
on farmers. Basic information on project inputs and outputs would be secured
periodically from routine regular operational records within CARDER and
SONAGRI, with impact information coming from regular surveys of participants.
Data on changing economic and market conditions would also be monitored.
Experience with other integrated rural development projects shows that such
information is vital for modifying current operations and devising future
plans. Moreover, such information would later serve as a basis for project
evaluation, leading to recommendations for changes in approach and the identi-
fication of components for a possible future project. Funds would be made
available for three years of technical assistance to lead the unit and train
counterparts, and supervise a newly recruited staff of 18 enumerators and
analysts. This would be supplemented by temporary staff for peak survey
periods and support field survey operations lasting up to 3 months per period,
twice a year. Detailed Terms of Reference for the specialist are available in
the Project File. His first order of priority would be to agree with project
management and MDRAC on key indicators and methodology required to monitor
project execution. A detailed PMEU's wsrk program would be submitted to
IDA for approval within six months of the specialist's arrival in Parakou.
Assurances to this effect would be sought at negotiations (para 9.02, c).
(h) Strengthening SONAGRI
4.23      Project finance would be provided to support an internationally
recruited financial adviser, and an accountant, to consolidate SONAGRI's
financial management. Funds would also be provided to acquire the services of
a short-term consultant in dispatching who would assist SONAGRI-s market
controllers and assistants to organize routes efficiently so that cotton could
be evacuated directly from market points to ginneries without being held in
intermediate village stores where the risks of fibre degradation are high.
Sixteen additional trucks would be financed to help evacuate the increased
production. Funds would also be provided to acquire the services of a special-
ist garage manager/mechanic for about 3 months per year following the marketing



- 18 -
period to assist SONAGRI's two provincial garage managers to organize work and
order spare parts for the truck fleet. Finally, to increase the quality of
ginning a short term consultant would be provided to assist SONAGRI's ginnery
managers in technical adjustment of equipment, prior to and during the peak
ginning time.
(i) Studies
4.24      Two major studies would be financed under the project:  (i) a
bottomland inventory and crop development study to be carried out in PY1 and
PY2, to assess the physical development and cultivation potential of 2,400
ha of bottomland in Borgou (para 4.21); and (ii) a preparation for a possible
follow-up project to be undertaken in PY3. The total cost of the studies
would be about $0.65 million and would include 30 man-months of consultancies
and their supporting services.
C.   Resulting Farm Development
The Integrated Package and Yield Estimates
4.25      The technical crop growing recommendations to project farmers
would be based on research results obtained in Benin, and in neighboring
countries with similar ecological conditions (Nigeria, Togo), and would be
adapted to specific sites with extension agents  and farmers  observations and
experience. A satisfactory and proven technical package now exists for
cotton, while presently available foodcrop recommendations are provisional,
with further improvements expected from research efforts in the Borgou before
the end of the proposed project (para 4.11). The recommended farming system
would be based on a cotton-foodcrop rotation, in which compound fertilizer
NPKSB (15-25-15-5-1.8) is applied to cotton, and succeeding foocrops benefit
from residual fertilizer effects, proven by IRAT, Togo, to increase fooderops
yields by up to 30%. Cropping practices of participating farmers would be
expected to move from "stage 0" (without project, all traditional management)
via an intermdiate "stage 1" (traditional foodcrop varieties following fer-
tilized cotton in rotation, modest pest control in cowpeas) to full develop-
ment stage Il" (improved varieties, seed dressing, 100 and 50 kg/ha of urea
topdressing for maize and sorghum respectively following cotton, 20 kg/ha
P205 basal dressing for groundnuts and cowpeas, improved pest control in
cowpeas). In cotton, stage O includes 100 kg/ha of fertilizer compound as
basal dressing and 50% pest control, stage I comprises 200 kg/ha fertilizer
and 75% pest control, and stage II represents 200 kg/ha fertilizer at sowing,
50 kg/ha urea topdressing and full pest control (details in Project File).
Using this technical package would be made possible by a more comprehensive
and timely input supply, improved extension advice and farmers training,
availability of ox-drawn equipment, and short- and medium-term credit (para
5.14). Resulting yield estimates, with a built-in allowance for the pos-
sible occurence of one drought season in five years, are shown below. These
are considered realistic when compared with yields obtained in neighboring
countries and research trials.



- 19 -
Yield Estimates (kg/ha)
% Increment   Weighted  Achieved in   Stage II as
Stage II over Average    Research         % of
Crop   Stage O   I   II     Stage O    in PY4       (1978,79)    Potential
Cotton  750    950 1150       53          910         2800           41
Maize   700   1000 1550       121         940         4500           34
Sorghum 600    900 1250      108          760         3000           42
Ground-
nuts  600    800 1100       83          740         3100           35
Cowpeas 350    500  700      100          430         n.a.           n.a.
Phasing
4.26      The proposed phasing-in of the improved production techniques would
be facilitated by farmer-s progressive and enterpreneurial attitudes, the
substantial improvement of support services forseen, and the fact that already
in 1973 and 1974 more than 35,000 Borgou farmers cultivated about 21,000 ha of
cotton, producing an average of 20,000 t of seed-cotton per year. By PY4,
total project production would have merely regained the area and production of
earlier years by restoring incentives suppressed in the period 1975 to 1977.
Only by PY7 it is anticipated that the production would increase over the
highest level previously achieved in the Borgou (in 1973-22,431 t) and this by
18%. By PY4, about 77% of cotton and 37% of foodcrops would be produced under
Stage II management, and by PY7 all cotton and 78% of foodcrops would be
produced under this regime. Expected growth in the number of participants is
shown below. The PYO figure shows farmers already growing cotton. The number
of project participants anticipated for PY4 is only 9% higher than the number
of farmers who were already integrated into the Zou-Borgou Project in the
period 1973/74. Therefore, the chances of achieving this number are considered
as very good. This participation, coupled with the projected yield estimates
(para 4.25), provides a strong base for achievement of projected production
levels (para 7.01, Annex 1, Table 5 and Project File).
No. of Project Participants
PYO          1           2           3          4           5
20,800      21,850      26,940      31,440     38,590      38,590
Farm Models and Development Results
4.27      Typical farm cultivation would be expected to increase by 0.2 ha
(7%) due to the project and an anticipated 70% increase in the number of oxen
teams (para 4.17). Sixty percent of participants would hire oxen for culti-
vating cotton (23% of farm area), and rotational block cultivation (involving
50% of cotton and succeeding crops by PY4) would be emphasized. The increased
use of oxen would help overcome labor shortages at peak periods (for details
see Project File).



- 20 -
4.28      Two typical farm models with cotton have been identified to illus-
trate this impact, one representative of North Borgou, the other of South
Borgou. A small number of non-cotton farmers is also expected to participate
in the project (5% in PY1, 14% in PY4). At full development net benefits of a
non-cotton farm are estimated to be about 15% lower than of cotton farm
(details in Project File). Farm development results shown below are given in
constant 1980 terms. The cash revenue presented is net of direct costs, auto
consumption (about 2,200 cal. per adult per day), and of finance charges.
TYPICAL COTTON FARM
North Borgou                      South Borgou
Without Project  With Project    Without Project  With Project
Cotton                 0.7 ha         0.8 ha             0.5 ha           0.6 ha
Foodcrops 1/
Traditional            1.9 ha         0.5 ha              2.5 ha          0.5 ha
Improved                 -            1.5 ha                -             2.1 ha
Total                  2.6 ha         2.8 ha             3.0 ha           3.2 ha
No. of persons in family       7.2 )
) all Borgou
No. of adults                  3.7 )
1/   In terms of percent of land cultivated; maize, 23%; sorghum, 40%;
groundnuts, 9%; cowpeas, 5%; others, 23%.
Farm Development North Borgou
Without Project                With Project
Stage O             Stage I          Stage II
Gross Margin (CFAF '000)         98              120    123%      154    157%
Gross Margin/Manday (CFAF)    289                324    118%      422    146%
Net Cash Revenue (CFAF '000)   14                 36    252%       69    482%
Farm Development South Borgou
Without Project                With Project
Stage O             Stage I          Stage II
Gross Margin (CFAF '000)        107              137    128%      182    170%
Gross Margin/Manday (CFAF)    290                350    121%      422    152%
Net Cash Revenue (CFAF '000)   23                 53    226%       97    414%



- 21 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Overall Structure
5.01      The proposed project would be administered by the CARDER-Borgou,
whose Director would become Project Manager. He would be responsible
to, and report directly to the Minister of Rural Development and Cooperative
Action (MDRAC) in Porto Novo. For input supply and primary seedcotton
marketing the Project would enjoy close cooperation with SONAGRI. Since the
project's headquarters at Parakou is more than 400 km away from Cotonou and
Porto Novo, the Project would have a small coordinating unit located in one
of these two cities, to permanently represent its interests in the capital,
and take care of the anticipated heavy and frequent contacts with ministries,
other Government institutions, and suppliers (para 5.07). The Project
Coordinator would be responsible to and report to MDRAC and would have
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para 9.02, d).
5.02      The Project Manager (PM) and two newly created Deputy Project
Managers--one for technical development, the other for finance and admini-
stration--would be technically qualified and administratively experienced
officers. Assurances would be obtained from Government that the PM and his
deputies would have at all times qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA (para 9.02, d). As for the PM, a suitable candidate was nominated as
Director of CARDER-Borgou in May, 1980.
5.03      The CARDER-Borgou would be reorganized to reduce unnecessary lines
of communication and maximize attention to the farmer needs. Four divisions
at Parakou headquarters (Organigram No. 21908) would replace the existing
seven in:
(i) Administration and Finance: involving six sections responsible
for all aspects of physical supply of inputs, credit administra-
tions, budgeting and financial control, marketing, transportation
and personnel management;
(ii)  Extension and Training:  responsible through four sections for
planning and coordinating provincial extension services, organi-
zation and promotion of GRVC groups, development of home economics,
and training;
(iii)  Technical Division:  involving five sections for management
of water and forest resources, coordinating livestock development
(with Ministry of Livestock) and oxen development, agricultural
research liaison, seed production and organization of demonstra-
tions; and
(iv)  Genie Rural:  three sections responsible for the maintenance
of CARDER vehicles, well and bottomlands development, and liaison
for priority construction and maintenance of feeder roads.



- 22 -
Government has agreed, and assurances were given during negotiations, that
the salaries of CARDER Borgou personnel would be increased by December 31,
1981, at the latest, to the level of state societies (para 9.02, f). In
addition, (para 5.05) a bonus system would be introduced for extension
personnel. On a pilot basis, such a system has been already tried out with
good results in 1978 and 1979. Details of the system would be worked out by
project management and sent to IDA for comment by June 30, 1981 (para 9.02,
g).  CARDER management would introduce a system of annual work plans and
associated budgets for each section and district as the basis for project
implementation. The introduction of this system and the submission of
the first such work plan for 1981/82, would be a condition of effective-
ness (para 9.03). Assurances were obtained in negotiations that the sub-
sequent annual work plans and budgets would be sent to IDA for comments by
November 30 of each preceding year (para 9.02, e).
B.   Technical Assistance Staff
5.04      Finance would be provided for 34 man-years of specialist technical
personnel whose skills are currently unavailable in Benin, in eleven posi-
tions for periods of two to four years, at an estimated cost of US$10,300
per man-month. Detailed Terms of Reference of this staff are in the Project
File. Certain of these posts would be line positions, and the appointment
of Beninese assistants of appropriate calibre would be required to ensure
effective succession on termination of each technical assistance contract.
The terms of reference of each technical assistance staff member requires
that appropriate attention be paid to in-services training, to permit a
smooth transition of responsibility to local staff, and the project training
specialist would monitor progress in this area. Assurances were obtained
from Government during negotiations, that the experience and qualification
of incumbents of these positions would be at all times acceptable to IDA.
This would include: (i) for CARDER-Borgou: the Technical Deputy Project
Manager; the Financial Controller, whose primary obligations would be
internal audit and technical assistance to local staff; the Chief Accoun-
tant; the Seeds Production Specialist; the Input Supply, Credit and Marketing
Specialist; and the Training Specialist; (ii) for SONAGRI, the Financial
Controller, and the Chief Accountant; (iii) for MDRAC, the Agroeconomist in
Project Monitoring and Evaluation; and (iv) for Research, the Cotton Research
Specialist, and the Foodcrop Research Specialist (para 9.02, d). One of
the major obligations of TA staff, specified in all Terms of Reference
(Project File), would be responsible and efficient training of the prospec-
tive Beninese assistants. Short-term consultancies for SONAGRI, the animal
traction extension unit, and agricultural research, totalling about three
man years, would also be provided.
C.   CARDER Field Extension Service
5.05      Project financing would assure the means for reorganizing CARDER
field staff by raising the calibre and improving working conditions and
productivity of field workers, implementing a "T and V" system already
initiated under the TA Project, (para 4.05), coordinating cooperative develop-
ment and instituting for regular retraining. Existing staffing at all levels
are now being reviewed by the Director of CARDER-Borgou and unsuitable RDRs



- 23 -
(district agricultural officers) and their specialist support staff (coopera-
tives, forestlwater, adult literacy, livestock) would be replaced. A supply
officer (intendant) would be appointed in each district with two assistants
for supervising input supply, credit and marketing services. Some of these
appointments have already been made. Below the RDRs, the existing sub-sector
chiefs would be reorganized to create 31 ATSA or CSA posts (para 1.19), and
following MDRAC's proposals would be renamed to "Charge de la Production
Agricole" (CPA). Each would be responsible for 2-3 communes (15 villages).
Home economics officers, working with groups of women in each village, would
be responsible for promoting improved health, hygiene and nutrition practices
at family level. Their number (23) would be increased over two years to 43,
to accentuate the project's support to rural families and each would have
responsibility for two communes consisting of 6-10 villages. At the village
level the existing extension agents (EA) would be reorganized into commune
teams and those unsuitable for retraining would be reassigned, leaving an
estimated 225 EAs, each with responsibility for organizing the cooperative
organization and agricultural production of approximately two villages. By
PY4, each EA would be responsible for about 170 farms.
5.06      The efficiency of the extension service would be improved through:
(i) Better planning, coordination, work organization and review, and
minimizing involvement with organizing input supplies and cotton
marketing;
(ii)  coordination of farmer production into a single GRVC system
centered on rotational block cultivation and "whole farm" develop-
ment concept involving an annual package of 2 - 3 specific crops;
(iii) greater mobility, by provision of pick-up cars for each RDR and
"intendant", motor cycles for all other district officers and each
CPA, and mobylettes for EAs and home economics officers. Motor-
cycles and mobylettes would be supplied to staff on a loan and
allowance basis;
(iv)  provision of continuing in-service training for all extension
officers, commencing with 3-4 weeks retraining of all CPAs
(former sub-sector chiefs);
(V)  improved back-up services, farmer training and information,
timeliness of input supplies, and of marketing; and
(vi)  introduction of a bonus system for extension personnel (paras.
5.03..and 9.02g).
Responsibility for this upgrading would primarily rest with the Technical
Deputy Project Manager (para 5.04).
D.   Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
5.07      The PCU would represent the project's interests in the capital, to
assure, among other things, the timely clearance and processing of procurement



- 24 -
and payment documentation, project budgets, and staffing requests and recom-
mendations through the appropriate Ministries. It would assure the Project's
coordination with associated programs, such as priority feeder road construc-
tion in the Borgou under the proposed Feeder Road Project, rural civil works,
livestock and animal health and agricultural research. The Coordinator would
be responsible for liaison with project-related ministries and would follow
proceedings of FAS, SONACEB and SONAGRI. The unit, consisting of a Project
Coordinator, (detailed Terms of Reference in Project File) and a small support
staff would be IDA's contact regarding project disbursements. The Coordinator
would maintain a close working relationship with the Project's General
Manager, and would be able to report directly to the Minister of Rural
Development and Cooperative Action in his areas of competence.
E.   Organization of Cotton Marketing
5.08      Primary Marketing:  The CARDERs are presently responsible for
primary cotton marketing. They determine a calendar of marketing dates and
designate marketing points, provide agents to be part of buying teams and
to manage cash. In the Borgou the CARDER contracts SONAGRI for the provi-
sion of trucks for transporting seed cotton, but since 1978/79 it has in-
creasingly used private truckers to provide transport that SONAGRI has not
been able to provide for lack of sufficient operational vehicles. At the same
time the number of small-volume markets has grown from about 188 in 1977/78
to over 450 in 1979/80 to encourage cotton production. However, collection
of cotton by SONAGRI trucks has not always been well coordinated with the
calendar for buying teams. Moreover, deliveries to the ginneries have not
been well coordinated with the ginneries ability to accept and store seed
cotton. As a result collection has been slow, and the marketing season
too long to assure high quality seed cotton.
5.09      Under the project the system would be changed and SONAGRI would
assume full responsibility for organizing the primary marketing of seed
cotton. Taking into account the advice of CARDER-Borgou field staff con-
cerning the best dates of harvesting, SONAGRI would prepare a calendar of
market dates and points. The market points would be determined so as to
assure efficiency in the use of trucks and fairness to producers, but only
market points at which more than 10 tons of seed cotton representing one
full truckload without trailer could be collected would be retained.
Routings would be drawn up in PY1 with the assistance of a short term
consultant on dispatching and this program would be revised each year
thereafter following the model established. SONAGRI's two Market Con-
trollers and their assistants, each operating from one of the ginneries in
the province, would be responsible for daily scheduling of trucks and buying
teams, following the plan previously worked out. They would also be respon-
sible for securing the services of private truckers to supplement SONAGRI's
trucking capacity as needed. District cotton buying teams, composed of
selected CARDER extension agents and coordinated by district CARDER supply
officers (intendant) would be placed at the disposition of SONAGRI for the
duration of the cotton marketing season and specifically trained by SONAGRI's
Financial Controller in the basic cash control method employed, and by
SONAGRI's Ginnery Managers and SONACEB's Quality Controllers in basic
grading. About 12 individuals employed for the 3 month buying period



- 25 -
would be responsible for about 30 markets each with large markets possibly
requiring more buyers. By PY4 each buyer would purchase about 20 tons per
day. Purchasing teams would also have a weigher and several laborers to
load the trucks, recruited by the chairmen of the GRVCs and paid by SONAGRI
as a direct operating cost. Making farmers aware of the time and place of
the market and organizing them to be ready just before the market day, would
be the responsibility of the District Cooperative Agent. CARDER's intendants,
responsible for credit recovery, would also be present at each market. Seed
cotton would be evacuated directly to the ginneries at the close of each
purchase day. To the degree that a second round of purchasing was needed,
similar procedure would apply.
5.10      Secondary Marketing:  Since 1977/78, marketing of cotton lint and
cotton seed has been conducted efficiently from a technical point of view,
with SONAGRI selling and delivering lint and seed to SONACEB, which is
responsible for assembly, storage, grading and exportation. Improvements
have been made in domestic grading, with SONACEB employing a full-time,
expatriate grading specialist who is training Beninese assistants. Thus no
new investments in secondary marketing would be warranted at this time.
However, the selling price of lint and seed between SONAGRI and SONACEB is
fixed by the bareme and has been too low to cover SONAGRI's costs of opera-
tions. With the introduction of a new bareme (para 8.11) this situation would
be improved.
F.   Input Supply, Seasonal and Medium Teim Credit
5.11      Major emphasis would be placed on the timely acquisition and
distribution of production inputs, to assure their availability to farmers
by mid May of each year. To accomplish this, the Input Supply and Credit
Section of CARDER-Borgou (see Organigram) would estimate by the preceding
August the net new amounts of inputs needed to attain production targets.
It would order fertilizers and insecticides through SONAGRI, as importer for
all CARDERs in the country, and would order animal traction equipment directly
from COBEMAG at Parakou (Cooperative Beninoise des Machines Agricoles).
Upon receipt of insecticides and fertilizer in Cotonou, SONAGRI would ship
them to Parakou and Kandi and to other central district points (Map No.
15215), using train and hired trucking services. By PY4, the time required
for this operation would be about 2 months, ideally completed by the end of
January. Subsequent distribution requiring an additional 2 months would be
undertaken by SONAGRI, using trucks engaged in the evacuation of seed-cotton
to ginneries at Parakou and Kandi, supplemented as needed by private truckers.
SONAGRI's Market Controllers and their assistants would organize this distri-
bution as part of the cotton evacuation program (para 5.09).
5.12      Once production inputs were in district and community stores,
the CARDER-Borgou would re mburse SONAGRI using a separate line of credit
(para 6.08), and would di'tribute them to individual farmers and cooperatives
under the seasonal credit program.   This would reduce SONAGRI's liability of
managing farm credit, and make the strengthened CARDER (para 5.04) responsible
financially. District intendants and their assistants would account for the
inputs distributed and assess farmer creditworthiness, following directives
promulgated by CARDER-Borgou. Extension agents would encourage input use



- 26 -
in technically correct combinations and supervise correct applications.
A similar relationship would exist between intendants and the specialized
extension agents dealing with animal traction for the distribution, financ-
ing and technical supervision of animal drawn equipment. By PY4, district
intendants and assistants would be responsible for the accounts of about 800
clients each.
5.13      Short-term credit in kind, covering 100% of the sale value of
fertilizer and insecticides would be granted to cotton producers, which
would be repaid annually. Cotton-growers would also be eligible for credit
on 100% of the cost of ULV sprayers, repayable in two equal annual install-
ments. Animal traction equipment would be available on credit, covering 75%
of its value, with repayment in three annual installments. Credit would be
recovered by intendants at the same time as cotton is marketed at the cotton
marketing points. This system has resulted in high rates of credit recovery
where employed elsewhere in Africa. Until a reliable alternative recovery
system is developed, inputs would be made available to non-cotton producers
through cash sales only.
5.14      Present Government policy is to make no interest charge on seasonal
term credit for insecticides and fertilizers. Both, SONAGRI and the CARDER
Borgou, have suffered as a result of this since they have had to pay for
credit administration out of other revenues. Agreement was reached with
Government during negotiations to introduce, beginning with the 1981/82
campaign, an interest charge of 11% for seasonal inputs to help pay credit
administration costs, and to also charge 11% annually on credit for animal
drawn equipment. Under current arrangements this rate would represent
the rediscount rate available to CNCA at the Central Bank of West African
States--8%--augmented by 1% to cover credit administration costs of CNCA,
plus 2% to approximately cover operating costs of CARDER-s credit administra-
tion in the field. During negotiations Government also agreed to an outline
formula for adjusting this interest rate once the new cost accounting and
credit recovery practices have identified the precise administration costs and
risks involved (para 9.02 h). Analysis of producers cash flows (para 7.10)
indicates that a 11% interest charge could be paid by producers without
reducing the production incentive.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
6.01      The total cost of the proposed project during the four-year invest-
ment period is estimated at CFAF 8,625 million (US$41.0 million). The foreign
exchange component would be CFAF 4,313 million (US$20.5 million) or 50%. Ex-
clusive of taxes, the total project cost would be CFAF 7,941 million (US$37.8
million).
6.02      Cost estimates are based on May 1980 prices and include identifi-
able taxes amounting to CFAF 684 million (US$3.2 million).



- 27 -
6.03      Estimated costs include the following contingencies:  (a) physical
contingencies of 5% for all costs except personnel; (b) expected local and
international price increases applied on baseline costs plus physical
contingencies compounded yearly as follows:
1980-81    1981-82    1982-83    1983-84
i.   Fertilizers, insecticides,
chemicals, gasoline              13%         11%        11%         15%
ii.   Vehicle maintenance              11.5%       10.5%       10%         12%
iii.   All other co6sts                 10%         10%          9%          9%
Price contingencies for fertilizer, insecticides, chemicals and gasoline are
based on World Bank projected price increases for petroleum. Vehicles running
cost price increases are based on the mean domestic inflation estimates for
1980/81 to 1982/83 for gasoline and maintenance, while all other costs follow
projected international inflation. Thus, total contingencies amount to 32% of
base costs or 24% of total project costs. A summary of project cost estimates
is given in Table A and a yearly breakdown is given in Annex 1, Table 1.
B.   Financing Plan
6.04      Project expenditures would be financed pari-passu by Government
(US$7.0 million, or 17.0% of total project cost or 10% of total cost excluding
taxes), IDA (US$20.0 million or 49% of total cost), and IFAD (US$14.0 million
or 34% of total cost).  The proposed financing plan and percentages of financ-
ing are given in Table B.
6.05      An IDA credit of US$20.0 million is proposed to finance 49% of
project costs excluding taxes. Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit
would be fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
IFAD financing (para 9.03).
6.06      The IFAD credit (US$14.0 million) would be made to Government for
a term of 50 years including a grace period of 10 years, with a 1% service
charge per annum. Total external financing of about CFAF 7,140 million
(US$34.0 million) would represent 90% of project costs net of taxes (83% of
costs, including taxes), covering the foreign exchange costs (US$20.5
million) plus US$13.5 million, or 78% of total local costs excluding taxes
(or 66% with taxes).
6.07      The external contribution to the project would be channeled through
the "Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements" (CAA) which is the Government's agency
for handling all official foreign financing and repayments. Funds would be
passed on to the executing agencies as grants since these agencies are
not fully autonomous financially. These funds, together with Government's
contribution would be deployed as follows:
(a)  CFAF 1,550 million (US$7.4 million) representing the financing of
inputs (CFAF 1,263 million, US$6.0 million) and inputs distribu-
tion costs (CFAF 287 million, US$1.4 million) would be passed on
to the CARDER-Borgou;



BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RUR&L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Cost Summary
CFAF Million                             US$ '000                      Percent of
Local         Foreign       Total         Local             Foreign      Total      Base Cost
A    CARDER's General Management                353           152           505         1,700               700        2,400           8
B    CARDER's Fi&ld Operations               1,094            388         1,482         5,200             1,800        7,000          22
C    Credit Administration Unit                 139            50           189           700               200          900           3
D    Input Distribution Unit                    266           109           375         1,300               500        1,800           6
E    Water Development                          164           116           280           800               500        1,300           4
F    Training                                  128             86           214           600               400        1,000           3
G    Seed Production                           224            312           536         1,000             1,500        2,500           8
H    Oxen Cultivation                            57            30            87           300               100          400           1
I    Agricultural Research                     165             86           251           800               400        1,200           4
J    Inputs                                     282           594           876         1,300             2,900        4,200          14
K    Internat. Recr. Technical Assistance   -                 710           710           -               3,400        3,400          il
L    Monitoring and Evaluation Unit             155            48           203           700               300        1,000           3
M    Coordination Unit                           32            10            42           100               100          200           1
N    SONAGRI's Marketing Unit                   127    *      347           474           600             1,700        2,300            7
O    Studies, Scholarship                       114           203           317           500             1,000        1,500           5
TOTAL BASE COST                         3,300         3,241         6,541        15,600            15,500       31,100          100
CONTINGENCIES:
Physical                               94           130           224           500               600        1,100            4
Price                                 918           942         1,860         4,400             4,400        8,800           28
1,012         1,072         2,084         4,900             5,000        9,900           32
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      4,312         4,313         8,625        20,500            20,500       41,000          132
of which taxes                            684                         684         3,200                           3,200
TOTAL COST NET OF TAXES                 3,628         4,313         7,941        17,300            20,500       37,800
Ê'



-29-                                                 Table B
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Financing Plan
(in US$ '000)
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITIES                           PARI-PAS SU
TOTAL   SUB-TOTAL    IDA         COVERW ENT   SUB-TOTAL        IDA           IFAD        GOVERNMENT
PPF    %               Z            PARI-PASSU  Z                %              Z
1.  Inputs                               5,400      100    100    100                       5,300    58   3,100    42   2,200    -         -
2.  Civil Works                          1,300                                              3,300    42   1,400    30   1,000    28    900
3.  Equ'pment                            2,000       50    100       50                     1,950    42      750    30       700    28    500
4.  Vehicles:
a)  Parts A, B, C, D, & E            2,500      150    100    150                      2,350    58   1,400    42         950    -      -
b)  Part F                           1,200                                              1,200    58      700    42       500    -      -
5.  Personnel and Operating Costs:
a)  Parts A, B, C, D, & E           15,400      100                    100   100      15,300    42   6,400    30   4,600    28  4,300
b)  Part F                           1,600                                             1,600    42       650    30      450    28    500
6.  Technical Assistance & Bursaries  5,500         300    100    300                       5,200    58   3,000    42   2,200    -         -
7.
8.  Unallocated                          4,100                                              4,100          2,000           1,400           700
41,000      700            600           100      40,300          19,400         14,000         6,900
Percentage of Financing
TOTAL COST INCLUDING TAXES             TOTAL COST
PPF         PARI-PASSU        TOTAL        NET OF TAXES
IDA                   86             48             49              53
IFAD                 -               35             34              37
Government            14             17             17              10
100            100            100             100



- 30 -
(b) CFAF 6,213 million (US$29.5 million) would be passed on to the
CARDER-Borgou to cover the costs of its management, operations,
specialized units, technical assistance and studies; and
(c) CFAF 862 million (US$4.1 million) would be made available to
SONAGRI to cover the cost of its primary marketing unit, tech-
nical assistance and studies.
For the management of project funds a Project Advance Account would be
opened at CAA with an initial deposit of CFAF 250 million (US$1.2 million).
Thereafter, additional deposits would be made quarterly in advance in order
to maintain a sufficient level of funds to meet Project expenditures.
Establishment of this account with its initial deposit would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 9.03).
C.   Input Supply and Credit
6.08      SONAGRI would continue to order and receive delivery of fertilizer
and insecticides for all CARDERs in BENIN. It would finance this purchase,
not later than October 31 of each year, with a short-term credit obtained
from a consortium of BBD (Banque Beninoise de Developpement), BCB (Banque
Commerciale du Benin) and CNCA, at a preferential rate (as 'of January 1981
of 9.25%). Upon delivery of the fertilizer and insecticides, SONAGRI would
receive from FAS (para 1.17) the amount of Government subsidy and from each
CARDER the value to be charged to the farmers in their respective provinces.
To facilitate this advance funding, CARDER-BORGOU would obtain short-term
credit from CNAC which would be reimbursed the following year from farmers'
credit repayments (para 5.13). For animal tractor equipment and ULV sprayers,
CARDER-BORGOU would make similar arrangements directly with suppliers using
CNCA financing.
D.   Procurement
6.09      The following procedures would be used for procurement.  Contracts
of US$100,000 or more would be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Goods and services so purchased
would be expected to total about US$9.0 million, of which IDA would finance
US$5.2 million, and would include purchases of vehicles,. seed processing
equipment, fertilizer and pesticides. Purchases would be grouped whenever
possible in order to derive maximum benefits from bulk procurement.  Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that international tenders for cotton
fertilizers and insecticides would be invited both for the incremental amounts
to be financed under the project, and for total quantities required for the
Borgou province (para 9.02, j). Contracts for goods and services below
US$100,000, but more than US$50,000, for small types and limited numbers of
equipment, vehicles and supplies, would be procured through local competi-
tive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA (US$2.6 million, of which IDA
US$1.4 million), while those of less than US$50,000 would be on the basis of
quotations from not fewer than three reputable suppliers (US$1.4 million, of
which IDA US$0.5 million). Contracts for construction of buildings and dams
(US$3.0 million, of which IDA US$1.3 million) would be too small and geograph-
ically dispersed to attract international bidders and consequently would be



- 31 -
awarded following locally advertised competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA. Contracts for short-term studies and training courses abroad (US$2.0
million, of which IDA US$1.0 million) would be obtained in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. About US$18.9 million (IDA US$7.9 million) of
project expenditures, consisting mainly of incremental operating costs and
local staff salaries, does not lend itself to bidding procedures. About 34
man-years of technical assistance, with a total value of US$4.0 million (IDA
US$2.4) would be engaged following procedures acceptable to the Association.
E.   Disbursements
6.10      IDA funds (US$20.0 million) would be disbursed over about five
years, starting with the disbursement under the PPF agreement. A fore-
cast schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 1, Table 2.



- 32 -
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amount of the Credit
Expressed in Dollar      % of Expenditures
Categories                          Equivalent            to be financed
1.   Incremental Inputs             3,100,000                    58
2.   Civil Works,                   1,400,000                    42
3.   Equipment                        750,000                     42
4.   Vehicles
(a) For CARDER and
other services            1,400,000                    58
(b)  For SONAGRI                 700,000                    58
5.   Local personnel and operating
costs
(a) For CARDER and
other activities          6,400,000                    42
(b)  For SONAGRI                 650,000                    42
6.   Consultants' services, studies
scholarship                    3,000,000                    58
7.   Refunding of advance             600,000                    --
8.   Unallocated                    2,000,000
TOTAL              20,000,000
All disbursements claims against contracts for civil works, vehicles, equip-
ment, inputs, technical assistance and studies would be fully documented.
Disbursements against project local staff and operating costs would be against
statements of expenditures. Full supporting documentation, showing costs
incurred, would be retained for inspection by IDA during project supervision.
F.   Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
6.11      SONAGRI's and CARDER's indebtedness was identified as a major issue
and Government was informed of the necessity to have the situation redressed
prior to Board presentation (9.01). Debts between CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI
have been tabulated and cancelled, and any remaining debts of these two
organizations must be absolved by Government and transferred to the Caisse
Autonome D'Amortissement (CAA) to enable CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI to start
the first project year with clean accounts.



- 33 -
6.12      To improve CARDER's and SONAGRI's financial management, the tech-
nical assistance team would include a financial controller and a chief
accountant for the CARDER-Borgou, and for SONAGRI (para 5.04). These two
agencies would keep records for the project consistent with sound accounting
practices and adequate to reflect both the overall financial situation of
these two entities and the detailed costs of operations of the project com-
ponents executed or administered by them. Cost accounting would be introduced
and be effective from July 1, 1981. Work in preparation for the start of the
system would be financed in part under the Project Preparation Facility.
6.13      CARDER-s and SONAGRI-s accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and their reports would be furnished to IDA within
four months after the close of the financial year. The auditor's report would
include, in particular, an opinion on the documentation supporting the state-
ments of credit disbursement against which withdrawal applications were to be,
or had been, made (para 9.02, k).
6.14      CARDER and SONAGRI would submit quarterly progress reports to
Government and to IDA showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of
progress achieved, and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each project
component. These quarterly reports would contain summary financial informa-
tion indicating the levels of its short-term borrowings and of any outstanding
receivables from Government or other bodies with respect to budgetary alloca-
tions for the project and subsidies on production inputs. Agreements on these
points were obtained during negotiations (para 9.02, k).
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.   Production
7.01      The improved extension and credit programs proposed under the
project are expected to progressively raise yields and increase the number
of farmers using improved production techniques (paras 4.25 and 4.26), so
that production of all major food and cash crops in the project area is
expected to increase significantly by full development. The following
summary shows the change in production expected by PY4 and, with the con-
tinued evolution of farmers phased into the project during the 4-year
project period, expected production in PY7.  Details on annual and sub-
regional growth are given in Annex 1, Table 5.
Summary of Production Increases
PYO          PY4             PY7
(0OOt)   (OOt)   (%)   (OOOt)   (%)
Seedcotton         9.4      19.7    110    26.6    183
Lint equival.       3.6      7.5    109    10.1    181
Maize             12.7      19.4     53    32.5    156
Sorghum           19.9      26.9     35    41.1    107
Groundnut          4.9       6.3     29      9.7    198
Beans              2.5       3.5     40      5.6    124



- 34 -
B.   Markets
Cotton Market Prospects
7.02      World market prospects for cotton lint, the major exported crop
produced under the project, are viewed as excellent. Forecasts of world per
capita income and population growth indicate a growth in demand for apparel-
type fibre of about 3.2% per annum to 1990.* Although world cotton produc-
tion is foreseen as growing at about 1.6% per year, the rising costs of
petroleum feedstocks for synthetics should restrain new investment in
man-made fibre capacity, allowing cotton demand to grow at 2% per annum. As
a result of fibre-market conditions, long term equilibrium prices are
expected to rise gradually from the 1980 level of 125 e/kg (in 1977
constant terms for Mexican Strict Middling, 1 1/16", CIF Northern Europe) to
165 e/kg in 1985 and 170 J/kg in 1990. This represents an expected rate
of price increase relative to 1980 of 6% per annum during 1980-85 and 1%
during 1985-90.
Fooderop Markets
7.03      With population growth in Benin of 2.6% per annum and per capita
income growth of about 5%, domestic demand for foodcrops produced under
the project, maize, sorghum, beans and groundnuts, is likely to remain
strong over the foreeseable future. Moreover, as is presently the case,
markets in Nigeria and Niger for maize and a lesser degree sorghum and
rootcrops, will continue to absorb large amounts of Beninese foodcrops.
Efficient marketing channels have developed already throughout the province,
in which traders personally appear in villages, buying up to 80% of the
maize produced, 70% of the beans and 50% of the sorghum and groundnuts.
Marginal quantities of rootcrops are also marketed but, as these are a
preferred food throughout the province, only limited sales occur. Over the
period to full development marketable surpluses would grow at about 10% per
year, only slightly higher than the annual growth in domestic demand of
8%, export markets not accounted for. Thus increased production under the
project will continue to find ready markets.
C.   Prices
Financial and Economic Prices of Benin Cotton
7.04      Benin cotton lint is generally sold at a discount on world markets
because of its small volume, and low grade. Thus, with only marginal real
growth in the costs of transportation and insurance between Cotonou and
Europe, the FOB value of Benin cotton lint is estimated to rise from US$1,562
(CFAF 328,000) per ton in PY1 to US$1,867 (CFAF 392,000) per ton by PY4, and
US$1,928 (CFAF 405,000) per ton by PY9 in 1980 prices. Under the present
structure of costs and taxes in Benin-s domestic cotton marketing system,
(Annex 1, Table 6), excluding the levy on cotton taken to support low producer
prices for production inputs, and producer cotton prices of CFAF 55/kg, these
*    Cotton Market Prospects:  IBRD Report No. 814/80, January 1980.



- 35 -
FOB price movements indicate (a) a growth in the financial margin of the
sector from CFAF 26/kg seed cotton in PY1 to CFAF 53/kg in PY4 and CFAF 58/kg
in PY9 in 1980 constant terms; and (b) a growth in the farm-gate economic
value of seed cotton from CFAF 84/kg in PY1 to CFAF 112/kg in PY4 and
CFAF 116/kg in PY9. The projected financial margin exceeds that currently
estimated for the cotton sector of CFAF 3.5/kg of seed cotton and indicates
that world cotton price movements would allow Government to pay higher pro-
ducer prices and reduce subsidies on inputs. Changes in producer prices to
maintain cotton-s competitive position with foodcrops and reduce the crop's
dependency on support were accepted by Government during negotiations (para
7.01).
Financial and Economic Prices of Foodcrops
7.05      World Bank projections forecast approximately 10% annual increases
in the current world market prices of the major foodcrops produced under the
proposed project--maize, sorghum, groundnuts and rice. Deflated for interna-
tional inflation, the increase foreseen for maize, sorghum and groundnuts is
about 2% per annum 1980-85 and for rice 3% per annum 1980-85.  For the purpose
of the project, maize and sorghum are internationally traded crops in the
sense that an unofficial trade takes place between Benin and neighboring
countries such as Nigeria. Taking Nigerian border prices recently considered
representative of the trade, of CFAF 60/kg maize and CFAF 50/kg sorghum as
surrogate FOB prices, world price movements would be expected to give border
prices of CFAF 66/kg maize and CFAF 55/kg sorghum in constant 1980 terms by
PY4. These price movements would indicate farmgate price movements in constant
terms of from CFAF 50/kg in PY1 to CFAF 55/kg for maize by PY4 and from CFAF
45/kg in PY1 to CFAF 50/kg in PY4 for sorghum, assuming that the current
average estimated costs of marketing from producers to export points remained
unchanged in constant terms.  In spite of efforts made by Government to
limit and tax this trade, it has and will likely continue to be the dominant
influence on Benin's domestic prices. Thus the farmgate prices are taken to
be economic values of these crops.
7.06     A- the case of groundnuts (shelled) which are exported officially by
Benin, world price projections indicate Beninese FOB prices of CFAF 118/kg in
PY4, in 1980 terms although this represents a decline from the high price of
CFAF 129/kg in 1980 terms predicted for PY1. Given the current price struc-
ture of groundnut marketing, as described in the Project File, including the
current official farmgate price of CFAF 40/kg, the FOB prices would yield (a)
a marketing surplus of CFAF 25/kg in PYI and CFAF 18/kg in PY4 for groundnuts
in shells; and (b) a producer-level economic values or CFAF 65/kg in PY1 and
CFAF 58/kg in PY4. As for rice, Benin is a net importer so that the movements
in world prices set the value of domestic production. Accounting for trans-
portation and insurance and a quality discount, CIF prices (in 1980 terms) of
CFAF 103,000/t in PYI, CFAF 108,400/t in PY4 and CFAF 111,200/t in PY9 are
projected based on World Bank estimates. On this basis, farmgate economic and
financial prices of CFAF 50/kg of paddy in PYI, CFAF 53/kg paddy in PY4 and
CFAF 55/kg of paddy in PY9 are expected, given domestic transport and milling
costs, in 1980 terms.



- 36 -
Financial and Economic Price of Inputs
7.07      Benin currently imports fertilizer and agricultural chemicals.  Based
on World Bank projections, the CIF value of cotton fertilizer is expected to
increase by about 4.5% per year between 1980-85, and by 1% per year over
1985-90, in constant 1980 terms. CIF prices for insecticides are expected to
rise by about 3% per year throughout 1980-90 in 1980 terms, following trends
in world petroleum markets. Economic prices of these factors would be equal
to financial prices since there are no artificial impediments to importation
and distribution, and are given in the following summary:
Summary of Input Prices
(CFAF, 1980 Terms)
PYO    PY1   PY4    PY9
Fertilizer, CIF/kg         65      72    82     84
at farm/kg        100    107   117    119
Insecticide, CIF/litre   920   1300  1420   1507
at farm/litre  1300   1686  1806   1893
For agricultural equipment, including sprayers and animal traction equip-
ment, the 1980 prices, net of estimated taxes are taken to represent the
respective farm-level economic values.
Input and Product Price Policy
7.08      Fertilizer and insecticide prices are fixed annually by MRDAC
decree. These inputs are currently sold to farmers at prices that represent
about 25% and 23% of the respective estimated farm gate prices, with Govern-
ment paying the rest. Government finances its contribution, estimated to be
about CFAF 520 million (US$2.5 million) in 1978/79, by taking a direct fixed
levy per kilo of cotton marketed, as a charge included in the cotton bareme.
However, in most recent years for wbich accounts can be estimated for the
cotton sector, 1978/79, revenue from`the bareme has covered only about 90% of
Government's outlay for fertilizer end insecticides (para 8.11) so that funds
from other sources have been used to support Government's payments. Moreover,
with fertilizer and insecticide use projected to double over the project's
life and with increased CIF prices of the inputs and distribution costs,
maintaining the same rate of Government support as at present would raise
Government's annual commitment to at least CFAF 1815 million (US$8.7 million)
by PY4. This situation is not tenable and requires both a revision in the
bareme (para 8.11) and a reduction in Government's rate of contribution.
Although baremes theoretically exist for oil seeds and other crops, their
application is less significant owing to lower volumes of production and
difficulties in controlling marketing.
7.09      Since 1976, Government has paid producers CFAF 55/kg of seed
cotton for first quality cotton and CFAF 30/kg for second grade, although in
practice very little cotton is judged second grade. However, as the prices of



- 37 -
foodcrops, which are not effectively controlled by Government, have and are
projected to rise, the price of seed cotton would also have to rise to avoid
an erosion in its competitive position, as was experienced early in the 1970s
(para 1.08). Currently, it is estimated that with present technology, product
and price levels, the return per man-day of labor in maize for example,
exceeds that for cotton by 78%. However, net returns per man day for cotton
and maize do not need to be equal for farmers to grow cotton, since these
crops are not completely competitive for resources throughout their produc-
tion cycles; and in fact both crops realize productivity gains from cotton
fertilization when maize follows cotton in rotation. Nevertheless, to
preserve the current levels of incentive to produce cotton, and to fully
harvest all that is grown, a progressive rise in producer seed cotton prices
would be warranted (para 7.10).
7.10      To overcome the associated problems of producer prices and cost
of production inputs, described above (paras 7.08 and 7.09), agreement was
obtained during negotiations that Government (a) would raise the producer
price for seed cotton starting in the 1981/82 season in discussion with IDA
and along the lines of the following table (this according to Bank projections
would maintain cotton's competitive position with respect to maize) and (b)
would reduce its financial contribution to the cost of imported inputs in
real terms from 70% to approximately 40% during the 4 year project period by
raising fertilizer and insecticide prices to producers. Agreement was also
obtained on the criteria that would govern further adjustment of seed cotton
prices and the producer costs for fertilizer and insecticides to ensure an
adequate incentive for farmers to grow cotton and a reduced Government con-
tribution to input costs (para 9.02 h). The following summary indicates
possible cotton and input prices that would satisfy the criteria. Under these
circumstances, the annual net marketing surplus for the cotton sector, exclud-
ing the levy taken to support Government-s payments for inputs, would become
positive in PY4 and, at full development in PY7, would be at about CFAF 420
million (US$2.0 million) per year. Considering that some degree of subsidiza-
tion would be acceptable and even necessary where government relies on the
export crop to generate foreign exchange, the plan proposed here would be
feasible and would succeed in bringing Benin-s policy into harmony with the
policy in several other West African states.
Indicative Evolution of Major Cotton Sector Parameters
PYO    PYI    PY2    PY3    PY4
Producer Price Seed Cotton/kg        55     74      93    111    130
Producer Price Fertilizer/kg         25     43      58     73      94
Govt. Payment per kg. Fertilizer   75       76      74     68      63
Producer Price Insecticides/1       300    611    828   1084   1428
Govt. Payment per liter            1000   1087   1054   1000    952
% Government Total Contribution
to Inputs                          70%    64%    56%    48%    40%



38 -
D.   Financial Results and Implications
7.11      Producer's Cash Flows and Financial Returns:  Farmers projected
cash flow is made on the assumption that:
(i)  family consumption is taken as a compulsory cost;
(ii)  food crop prices increase at the same rate as international
prices on current basis; cotton prices increase as described
in para 7.10;
(iii) fertilizer and insecticide prices increase as described in
para 7.10 on current basis while equipment, repairs and
maintenance costs rise at the rate of domestic inflation;
(iv)  farmers pay 11% interest on credit, following terms
described in para 5.14; and
(v)  farmers pay a tax per active agricultural worker of CFAF
2600, increased for inflation in PY1 and afterwards.
These results show that there is a financial incentive for farmers to par-
ticipate, both because they would experience high rates of financial return on
investments, without reducing consumption in early years of participation. At
PY4 net income of a typical farm resulting from the project would increase
4-fold over the net income without the project, as shown in the following
summary (see Annex 1, table 4).
Summary of Producer Cash Flows
(-000 CFAF at current prices)
North Borgou      South Borgou
Year in project                             4th               4th
(a) Net Cash Income with Project            95                124
Net Cash Income without Project         15                 25
Increment                               80                99
5th year          5th year
(b) Added increment with
Animal Traction                        129                163
7.12      Government Cash Flow:  Government's cash flow has been estimated
on the following basis:
(i) following Government's proposal, and lacking an acceptable and
practical taxing alternative, the current tax per member of the
active population working in agriculture would be increased from the
present level of CFAF 1,600 to CFAF 2,600 in 1980 terms, and further
increased to account for domestic inflation, to improve Government-s
cost recovery;



- 39 -
(ii)  the prices of production inputs sold to farmers would be increased
to reduce Government's participation from about 70% to about 40%
(para 7.10);
(iii) Government would recover a margin of about 3% on outstanding farmer
credit to contribute to operating expenses of the credit program;
(iv)  the marketing surplus for cotton is calculated excluding commissions
to CARDER, SONAGRI and SONACEB but with all direct costs of market-
ing and overheads covered, and with increased producer prices (para
7.10); and
(v) project incremental costs, recurrent and non-incremental costs, debt
repayment are added as normal outflows and taxes and external
financing extended for the project are taken as normal inflows.
Apart from PY1 and 2, Government would experience positive annual cash flows
up to PYll, when the cumulative positive cash flows would reach CFAF 592
million (US$2.8 million). Small negative average annual cash flows of about
CFAF 49 million (US$230,000) due to the start of debt service, would occur
thereafter. In effect, this would represent a small subsidy to agriculture
in Borgou Province, which would be justifiable as a support for foodcrop
production services and research and other developments which would lead
to agricultural improvements with national implications. After PY4, the
cumulative cash flow would remain positive throughout the project (Annex
1, Table 3). The annual cash flow of the cotton subsector would become
positive in PY4 (para 7.10) and remain so throughout the project's 20-year
life amounting to an annual surplus of about (US$2.0 million) as from PY7.
This would be made possible by projected improvements in world cotton prices
and domestic efficiency (Project File, Annex 5, Table 1).
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits and their Distribution
8.01      The project-s major quantifiable benefit would be increased produc-
tion of both cotton and fooderops produced in the Borgou. By PY4, annual seed
cotton production is expected to increase by about 10,000 tons (3,900 tons
lint) and by PY9 to 17,000 tons (6,400 tons lint), with annual FOB values of
CFAF 1.5 billion (US$7.3 million) and CFAF 2.6 billion (US$12.3 million) in
1980 terms.  The corresponding increases in economic farm gate value of seed
cotton would be CFAF 1.4 billion (US$6.6 million) by PY4 and CFAF 2.3 billion
(US$10.9 million) by PY9, valued at projected economic prices in 1980 terms.
To ensure a competitive position for cotton production compared to fooderops
part of this surplus would be required to support a farmgate price increase of
from CFAF 55 to CFAF 80 per kilo seed cotton in 1980 terms (para 7.09), which
would leave growth in Government's annual residual income from cotton of CFAF
149 million (US$0.7 million) by PY4 and CFAF 495 million (US$2.4 million) by
PY9.



- 40 -
8.02      Foodcrop production is also expected to increase significantly
(para 7.01) augmenting farm family nutrition and providing additional
cash income for project beneficiaries. With projected increases in economic
farm gate values of maize, sorghum, groundnuts and beans (para 7.03), the
value of this production would increase by CFAF 840 million (US$4 million)
per year in PY4 and CFAF 2,790 million (US$13.3 million) by PY9.
8.03      Among the nonquantifiable benefits, the proposed project would
strengthen Government's capacity to manage and plan further rural develop-
ment activity and an improvement in its financial management. Future
benefits would also accrue from foodcrop research, foodcrop seed production
and improved cultivation practices. Moreover, the project's water develop-
ment would both reduce health risks and time spent in water hauling.
8.04      At full development, (PY5) some 39,000 farm families representing
about 57% of the total number of the province would have been reached by the
project (para 4.26). Given the relatively narrow range of farm-sizes and
variations in rural income existing in the province, project activities
would reach families with total imputed incomes of about CFAF 102,500 or about
CFAF 14,600 per capita (US$70.00) per year (para 4.28). These families are
among the absolutely poor in the country.
B.   Economic Analysis
Analytical Assumptions and
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
8.05      In calculating the project-s economic rate of return, only the
project's directly quantifiable, incremental benefits have been taken into
account. All project costs except those of the SONAGRI marketing, and
research components, together with Technical Assistance associated with
these components have been included. Costs (net of taxes but including
physical contingencies as at para 6.03) and benefits have been computed
over twenty years in constant 1980 prices. It has been assumed that pro-
ject activities are maintained at PY4 levels from PY5 onwards, although
maximum physical benefits will not be achieved until PY7, after which they
are assumed constant. Incremental crop output has been valued at farm gate
prices estimated using world market prices (border prices) as a basis (paras
7.05, 7.06). Where they are positive, incremental farm labor requirements
have been included as an economic cost and are valued at CFAF 230/man-day
which is assumed to be the overall average opportunity cost of labor.
The resultant cost and benefit streams are presented in the Project File.
Under these assumptions, the project is profitable with a Net Present Value
of CFAF 4,124 million (US$19.6 million) and an ERR of 21%.
8.06      Sensitivity
(a) Costs and Benefits: The project's economic viability is highly sensitive
to variations in costs or benefits; due, mainly to the relatively large
value of annual purchased inputs--fertilizer and insecticide--after the
project period. However, the ERR is not sensitive to variations in the
shadow wage rate. While a 20% rise in benefits or a 20% fall in costs



- 41 -
would raise the ERR to over 30%, a 20% shortfall in benefits or a 20%
rise in costs would reduce the ERR to 7% and 10% respectively--near or
below the opportunity cost of capital, 10%. Alternatively, the sensi-
tivity of the project to changes in costs or benefits, expressed in terms
of switching values at the estimated opportunity cost of capital (10%)
shows that a shortfall in benefits of 16% or a rise in costs of 19% would
reduce the ERR to 10%.  The ERR is also sensitive to lags in the realiza-
tion of benefits, as shown in the summary.
(b) Participation: The project's viability is also very sensitive to
variations in the level of participation by farmers in the project.
Assuming that all benefits and the variable costs associated with
the crop improvement program would vary in the same proportion as
participation, and that all other fixed costs such as project management,
institution strengthening and training did not vary with participation
levels, participation of 75% of the project-s target farmers would result
in an ERR of 14%. A 50% participation rate would yield an ERR of
only 5%. Under the combined assumptions of a 75% participation rate, a
one year lag in the benefit stream and a 10% rise in costs, the ERR falls
to 4%.
Summary of Economic Analysis         ERR %
1.   Point Estimate                                     21
2.   Variations in Costs and Benefits
Cost                    Benefits
Plus 20%                Unchanged                  10
Less 20%                Unchanged                  34
Unchanged               Plus 20%                   32
Unchanged              Less 20%                     7
Plus 10%               Less 10%                     9
Unchanged              Lagged 1 year               13
Plus 10%                Lagged 1 year               8
Plus 10%                Lagged 2 years              4
3.   Switching Values
Cost must increase by 19%
Benefits must decrease by 16%
4.   Participation Rates
At 75% of Expected Rate                            14
At 50% of Expected Rate                             5
Participation at 75% of Expected Rate
and delayed by one year together with
a cost increase of 10%                              4



- 42 -
(c) Road Investment: The second Benin Feeder Road Project (para 1.20)
includes investments for amelioration of 424 km of feeder roads in
the Borgou Province. These investments and subsequent maintenance
programs, valued at CFAF 1,060 million (US$5.0 million) will facili-
tate the attainment of many of the objectives of the proposed Rural
Development Project. When all feeder road costs in the Borgou
under the Feeder Road Project are included in the costs of the
proposed project, which corresponds to the assumption that without
the full feeder road program project benefits would be substantially
lower, the ERR falls from 21% to 18%.
C.   Risks
8.07      There are no major technological risks in the project.  Proposals
for extension, seed multiplication, credit administration, cotton evacuation
and processing have been proven in other west African situations and are
capable of initiating a recovery in production (paras 4.25, 4.26, 7.01).
Applied research in cotton and foodcrops, and bottomland rice development
is straightforward, and although the timeliness of useful results may be
uncertain, this risk does not jeopardize overall project success. The
principle risk is that poor organization and financial management may lead
to underperformance, repeating what occurred in the earlier Zou-Borgou
project (para 3.01).
8.08      A risk to project success exists if the restructuring of the
CARDER-Borgou, and particularly its district level operations, is not
accomplished within the time or following the pattern foreseen. Hitherto,
inappropriate appointments, lack of experience, and rapid turnovers have
reduced the consolidation of experience which would be necessary for project
success. The onus is clearly on Government in this regard and assurances were
received during negotiations that key project posts would at all times be
filled with persons of experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA and to
minimize staff turnover consistant with good conduct, competence, and force
majeur (para 9.02, d). Moreover, technical and organizational training
programs would be provided for all staff. An additional management risk is
present in the number of organizations involved with project execution, their
geographic dispersion and the differences in their goals and functions. For
this reason, a Coordination Unit (para 5.07) would be created, whose role
would be to coordinate acquisition of goods and prevent slippages on essential
services required for project success.
8.09      In the present situation in Benin it will be critical that a strong
technical assistance team work in both line as well as in advisory posts.
Past experience has shown, however, that local reactions to internationally
recruited specialists may be negative and that the specialists themselves
may not be of sufficient quality to effectively advance project execution.
To date, Government has indicated its willingness to secure the technical
assistance necessary to assure project success (para 5.04) and IDA has been
closely involved with Government in the preparation of terms of reference
for these specialists (available in the Project File). IDA would also scruti-
nize with Government the quality of technical assistance offered before it
is actually recruited, and would supervise performance of technical assistance
closely during project execution.



- 43 -
8.10      The most significant risk lies in the area of financial management.
As a condition of Board presentation Government undertook during negotiations
to present formal documentation certifying the annulment of the debts incurred
by SONAGRI and CARDER-Borgou so that the project would begin on a financially
clean basis (para 6.11). To prevent a recurrence of this situation Govern-
ment also accepted to appoint a strong technical assistance team in financial
control, accountancy and credit management (para 6.12) to minimize the risk
of losses through neglect. Provisions of the revised credit system would
permit the control and internal financing of losses through interest rate
differentials.
8.11      However, more fundamental changes are essential in the financial
management of the agriculture sector in general and the cotton sector in
particular. Financial flows in the cotton sector are directed by a bareme,
which is an agreed schedule of standard costs, which according to latest
accounts (1978/79) bears little resemblance to the real cost structure of
the sector. This is illustrated in the following schedule; a detailed
analysis of financing of the cotton sector and of the bareme is given in the
Project File.
Summary Comparison of the Bareme with Real Costs
1978/79
(Millions of CFAF)
Bareme
Actual      Standard
Costs       Costs
1.   Price paid to producers                142,857      144,801
2.   Costs at CARDERs                        38,447       16,889
3.   Costs at SONAGRI                         82,192      59,371
4.   Costs at SONACEB                        28,376       58,902
A)   Sub-Total Direct Costs (CFA)            291,872     279,963
5.   Input subsidy                            75,700      69,544
B)   Total Cost                             367,572      349,507
This summary shows that while producers receive about as much income as
predicted by the bareme, SONAGRI and CARDERs are underfinanced by about 28%
and 56% respectively. On the other hand, SONACEB received more than double
its actual costs. Thus, income is misdirected leaving some organizations in
debt positions on their cotton activities and others with unwarranted "profits".
Moreover, under the current practice in Benin, when costs exceed bareme
provisions, there is no means redistributing income so as to equalize accounts.
This makes the bareme a schedule of final payments, not an indicator of
probable costs, and is a misuse of the practice of standardized costing as
usually applied. Project success would depend on Government's correcting
several faults with the bareme, its use, and the relationship between the
principle participants in the cotton sector. At negotiations, agreement was
obtained on guidelines and a timetable for amending the structure and use of
the cotton bareme starting in the 1981/82 season (para 9.02, h). A model



- 44 -
structure of the bareme is included as Appendix 2. The latter issue of the
general financing of the agricultural sector and use of head taxes (para
7.12), would be pursued during IDA's continuing dialogue with Government.
IX. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      Considerable progress has been made by Government with formally
anulling the debts of SONAGRI and CARDER-Borgou (para 6.11) and Board pre-
sentation depends on final certification. The recruitment of technical
assistance personnel is progressing on schedule (para 5.04) and negotiations
are in the final stages between Government and a team acceptable to IDA.
9.02      At negotiations, further agreements were reached with Govern-
ment as follows:
(a) resources provided under the project would be used primarily
for small individual farmers and GRVCs (para 2.07);
(b) by December 31, 1983, Government would institute charges for
improved seed, sufficient to cover variable costs of production
(para 4.16);
(c) a detailed work program for project monitoring and evaluation
would be worked out and submitted to IDA for comments within six
months of the arrival in Benin of the internationally recruited
specialists (para 4.22);
(d)  Government would employ or cause to be employed at all times, with
individual continuity, key project personnel with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. These would
include the Project General Manager and his two deputies (para
5.02); the Project Coordinator (para 5.01) and technical assistance
personnel (para 5.04);
(e) annual work plans and budgets for the project would be submitted to
IDA for comment by November 30 of each preceding year (para 5.03);
(f)  salaries of the CARDER Borgou personnel would be increased, not
later than December 31, 1981, to the level of state societies
(para 5.03);
(g) project management would work out details of a bonus system for
CARDER-Borgou extension personnel and submit these to IDA for review
by December 31, 1981 (paras 5.03 and 5.06);
(h)  Government would undertake reforms in the financial arrangements in
the cotton sector beginning with the 1981/82 campaign, including the
introduction of interest rate charges for production inputs (para
5.14), a staged increase in producer prices for seed cotton and



- 45 -
reduction in its contribution to fertilizer and insecticide costs
(para 7.10) and the use of a revised cotton bareme based on cost-
accounting information (para 8.11);
(i) Government would deposit its annual contributions to the revolving
fund for purchase of inputs, kept in a project account at CNCA, by
December 31 of the preceding year (para 6.07);
(j) Government would procure under international competitive
bidding procedures, both the incremental quantities of
fertilizer and insecticides for cotton financed under the
project, and the total quantities required for the Borgou
province (para 6.09); and
(k)  Government would cause CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI to submit appro-
priate quarterly financial and performance reports (paras 6.13,
6.14).
9.03      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:  (i) the nomination
of a Project Manager with qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 5.02);
(ii) the submission of the CARDER-Borgou first annual work plan for the
1981/82 campaign (para 5.03); (iii) fulfillment of all conditions precedent
for the effectiveness of IFAD financing (para 6.05); and (iv) the opening by
Government of a project advance account for operating costs at a reputable
commercial bank with a minimum deposit of CFAF 250 million (US$1.1 million)
(para 6.07).
9.04      On this basis, the project is considered suitable for an IDA
credit of US$20.0 million.



BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Proiect Costs
(CFAF '000)
FOREIGN
ACTIVITIES              PYl          PY2          PY3           PY4           TOTAL        TAXES     EXCHANGE
A   CARDER's General Management          181,326      107,626       96,756      119,836         505,544       48,890     152,100
B   CARDER's Field Operations            402,682      366,292      407,892      305,642       1,482,508     149,550      387,500
C   Credit Administration Unit            56,500       40,750       44,710       47,490         189,450        7,920      50,040
D   Input Distribution Unit               89,151       92,512       81,872      111,338         374,873       52,308     109,126
E   Water Development                     67,170      104,090       52,160       56,310         279,730       30,395     115,970
F   Training                              16,580      136,820       26,220       34,170         213,790       49,050      85,630
G   Seed Production                       61,290      337,540       64,340       72,550         535,720       87,922     311,406
H   Oxen Cultivation                      30,925       16,405       16,405       23,005          86,740        5,844      30,000
I   Research                              82,300       69,490       46,240       52,630         250,660       33,810      86,260
J    Inputs                              165,987      159,661      248,131      301,970         875,749        2,160     594,000
K    Technical Assistance Fee            227,000      227,000      189,000       67,000          710,000         -       710,000
L   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit        69,910       44,630       44,780       44,040         203,360        8,055      48,085
M   Coordination Unit                     12,270        9,170        9,320       11,520          42,280        2,546       9,940
N    SONAGRI's Marketing Unit             93,790      103,520      123,890      152,620         473,820       45,950     347,390
O   Studies, Scholarship                  46,900       77,750      141,450       50,550         316,650          -       203,250
BASE COST                         1,603,781    1,893,256    1,593,166    1,450,671       6,540,874      524,400   3,240,697
CONTINGENCIES:
Physical                         53,756       65,830       52,690        51,559         223,835      26,327     129,844
Price                           169,563      420,514      548,444       721,770       1,860,291     133,173     942,259
223,319     486,344      601,134       773,329       2,084,126     159,500   1,072,103
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     1,827,100    2,379,600    2,194,300    2,224,000       8,625,000      683,900   4,312,800
(b X
fr <D



-47-
Annex 1
Table 2
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(us$ '0OO>
Disbursements                  %
Bank Fiscal Year and Quarter         Quarterly       Cumulative         Total
FY81              1
(pyo)            2
3
4
FY82              1
(pyî)            2
3                 1,400             1,400             7.0
4                   900             2,300            11.5
FY83              1                  1,000             3,300            16.5
(PY2)            2                    900             4,200            21.0
3                 1,300             5,500            27.5
4                 1,300             6,800            34.o
FY84              1                  1,700             8,500            42.5
(PY3)            2               -  1,500            10,000            50.0
3                 1,200            11,200            56.0
4                 1,100            12,300            61.5
FY85              1                  1,200            13,500            67.5
2                 1,300            14,800            74.0
3                 1,300            16,100            80.5
4                 1,300            17,400            87.0
FY86              1                  1,300            18,700            93.5
2                 1,300            20,000           100.0



BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Governjent Cash Flow
(în Million CFA)
I N F LOW                                                                         U T FLO0W                                C A S  F LOW 
EXTERNAL               T A X E S             NET MARGIN  COTTON MARKET   TOTAL       PROJECT   NON-INC7EM.  INPUT SUBS.  DEBT           TOTAL                  CUMUAIÀ0VE
FINANCING  PROJECT  EXPORT.DUT. HEAD TAX  ON CREDIr    SURPLUS            INFLOW    COSTS      COS5S a       (COTTON)       SERVICE    OUTFIOW       NET          NET
PY 1          1,310        192          36         343         6           306         2,193     1,825          226           573           10      2,634        (441)        (441)
2          1,920        240         47          422       il            438         3,078     2,325          248           630           24      3,227        (149)        (590)
3          1,730        235         67          506       20            700         3,258     2,186          271           695           37      3,189          69         (521)
4          1,820        257         86          601       35            914         3,713    23256  /        295           765           51      3,367         346         (175)
5            370        222        104          601       41          1,128         2,466     1,019          295           837           53      2,204         262           87
6             -         222        113          601       50          1,318         2,304     1,019          295           920           54      2,288          16          103
7             -         222        120          601       50          1,339         2,332     1,019          295           920           53      2,287          45          148
8             -         222        120          601       50          1,377         2,370     1,019          295           920           54      2,288          82          230
9             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920           53      2,287         121          351
10             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920           54      2,288         120          471
il             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920           53      2,287         121          592
12             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          229      2,463         (55)         537
13             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          227      2,461         (53)         484
14             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          225      2,459         (51)         433
15             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          224      2,458         (50)         383    a
16             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920         223       2,457         (49)         334     §
17             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          221      2,455         (47)         287
18             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          220      2,454         (46)         241
19             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          218      2,452         (44)         197
20             -         222        120          601       50          1,415         2,408     1,019          295           920          217      2,451         (43)         154
7,150     4,476       2,133      11,488       863        24,500        50,610    24,896        5,760        17,300        2,500      50,456                     154
a/  Includes CARDER Borgou personnel and operating costs not covered by project.
b/ Includes recurring personnel and operating costs following project period.
n1
t~~                                                                      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x 



BORGO0 PR01INC0 R00010L 00VEL0814E0T PROJEOr
-=      CASHr Prîce,WP.F
_10RTH RORGOU0                                                                                                                                                            SLOOOI 00o0000
()COtt.a faner 016raelth          nadeaten                                                                                                                                     a  Cotton 0fr-e   Ltt)  -et.a  ....l ..O ogoîrme
1. 7018188                                            O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                                          ~ ~              ~ ~               ~ ~              ~ ~ ~ 1  2  3  4  5-20  O  1  2  3  4  5-20
fr0.. velue of rrop ordaattoo-mceual raltl-tton   1)    118.000       131,130          181,945          242,400          305,555          305.0555               125,250          138,780          193,720          260,545           330,410          330,470
ira,. cube of rrep prodarrocc-aaocccltlraoîcr   1)                      -                                                 040            1,0                                                     193,7200                                              7,88
T.tal groc  v           -pe0  c     prad.rtico18,0                                   11 118,45                       0248              1595            315,955               125,250           138,780           9,2             260.545          338,200          338.270
L00-  Vlire cf hc. - -- -- -pri-   1>                              80,70,0          88,770           97,650          107,415          118.153         118,155                 80,700            88.770           97,850          107,415          118,135          108,053
G-o -1..  f  -P -1..                             37~~~_3____         2 __ 60_        4  29.85                        17.0             197,800                 4450            _49,960           96,7            133 11,r30    ~   2O8115           220 115
Ornen   colo.   aI   0007   eclea                 ~~~~~~~        ~  ~ ~~~37.300  4 , 0 84     293   ______           5__ _                                   ________                           ____                             ____
Tort   îola                                              730             42360            8425             3,05            17,197.880                              4,3                9909,7                                            2,1
2. 0090010W
Se-8no  tapote  2)                                                 20,165           31,980           40,465           64,920           82,765           82,765                18,715            29,015           36.155           61,595           775325           77,5135
Oece .ml equipert Sire  3)                                           -                -                -               6,330            6.800            6,900                   -                -                -               4,750            5,172            3.75
Otha  caes       4)                                                 2 068            325                110            6,71             8.8              8.801,1                                 295                _680                           el24   7,88        7 8610
TotaI aotflee                                                            33,2~35                           77,25            9804 U8,45                               0.8971,97                        3                                  0,
TotET   MF 1 B1OEFNNIG50,05                                                      7,125           39,7~20          57,10            99,755           99.755                 23.920           17,990           56,235           80.540          129,545          129.545
Wir),oai Projeor                         ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~15,075  10,280  13,970        07,7'35          17,480           17.400                23,920            21.8228,05                        28,355          128,895           28,895
larremeatel                             -             (~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~ ~~3,155)  23,758  39.425  82,3155  82,3055           -(3,8215>                       29.730           5,2,185         100,650          100,650
4. Fl016NC101
-- ecîiet.-   1oae   crdit  5)                              7,280           17,683           24,720          47,759           62,490           63,490                  5,200            z4.02            19,620           43,225           57,265           57,263
Dabt  eoe-ecaetodttoe   6)                                     7,095            8,010           19,450           27,190          52,570           69,840                  5.060             5.720           15,430           21,580           47.050           62,990
Net f1aaoc1eg                                              185            9,675            5.2435          20,608           10,920           <6,230)                   140            8,305            4,190           21,845            9,75             (5,725)
(01.t  eSrva0   Tta                                                53,260           16,800          44,985           77,760          110,675           93,405                 24,060           26.295            60,425         102.185           139,260          123.820
.lth-et ProJeot                              052,260          17,203           20,20            24,490           24,26 5          013,415               24.060O           26,2770          29,:680          33,180           34,813           26,045
Oacree,eeteî               -                <415)          2~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~4,'575  53,7  610 79.990    -                  475)         30,740           69,005          105,245            97,725
6. NET CASH 01090UE0 A07T7, 0176  9AX
Totel                            ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~          ~~~8,860    3,36  32.8  43,928     95,432           78,165                 076914.852                        47,875           88,345          174,070          198,586
OlitIroot Oroject                 ~~~~~~         ~~~~8,860  100,075  12,650            9 70'         15,205            4,055                 `76600           19.730           OS1.920          24,660           24.655           16,685
irormeetel                        ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~         ~~~- (4,815)  19.735  47,950      80,230           74,119                                   (4,875)          25.905          63.695            99,365           91,895
(6> Oeea/Oatp.at .-,eshioîaaterpriee   8)                                                                                                                                       (6) Oafolee   eeal    napîe6
1. 101818
00er eof              .-recil  rp carpat ced aele-   0)       -                                7,655           07,630          29,980.          29,980                                    1-08,075                         22,970           38,570           28.370
Re8tal tare,,.                                                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4_4  f5f52 -   I15,2                                                                   Il_-   80_1U _20 75               12 075
Total iefboe-                                                                              7,655           3185             4,0                                                                                           O ~~~5,4
Iav.teet - eq.ip-orr                                                                  32,000             -                ---                                                                    32,000-                                               --
Oparaeteg eopeadaore - vcrrleaa.f_d  t_r  2)                                9.06             9,90            1,8             Ir 8_4           Il 8.45                  -               9,65_ 97                         1087             l_~  84           I  84
Ttalocfor                                                               41,065            9,7le,7                                             V                      -4,650,7                                                         T~% 
3. N017 80181000  00F8R1 F00N61N10iG                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8003,0
Totoîedtce,aa                                                           (41,065)          (2,315>          21,005           33.660           33,660                   -(41,065)                          205           23,18038008,0
4. FI88NC00G
0,a   aep.-  qootp-at  5)                                                   24,0800                     -                -                -                   -                         24,000                      -                -        --
D0b0  -eva-aaectod itarar-t  6)                                      --10,40                                           8, 9600          8,800             ---                                                    18,400            9,600            8,800-
01er ftraartog                          -              0~~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~4,000  (00,480)0  (9,600)  (8,808)  -                                24,000           (100,400)         (9,6809          (8,808) 
5. NET BE010IT 089T60 F01iANt00NG
Tat.1 aa   ar,.tl-                                                      (17,065>         (12,715)          11,405           24,860           33,660                   -(17,065)                      (10,195)          13,580           30,000           38,800
1) OroJert.d oaotaa pola- - F9Y0: 55,  09Y1: 62.  09Y2: 85,  F03: 108,  0904: 130                                                                                        6) Repayaa.nt ovr1 700- ..e......  cedit, 117 itararet.
Ftjatd  ad rrp priîrea- torre    1o 7. p...                                                                                                                        RaPayo,at ovr3 yaa-e-edi- t-r  000080; 117, Ontar-t.
2) FroJeotei  f-tcili-e  prod ...  pri... (CFA/kg)- 25, 46, 63, 90, 116: teac..ritide pr-do..r pri-o  (CFAfIita)r 300, 676, 959, 1357. 1874                              7) Haed 100 proJrtad a-  (CFA.ctorttv  ..rkar; 4 arriva oork.ra/houeaho1d):
3) Pej.aatd eeaaal tare         l  eqaipeant .ad .... hire - 1090, 10%0, 97,, 9%..  5.0  r-tea fa- vaois            ed  tf.,                                                                                     2       3       4
4) RepA ir od eaaoaa;ph,y.î.l eoetiageec:ie.                                                                                                                                Witth proj.ot       1600   2860   3150   3460   3810  (107. 7..otes- o -f   t ..e.e  10 PY1)
5) 109% a-dit fe . .......l tapote: 75% oradit f-r aq.Op-.t.                                                                                                                Nîther tp-o3-r  1600   1760   1940   2130   2340  (1009  p.c..icee
8) Paea .-        cîc   q.tp-.to seened to ou   1a-alady.
A.g..t 15, 1988.



BORGOU PROVINCE RUR VE1OP9R9T PROJECT
Ieproved Coltivoted Area ocd Produotitn
CULTIV7ATE  A3RA (hectares)                                                        halopente-                                            POODUCTION (tons)
1Op .ser
-                   n        -~~~~P                                tons/hectare                                                           Pn
S         1           2          3            4          5           6          7                                   0          1           2            3           4           5           6           7
<s) Cotton fae-,era B/
I  Cettos:      Stage 0      12,500       .          1,500      1,325        1,790        -          -           -       0.75                     9,375      9,375         -          1,125          995      1,345
stage 1       -         12,500      1,500       2,825       3,115       3,160       -           -       0.95                      -           -          11,875      1,425        2,685       2,960       3,000
Stage 2     ---          -         12.500      14.000      1.825       19.940     2.100       231J20    1.15                                 -            ---Z.     14,375       16.100      19350       22,930      2 6
Total     12.500      12,500     15,500      1  G150     2           23 100     2.100       23.100                 Tetrn       9 375       9 375       11-875     16 925       19,780      2           25.730      26 565
îocservectol.-                        3,000       5,650       9,230      10,600     10,600      10,600              lcrma          -           -           2,500      7,550   1     ,405      14.200      16,555      17,190
2. Moies:       Otage 0      15,770     12,575       8,900      5,525         -           -          -           -       0.7                     11,040     11,040        8,800       6,230        3,870        -           -           -
Stage 1       -          3,380      6,795       6,920      10,190       6,895        -                  1.0                       _           -           3,380      6,795        6,920      10,190       6,895        -
Stage 2             -                -          3,380       6,620      10,125     17.260      17.260    1.-S                                                                      5 240      10.260      15,695      26,755
Total     15.770      15 95      15.695      15.825      160810      17.020     17 260      17.260                Terni       11.0.0      11000        121l0      13 025       16.030      20 450      22,590    _26I755
Isereeeetnî 2/  -                      (515)       (945)     (1,210)    (1;000)        (760)      (760)              Iaers,s*tal 2/ -                       1,010       1,675       4,290       7,835       9,975      14,140
3. Sorghos:     Stage 0      27,115     21,390      15,260      9,605         -           -          -           -       0.6                     16,270     16,270       12,835       9,155        5,765        -           -           -
stage 1 (a)   -           -         6,095      12,055      17,890      11,955        -          -       0.8                       -           -            -         4,875        9,645      14,310       9,565
Btaga 1 (b)   -          5,900      5,705        -           -           -          -            -      0.9                       -           -           5,310      5,135         -           -            -
Stage 2 (s)   -           _          -            560       9,985      12,645     23,720      23,720    1,15                      -           _            -           -            645      11,485       14,540     27,280
Otrge 2 (b)   -           -          -          5,200       1.340       4.715      5.840       5.840    1.25                                                 _       -            6.500       1,675        5.895      7.300
Total     27.115      27,290     27.060      27.420      29.215      29.315     29.560      29.360                Total       16.270      16,270       18.145     19.165       22.555      27.470      302000      34 580
I-ore -etl 2/               -          (770)    (1,320)      (1,550)    (1,430)    (1 205)    <1,205)                Icraesetaî 2/-                         1,770      2,465        5,310       9,010       11,540     16,120
4. Groundnuts:  St-ge 0       6,555      5,200       3,705      2.310         -           -          -           -       0.6                      3,935       3,935       3,120       2,225        1,385        -            -
Stage 1       -          1,395      2,785       2,830       4,180       2,795       -                   0.0                       -           -           1,115      2,230        2,265       3,345        2,235       -
Otage 2       -       _          _              1.415       2.765       4.245      7.180       7.180    1.1                                                                       1.555       3.040       4.670       7.900
Total      6.155       639 5      6.7490      6.35        6.945       7.040      3.100       7.189                 Total       3.955      _3.935        4.235      4,455        5.2_05      6.SR5        6."5l    S7800
Tnereoeetntl 2/      -                (2350)      (420)        <550>      (455)      (315)       (315)             I-essntal 2/ -             -             275         410       1,020       1,885        2,405      3,400
5. Ceepsas:     Otage 0       6,285      4,950       3,530      2,220         -           -          -           -       0.325                    2,045       2,045       1,610       1,150          720        -            -          -
Btage 1       -          1,375      2,770       2,820       4,170       2,820       -           -       0.475                     -           -             655       1,315       1,540       1,980        1,340        -
Otage 2       -           -          -          1.365       2.675       4.090      6.965       6.965    0.675                     -           '            -          -             920       1.805        2.760      4700
Total      6.285       6,325      6.300       6.405        6.843       6.910     6.965       6.965                 Total      2L045        2.045        2.265      2.465        2.980       3.785       4,100       4.700
Inrceeentel 2/  -          -           (130)      (255)       (20)        (215)       (160)      (160)              Ieersssantnl 2/ -          -             210         370          815      1,470        1,785       2,385
(b) Non-cotton fa-rese 1
1. Miata:       Otage 0       3,755      3,500       3,045      2,395          710         755        890        890    0.7                       2,630       2,630       2,450       2,130        1,675         300         530         625
Otage 1       -            255        730         955       1,925       1,335       -           -       1.0                       -           -             255         730          955      1,925        1,335        -
Otage 2       -           _          -            465       1,245       1.945      3.315 5     3315    1.55                       -           _            _           _             720      1.930        3.015       5140
Total      3,755       3.755      3.775      3.815        3.880       4.035      4.205       4,205                 Total       2.60        2.630        2.705       2.860       3.350       4.355        4.880      5,765
Inceeesaotaî   -           -          -             60         125         280         450        450               Incossotal    -            -              75         230          720      1,725        2,250       3,135
2. Sorghos:     Btage 0       6,095      5,675       4,975      3,965        1,280       1,320      1,345       1,345    0.6                      3,660       3,660       3,405       2,985        2,360         770          790        810
stage 1       -            420      1,130       1,465       2,995       2,020        -          -       0.8                       -           -             335         905        1,170      2,395        1,615
Otage 2       -                -     Z -          700       tg89        2 930      300         5.030    .131                                   -           - -           _            05      2.288        3.370       51785
Toto1      6.095        31095160105           6.130                              6.575       6.375    __           Total       5.660       3.660        3.740       3.890       4.355       5.345       5___         6_595
8tae 2eta1      -           -            10          35          75         175         280        280               In,esntal    -              .             80         230          695      1,685        2,115       2,935
3. Oreedsete:  Stage 0        1,565      1,455       1,280      1,020          330         385        375         375    0.6                        940         940          875        770          610         200          230        225
Stage 1       -            110        290         380         780         525        -          -       0.8                        -          -              90         230          305        625          420        -
S 8age 2      - 7                    _            190         520         795       1.410      1.410    1.1                        -            _          -           -             210        570          875       1.550
Total      1.565       1,65       1,570       1.590       1,630       1.705        7         1.785                 Total         940         940          965       10           L125       1.395        1.525       1.775
TInreereascl    -           -             5          25          65         140         220        220               Iseresaeetsl    -          _              25          60          185        455          585         835
4. Ce7peas:    stage 0        1,400      1,305       1,135        890          265         285        325         325    0.325                      455         455          425        370          290          85           95         105
trage 1       -             95        275         355         720         500        -          -       0.475                      -          -              45         130          170        340          235
Stage 2       -           _           -           170         460         720       1.235      1.235    0.675                      - _        - _          - _         -_            115        310          485         835
Total      1.400       1.400      1.410       1.41-5      1,5         1.305        16.36     1._560                Total          455        455          470         500          575        735          81-5        940
Tntreoeetal     -           -            10          15          43         105         160        160               Increregstl    -                                      4 15  54    120        280          360         485
Note:                                                                 n
If Nveb-r of p-rtcipattig cottes fseners              20,800     24,800      28,150      33,000
NIbae ef parttcipatlig ses-cottes   rs              1.045      2,140       3.285       5.590
Total satbse et parttciîPSts                     21.84      26,940      31.435      38.590
2/  Tserye.stn} food  -rop ares apd prosdotite
-  55 teslsg fron eroejet set er aoteeeseou  8resth.                                                                                                                                            
Assense Ohat tithout erejt sottes prodOOttOs
ores .olO at beat resil  <.taIe  thon.s
s               e1 a23u  Çreto  aisr  feio£gres 7 
area aetiostsd ot aboot 10% per ans, bu  fer
(Oste0îdîn culti0dnddjbtmcoctoni. -d.rs. figsre o
t  ', '



BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COTTON PRICE STRUCTURE
FINANCIAI PRICES (1980 PRICES)                  ECONOMIC PRICES (1980 PRICES)
1982        1985         1990                   1982         1985         1990
COTTON LINT
MEXICAN SM 1 1/16", CIF
NORTHERN EUROPE 1/                     2,028.3       2,390.5       2,463.0
QUALITY A,DJUSTMENT (15%)                   304.2         358.8         369.5
VALUE, BENIN COTTON LINT (CIF)            1,724.1       2,031.7       2,093.5
FREIGHT, TRANSIT 2/                  144.8         144.8         144.8
INSIJRANCE (1% CIF)                   17.2          20.3          20.9
VALUE, BENIN COTTON LINT FOB              1,562.1       1,866.6       1,927.8
(000 CFAF)
FOB EQUIVALENT, CFAF                        328.0         392.0         404.8                  328.0         392.0        404.8
EXPORT DUTY (10%)                             4.2           4.2           4.2                    -             - 
TRANSIT & HANDLING 3/                        12.6          12.6          12.6                   12.1          12.1         12.1.
TRANSPORT & HANDLING BORGOU/COTCNOU           38.1         38.1          38.1                   38.1          38.1         38.1
GINNING COSTS                                25.0          25.0          25.0                   25.0          25.0         25.0
248.1        312.1         324.9                  252.8         316.8        329.6
SEED COTTON EQUIVALENT 5/                    92.8         120.2         125.1                   94.5         122.0        126.9
VALUE 0F COTTONSEED 6/                         5.2          5.7           5.7                    6.7           6.7          6.7
VALUE 0F SEED COTTON-                        98.5         125.9         131.8                  101.2         128.7        133.6
PRIMARY MARKETING COSTS 7/                   17.5          17.5          17.5                   17.2          17.2         17.2
a. PRESENT FABMGATE PRICES                 55.0          55.0          55.0                   84.0         111.5        116.4
SURPLUS                              26.0          53.4          58.3
SURPLUS, COMMISSIONS EXCLUDED        29.7          57.1          62.0
b. PROPOSED FARMGATE PRICES 8/              61.0         80.0          80.0
SURPLUS                              20.0          28.4          33.3
SURPLUS, COMMISSIONS EXCLUDED 9/   23.7            32.1          37.0
1/ IBRD. EPDCE Report 814/80, February 1980
2/Includes SONACEB commission of 1% CIF price
3/Includes SONACEB overheads                                                                                                                         C
4/Includes SONAGRI commission of 3,300 CFAF and overhead                                                                                             >
~/Converted at 37.47. lint in 1982, 38.5%. in 1985 and 1990                                                                                        , 
6/From calculation, working papers
7/Includes CARDER commission of 1,000 CFAF/ton of seed cotton and personnel charges
8/Financial-price is official price of CFAF 55/kg increased to levels required to cover increased costs of production
and maintain competitive position of cotton vis a vis maize (see para 7.10)
9/ SONACEB - OFAF 3,158/t lint; SONAGRI - CFAF 3,888/t lint; CARDER - CFAF 1,000/t seed cotton; converted to ton of
seed cotton basis. These amounts represent payments to the organisations involved in excess of actual costs of
operations and are, therefore, discressionary funds.
August 1, 1980



-52-                                  Annex 2
BENIN
BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMEST PROJECT
Model Structure of Cotton Bar&gme
PRODUCER PRICE
10    Producer Price
2.        PRIMARY MARKETING COST
20    Market Randling Cost
21    District Handling Cost
22    District Level Transport Cost
23    CARDER's Operating Cost
24    Seed Dressing and Distribution Cost
25    Market/Factory Transport Cost
26    Seed Cotton Fire Insurance Cost
NET VALUE SEED-COTTON AT FACTORY'S WEIGHING STATION (1) f (2)
3.        SONAGRI'S GINNING COST
30    Net Value Fiber at Factory's Weighing Station
31    Ginning Cost
32    Baling Cost
33    Transport Factory/Cotonou
34    SONAGRI's Operating Cost
35    Fiber Fire Insurance Cost
36    Bank's Interest Charges
COST TO SONACEB (3)
4.         SONACEB'S HANDLING COST
40    Ex-SONAGRI's Factory Cost (Total 3)
41    Warehouse Renting Cost
42    Handling Cost
43    Quality Assessment Cost
44    SONACEB's Operating Cost
45    Pest Control Cost
46    Port Fee
47    Transit Fee
EX-SONACEB'S WAREHOUSE COST (4)
5.         FOB COST
50    Ex Sonaceb's Warehouse Coet (Total 4)
51    Export Tax and Custon Fee
52    Sampling and Arbitration Cost
53    Fire Insurance Cost
54    Bank's Interest Charges
NET VALUE FOB COTONOU (5)
6.        CAF COST
60    Net Value FQB Cotonou (Total 5)
61    Sea Freight Cost
62    Sea Insurance Cost
63    On-Board Handling Cost
64    Brokerage Cost
65    Bank's Interest Charges
TOTAL CAF COST (6)
7.        FAS INPUT SUBSIDY COST
70    Total CAF Cost
71    Input Subsidy Cost
72    Input Distribution Cost
TOTAL COST, INCLUDING INPUT SUBSIDY (7)



BENIN - BORGOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIGRAM
MINISTRY 0F RURAL
DEVELOPMENT AND                                  -    OTHER MINISTRIES
COOPERATIVE ACTION                                      AND INSTITUTIONS
PROJECT MONITORING
AND EVALUATION               P _ ROJECT MANAGER  _        COORDINATOR        -          SONAGRI
UNIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ASSISTANT PROJECT                                                                              ASST. PROJ. MAN.
MANAGER TECHNICAL                                                     CONTROLLER                ADMINISTRATION
I. DIVISION OF          Il. EXTENSION TRAINING                                                                           IV. FIN
LAND USE        -       AND COOPERATIVE                  I. TECHNICAL      -                                           ADMINISTRATION  _
SERVICES                SERVICES DIVISION        T        DIVISION                                                         DIVISION
j    AGRICULTURAL    |
OFFICER           J
SUB-SECTOR CHIEF    1
L  EXTENSION AGENT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Note: Division I includes sections: Weil Construction, Bottomlands and Garage/Workshop
Division 11 includes sections: Extension, Training, Cooperatives, Home Economics and Training Centre
Division 111 includes sections: Agricultural Demonstrations, Seed Production, Water and Forest Resources,
Livestock Resources and Oxen Cultivation
Division IV includes sections: Administration, Accounting, Credit Administration, Input Administration,
Marketing and Transport Coordination                                                                                       World Bank-21908



t



J   N IG   R3
ç                                    j~~~~~~~~~~un
t.
,.                 .,
ui<eou                         garue u Deo
NDI~ ~ ~~~"
v                                                                                                  10'~8
\       jRero               < 
12-PR                          REPUUC 0                 12-
U~~~~~~~~~~ PRA PEEOMN EPRVOOJTAECTMlovi
-              o         c
, w 6   4      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                 isohye i N rilireter
B' ter ot Prvicalcaitl
<?r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~POL' R/UBI OF -\-BENhrmr'  AN
P          Nitiona s candCnt
Kilibo groi-----Prgov                Poun ies
é°oOo?/<) ,-                  |          bus  E j M, dl      O   0   0   0   0 
<c.                                             K~~~~~~~~~~eo isomyete nrsilmtr
t°°~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~at |roeDds 
° l~    JA                     'AKOU  ert                                ao
WoeId BanCs craC ero eoe/y for  ~~-   ID-   caociy irprt
fIe oo,,er,e_cs fouérouiniaof  jo  9-i
do faf me/r  / vie  ,A surn                     BORGOU    bOViE
Wo,Idaekaod,f afhai a/  i Ouda                                        /VR /(2  r                           J rni   iiin    n  etr
fIS', /ffff ff   gLlf  Gri a ndogo Pop                           OAS  /       s0ce
Crf feiilforoi,',4' /fefOiaii  -                        \                      HAAvPofoo Eorth- road
1                   2' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uM120                     4    S0     8 ~
6.                                                                     EQI OUIIA ZH P----
Aplah ue                                                      M  AiHa
-a-                t      l--         SIrz    ti°°                   *   InterotionalN Lrp NIGE          B
é      _                          +    DC 3  opacty aipofJ
~~he.e ~ -r ff1 -1                         /                      -     nefrt       bundre
4e    e\é>                 BHCO        dFp4   2Klmtr
ee~~ ~ te                                                                                    N--,-----)a
A;X---    9    4»«FS  Pob;      7-   \      MALI         r~~~~~~OT.GUIEA 



p             5                                                                                                                                   )>



PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC 0F BENIN                    23
BORGOQU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    N   G E R
Project Area with Principal Centers anid Locationi o! Development
Existing establishments:
*   SONAGRI garage and cotton ginneries                                                                                  K.p
CARDER garagefKmp -
MDRAC aigricultural reseorch centerKAIMA(
Proposed project developments:
Provincial CARDER trainiing center                                                                                                               t                              2
ir            ~~~Seed production farm                                                                                                                   h o
Primnary rocads                                              UP P ER                                                                                  LANV11-LLE\
Secondory roads                                                                                                                    Tcm6utc.   -
Tracks                                                       VOLTA                                                                                        a
-o-+--4   Railway                                                                                                 -          . 
Zt.-Rivers
®  Provincial capitaile
©  District copitals
Provincial boundorles
International bounidaries                                                                    jnve
I/~~~~~~~~~~ ¶0/~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~
é'e- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ocgos 
-H..                                                                                                                                             Gbé~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JGbcoo  WrdBnj  tffecc,c/ o
thEGBAN,cc  fth ccto o
T  A    f-C,  0   R                                              131n,~~~~~~~~~~c ~ OhALf't                    theecntt w/-co l/cattch
S4bn  ~      oo~                                          htdtootG,atcnOUNO  ntth
~~~~,-G  O  ù'~~coaoe ttco n oo to
K-ndé                                                               D-k...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3dcotw~  nth tt ftt
NATITINGOU                                 INENDE~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   /k    .                                    at ac c tcofcte  c
Santon                     tjctccttt att th lacs! tatcALc
4  tetnbnrtco                                                                     ytoootcojoco corMBÉRÉKco'ccn
à.                                                                   'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oospao  focoocaoa
NER 4       E    1J
K                                                              1h~~~~ai--C   w~-N-i 1h
___________________________                   BO/covio4                      6                           ci.    5            r6- r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~hA .-~d
o  o  20  30  t                                          4                                  $                         IVORO  k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKD  Tih~?  -. -d  c -
___________________________                   t                                 i                          CGASr/   ANS0lPcotoNo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w ~ c' -C d,g
Miles~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"b                                                                                                              d-
To Cc/coton  ?  j  To Colos   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~N1                                                 ON)



