OFOAL         CREDIT NUMBER UtBEN
DOC UMEKNTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Borgou Province Rural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBERt-TBEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Gjt_,_aS              , 1981, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN (her6inafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for
a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to eleven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Coopera-
ting Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association
shall have accepted such appointment;
(D) in order to assist the Borrower in financing the pre-
paration of the Project the Association has granted an advance
by an exchange of letters dated October 1, 1980 and October 9,
1980 and intends to grant an additional advance by a further
exchange of letters; said advances (hereinafter called the
Advances) total   an amount equivalent to $600,000 and shall be
refunded out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
(E) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
January 14, 1981, the Association has extended a credit
(No. 1090 BEN) to the Borrower to assist, inter alia, in the
construction of feeder roads identified as essential to the
Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MDRAC" means the Ministere de Dveloppement Rural et
de l'Action Coopgrative, the Borrower's Ministry lesponsible for
rural development, or any successor thereto;
(b) "DRA" means the D6partement de la Recherche Agronomique
in the Borrower's Ministry responsible for agricultural research,
or any successor thereto;
(c) "CARDER Statutes" means the statutes approved by the
Borrower's Ordinance No. 75-84 of December 29, 1975, as such
statutes may be amended from time to time; "CARDER" means
Centre d'Action Regionale pour le Developpement Rural, esta-
blished and operating pursuant to the CARDER Statutes; "CARDER-
Borgou" means the CARDER responsible for the Borgou province;
and "Genie Rural" means the land use services and rural engineer-
ing division of CARDER-Borgou;
(d) "GRVC" means Groupement Revolutionnaire ' Vcation
Coop6rative, a farmers' cooperative existing under the laws of
the Borrower;
(e) "PMEU" means the Project monitoring and evaluation unit
to be established under Section 4.06 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(f) "PCU" means the Project coordinating unit to be
established under Section 4.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(g) "SONAGRI Statutes" means the statutes approved by Decree
No. 75-338 of December 29, 1975, of the Borrower, as such statutes
may be amended from time to time; "SONAGRI" means the Soci&te
Nationale pour la Production Agricole, established and operating
pursuant to the SONAGRI Statutes;
(h) "CAA" means the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, which
forms a part of the Borrower's Ministry responsible for financial
affairs, or any successor thereto;
(i) "CFA Francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de
la Communaute Financiere Africaine, the common currency of
the Borrower and the other members of the West African Monetary
Union;
(j) "Fund Loan Account" means the Loan Account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement; and
(k) "Advance Account" (Project Account) means the account
referred in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III hereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1991, and ending November 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time to time pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) After the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all
unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Advances shall be automatically cancelled as of the
same date.


﻿5
Section'3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds to
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by
the Association, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 58:42, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Association
and the Fund.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement; and
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the


﻿-6-
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof shall
continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited
or to be credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or
cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to
pay, notwithstandirg any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and of other
fertilizers and insecticides for cotton required for the Project,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall (i) cause CARDER-Borgou
to carry out Parts A, B (ii) and G of the Project and, together
with SONAGRI, Part B (i) of the Project, (ii) carry out Part C of
the Project through DRA and Parts D and E of the Project through


﻿-7-
MDRAC, in coordination with CARDER-Borgou, and (iii) cause SONAGRI
to carry out Part F and, together with CARDER-Borgou, Part B (i)
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative,
financial and engineering practices and the Borrower shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for such purposes.
(b) The Borrower shall make available, on a grant basis
(i) to CARDER-Borgou the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund
Loan allocated for Parts A, B, C, D, E and G of the Project,
and (ii) to SONAGRI the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund
Loan allocated for Part F of the Project.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to its obligations under Section 4.01
of this Agreement and without any limitation upon the generality
thereof, the Borrower shall:
(a) ensure the availability to SONAGRI by October 31 of each
year of the funds necessary for the purchase of the production
inputs for Part B (i) of the Project;
(b) (i) for the purposes of the Project open an Advance
Account in the name of CARDER-Borgou at CAA on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation with an initial deposit of 250 million
CFAF; and
(ii) thereafter, to cover local costs, make deposits in
said Account at the beginning of each quarter on
the basis of the needs of the Project and support-
ing documentation for expenses incurred; the amount
of such deposits shall be sufficient to meet
Project expenditures for the immediately following
quarterly period.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall (i) by September 1,
1981, or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree, establish under the supervision of MDRAC and thereafter
maintain in existence, at least until completion of the Project,
the PCU and nominate and employ until completion of the Project
a full-time Project coordinator, and (ii) nominate (1) a Project
manager and (2) a deputy Project manager responsible for finance
and administration, who shall be employed by CARDER-Borgou on a
permanent, full-time basis.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The qualifications and experience of the personnel
described in paragraph (a) of this Section shall at all times
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants and specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, including, in particular: (i) for
CARDER-Borgou, (1) a deputy manager responsible for technical
development, (2) a financial controller, (3) a chief accountant,
(4) a seeds production specialist, (5) an input supply, credit
and marketing specialist and (6) a training          specialist;
(ii) for SONAGRI, a financial controller and a chief accountant;
(iii) for MDRAC, an agroeconomist to supervise the PMEU; and
(iv) for DRA, a cotton research specialist for the research
station at Cotonou and one foodcrop specialist for the research
station at Ina.
(b) The Borrower shall assign, or cause to be assigned,
experienced and qualified Beninese personnel to work in close
cooperation with the consultants and specialists referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be. payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's and the Fund's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without any limitation upon the generality of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause CARDER-
Borgou for each Part of the Project, and SONAGRI (for Parts B (i)
and F of the Project) to furnish to the Association quarterly
progress reports; such quarterly progress reports shall be pre-
pared according to a format acceptable to the Association, and
include such detailed financial and budgetary information as
the Association may reasonably request.
(d) Without any limitation upon the generality of paragraph
(b) of this Section, the Borrower shall, by September 1, 1981, or
such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree:
(i) establish under the supervision of MDRAC and thereafter
maintain in existence at least until completion of the Project the
PMEU provided for under Part D of the Project; (ii) shall prepare
and furnish to the Association for its review and concurrence a
detailed work program for the PMEU, and thereafter, promptly
implement such work program, as approved by the Association.
(e) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund, the Association may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(f) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Borgou: (i) to
furnish to the Association its proposed work plan and associated
budget for the first year of Project execution for review and
concurrence and thereafter promptly implement such work plan and
associated budget, as approved by the Association; and (ii) by
October 31 of each year until completion of the Project, to
furnish to the Association its proposed annual work plan and
associated budget for the following year for review and concur-
rence and thereafter promptly implement such work plan and asso-
ciated budget, as approved by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Borgou and
SONAGRI to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI,
including without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting their operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project and identifying, inter alia, all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account, or from the Fund Loan Account, on the basis of certi-
ficates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI
to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account, or from the Fund Loan Account, on the
basis of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the
Association's and the Fund's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI
to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance


﻿- 11 -
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to in Section 5.01 (b) hereof as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, or from the Fund Loan
Account, on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower other than CARDER-Borgou and SONAGRI,
responsible for carrying out any Part of the Project.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Borgou and
SONAGRI to each take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to each make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Borgou
and SONAGRI to manage their affairs, to carry out their operations
and to maintain their financial position in accordance with
appropriate administrative, economic, financial and agricultural
practices, under qualified and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) cause CARDER-Borgou
and SONAGRI to maintain adequately the buildings, equipment,
vehicles, and other facilities provided under the Project, and


﻿- 12 -
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof; and (ii)
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 5.04. (a) To ensure adequate cotton production
incentives the Borrower shall, by March 31 for each year of the
Project, set the minimum price for seed cotton to be paid to
producers on delivery in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) To recover an adequate portion of its costs for the
support of cotton production the Borrower shall: (i) progressively
raise the price charged to farmers for fertilizers and insecti-
cides to levels satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
and (ii) (A) for the 1981/82 cotton campaign, charge interest at
the rate of at least 11% per annum for seasonal and medium term
credits to cotton growers for financing production inputs and
agricultural equipment and (B) for subsequent campaigns, adjust
such interest rate in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
(c) To ensure that costs in the cotton sector are properly
reflected the Borrower shall introduce for the 1981/82 cotton
campaign a revised cotton bareme, satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1983, take
all action necessary to cause farmers in the Borgou province to
pay for improved seed for foodcrops furnished to such farmers,
such payment to be sufficient to cover the Borrower's costs in
producing and distributing such seed.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CARDER-Borgou or SONAGRI or for the suspension of their
respective operations;


﻿- 13 -
(b) the SONAGRI Statutes or the CARDER Statutes shall have
been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of SONAGRI or
CARDER-Borgou; and
(c) (i) subject to subparag-Lph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
prc-eeds of the Fund Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) the Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:


﻿- 14 -
(a) the execution on behalf of the Borrower of the Fund Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action and all other conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the Fund Loan Agreement
(save for the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been duly
fulfilled; and the Fund has appointed the Association, with
the concurrence of the Borrower, as Cooperating Institution to
administer the Fund Loan on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association;
(b) the Advance Account has been opened as provided in
paragraph (b) (i) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement and the
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association
that the initial deposit of 250 million CFAF into said Account has
been made;
(c) the Project manager referred to in Section 4.03
(a) (ii) (1) of this Agreement has been nominated in accordance
with the provisions of said Section and has assumed his duties;
and
(d) the first work plan and associated budget to be
furnished to the Association under Section 4.07 (i) of this
Agreement has been approved by the Association.
Section 7.02. The date     Cb)".   ' k  -         is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.03 (a) (ii) and Article V of this Agreement and the provisions
of paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on a date ten years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date established by the
Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall have
accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund Loan
Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the provi-
sions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the
Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to remain,


﻿- 15 -
in force and effect but only to the extent required for the
purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the case described
in the foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall apply only to
the responsibilities of the Association as such Cooperating
Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       5009 or
Cotonou                            5289
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By           )i-Xk               a""",kt;
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in SDR      (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Insecticides,        2,400,000      1,700,000     100% of in-
fertilizers and                                  cremental
other produc-                                    expenditures
tion inputs for
Part B of the
Project
(2) Civil works          1,100,000        800,000     72%
and buildings
(3) Equipment              600,000        550,000     72%
(4) Vehicles:
(a) for Parts       1,100,000        750,000     100%
A, B, C,
D and E
of the
Project
(b) for Part          550,000        400,000     100%
F of the
Project


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in SDR      (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(5) Local personnel
and other opera-
ting costs:
(a) for Parts A,     5,000,000    3,600,000      72%
B, C, D,
and E of
the Project
(b) for Part F         500,000      350,000      72%
of the
Project
(6) Consultants'          2,350,000    1,750,000      100%
services,
studies and
scholarships
(7) Refunding of            500,000        nil        Amount due
Advances
(8) Unallocated           1,600,000     1,100,000
TOTAL     15,700,000    11,000,000
2.   "Incremental expenditures" means the amount of expenditures
for insecticides, fertilizers and other production inputs for Part
B of the Project during any fiscal year of the Borrower over and
above the total amount of such expenditures for insecticides,
fertilizers and other production inputs made available by CARDER-
Borgou to farmers in Borgou province during the previous fiscal
year.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on


﻿- 19 -
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect nf any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Association and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of
the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category or Subcategory will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or Subcategory, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category or Subcategory, to
the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan which are then allocated to
another Category or Subcategory and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category or Subcategory is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or
the Fund Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand agricultural production
and improve the management and technical infrastructure of the
cotton sub-sector in the Borrower's Borgou province so as to raise
the income and living standards of farmers in such province and
promote the Borrower's export trade. To achieve this purpose the
Project includes in particular the strengthening and support of
the institutions responsible for the sub-sector and the provision
of improved extension, cooperative, training and social services
in such province, primarily for the benefit of small individual
farmers and GRVCs.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Expansion and Improvement of the technical infra-
structure and field activities of CARDER-Borgou
(i) The strengthening and reorganization of the management
of CARDER-Borgou.
(ii) The construction, reconstruction and equipping of
CARDER-Borgou facilities.
(iii) The strengthening and reorganization of extension
services, including the restructuring of such services
through the implementation of a training and visit
system, and the expansion of such services for animal
traction methods.
(iv) The consolidation of existing, and creation of new,
GRVCs.
(v) The establishment and initial operation of a training
center at Ina and scholarships for personnel involved
in Project execution.
(vi) The establishment and initial operation of a seed
multiplication unit at Alafiarou and the construction
and initial operation of a seed processing plant at
Parakou.


﻿- 21 -
(vii) (A) The improvement of the civil engineering techniques
employed by Genie Rural, (B) the establishment and
initial operation of a bottomland development unit
within Genie Rural for the rehabilitation of about 500
ha of bottomlands, and (C) the construction or recon-
struction of about 130 wells.
Part B:   Production Inputs and Agricultural Equipment
(i) The supply to farmers of improved production inputs,
together with improvement in the acquisition and distri-
bution system for such production inputs.
(ii) The provision of agricultural credit to farmers for
purchase of production inputs and of about 4,000 units
of equipment for the use of draft animals.
Part C:   Agricultural Research
Agricultural research on foodcrops and on cotton growing
to be carried out at the DRA stations in Ina and in Cotonou,
respectively.
Part D:   Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Establishment and operation of a Project monitoring and
evaluation unit at Parakou.
Part E:   Project Coordinating Unit
Establishment and operation of a Project coordinating
unit, to coordinate execution of the Project, which will be
based at Cotonou, under the supervision of MDRAC.
Part F:   Strengthening of SONAGRI
The strengthening of SONAGRI's financial management proce-
dures and cotton processing and marketing systems.
Part G:   Studies
(i) Bottomlands inventory and associated crop development
study in the Borgou province.


﻿- 22 -
(ii) A study on the feasibility of a possible follow-up
project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Contracts for similar items will be grouped to the extent
possible in order to derive maximum benefits from bulk procure-
ment.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 24 -
B.    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Benin may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Benin if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Benin equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3. In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4. If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 25 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association, provided, however, that the aggregate price of
the contracts so awarded shall not exceed $2,500,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of a solicitation
of price quotations from at least three reputable suppliers,
provided, however, that the aggregate price of the contracts so
awarded shall not exceed $1,600,000 equivalent.
3.   Contracts for the construction of buildings and dams may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 26 -
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 L.
FOR SEC ETARY


