Report No. 1305-ZR                                                                  FILE  COPY
Zaire Ituri Livestock Development Project
Appraisal Report
February 23, 1977
Eastern Africa Region
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -  Zaire (Z), Z 1.00 = 100 makuta (k)
Z 1.0(             -  1 SDR (Special Drawing Right) = US$1.15
US$1.(O            -  Z 0.87
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)    -  2.471 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)   -  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 ton (metric)    -  1,000 kg (2,205 lb)
1 liter            -  0.26 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CELZA     -  Cultures et Elevages du Zaire
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
DPN       -  Le Domaine Presidentiel de la N'Sele
FMC       -  French Ministry of Co-operation
FRG       -  Federal Republic of Germany
INERA     -  Institut National pour l'Etude et la
Recherche Agronomiques
(National Institute for Agronomic Study
and Research)
IPU       -  Ituri Project Unit
ONDE      -  Office National de Developpement
de l'Elevage
(National Ranching Development Authority)
SDR       -  Special Drawing Right
SGA       -  Societe Generale d'Alimentation
SOFIDE    -  Societe Financiere pour le Developpement
Economique
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  .................................                                  i-iv
I.     INTRODUCTION  .................................................                                     1
II.      BACKGROUND  ..............................................                                         2
A.     General  ..... .................. ..... ................                                    2
B.     The  Agricultural  Sector  .....                    .................... .                  3
C.     Beef  Cattle  Sector  .....                  ...................... .                       3
D.     Agricultural. Services  ..............................                                      4
Ili.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  ........................................                                        4
IV.      THE  PROJECT  ..... ......................                                                         7
A.     General  Description  ................................                                      7
B.   Detailed Features ..................................                                          7
C.     Project  Costs  .......              ..................... ..........                     12
D.     Financing  ......................................................                         14
E.     Procurement  ........................................                                     16
F.     Disbursement  .......              ..............   ................ .                    16
G.     Accounts  and  Audit  .................................                                   17
V.     ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  .............................                                      17
VI.      PRODUCTION,  MARKETS,  PRICES  AND  FINANCIAL  RESULTS  .......                                   20
A.   Production, Markets, Prices and Financial Results  ..    20
B.     Marketing  ..........................................                                     20
C.     Prices  .............................................                                     21
D.     Financial  Results  ...............                  ..       .................           22
VII.      ECONOMIC  BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  .....................                                     23
VIII.       RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................                                        25
SCHEDULE A
This document hus à restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwi e be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- 2-
ANNEXES
1.   Beef Production, Marketing, Prices and Demand
Table 1 - Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin
Table 2 - Meat Production
Table 3 - Volume of Imports of Principal Agricultural Products
Table 4 - Livestock Population 1959-1973
2.   Marketing and Meat Processing in Ituri and Haut-Zaire
Table  1 - Sales of Cattle
Production of Beef, Hides and Skins
Table  2 - Cattle Demand Projections
Table  3 - Official Slaughter Records in Haut-Zaire
Table  4 - Official Ituri Market Records
Table  5 - Permit Transit Records
Table 6 - Meat Retail Prices
Table  7 - Markets, Stock Route and Rural Slaughterhouses
Investment Costs
Table  8 - Markets, Stock Route Operating Costs and Revenue
Table  9 - Rural Slaughterhouse Operating Costs and Revenues
3.   Agriculture and Livestock Husbandry in the Traditional Sector
in Zaire
Table  1 - Rainfall Records
Table  2 - Climatic Data - Nioka
Table  3 - Area Stocking Rate, Stock Ownership and Cropping
Area - 1974
Table  4 - Estimate of Income from Traditional Cattle Herd
Table  5 - New Technical Staff Requirement, Building Program
and Number of Stock to be Dipped and Receive
Medicines and Inoculants
Table  6 - Disposition of Staff in Zones
Table  7 - Growth of Cattle, Goats and Sheep Population in the
Traditional Areas
Table 8 - Ituri Cattle and Population Density by Collectivities -
1974
Table  9 - Distribution of Dips, Spray Races, Dispensaries, Stores
and Dispensary Housing
Table 10 - Financing of Revolving Fund for Drugs, Inoculants
and Dips
Table 11 - Suggested Deployment of Infirmiers in Relation to
Siting of Dips
Table 12 - Veterinary and Animal Production Services - Investment
Costs
Table 13 - Veterinary and Animal Production Services - Staff Salaries
and Allowances
Table 14 - Veterinary and Animal Production Services - Operating
Costs
Table 15 - Estimate of Dip Construction Costs



- 3 -
Table 16 - Ituri Herd Projection
Table 17 - Quantity and Value of Increased Production from the
Ituri Cattle Herd
4.   Training
Appendix 1 - Training Courses for Veterinary Staff in Zaire
Table 1 - Ngabu Training Unit - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Ngabu Training Unit - Operating Costs
Table 3 - Investment and Operating Costs of Film and Visual Aids
Unit and Upkeep Costs for Project Student Courses at
Totoba and Gopka
5.   Ranches
Table 1 - Source and Application of Funds
Table 2 - Kerekere Ranch - Herd Projection
Table 3 - Kerekere Ranch - Investment Costs
Table 4 - Kerekere Ranch - Income and Operating Costs
Table 5 - Kerekere Ranch - Source and Application of Funds
Table 6 - Asada Ranch - Herd Projection
Table 7 - Asada Ranch - Investment Costs
Table 8 - Asada Ranch - Income and Operating Costs
Table 9 - Asada Ranch - Source and Application of Funds
Table 10 - Dele Ranch - Herd Projection
Table 11 - Dele Ranch - Investment Costs
Table 12 - Dele Ranch - Income and Operating Costs
Table 13 - Dele Ranch - Source and Application of Funds
6.   Abattoirs
Table 1 - Bunia Abattoir - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Bunia Abattoir - Operating Costs
Table 3 - Bunia Abattoir - Operating Revenues
Table 4 - Bunia Abattoir - Purchase of Cattle
Table 5 - Bunia Abattoir - Throughput, Production of Meat,
Offals and By-Products
Table 6 - Bunia Abattoir - Labor Projection
Table 7 - Bunia Abattoir - Profit and Loss Projections
Table 8 - Kisangani Abattoir - Investment Costs
Table 9 - Kisangani Abattoir - Operating Costs
Table 10 - Kisangani Abattoir - Operating Revenues
Table Il - Kisangani Abattoir - Profit and Loss Projections
Table 12 - Abattoirs - Cash Flow
Diagram 1 - Bunia Abattoir Building Alterations
Diagram 2 - Bunia Abattoir Addition to Main Building



- 4 -
7.   National Ranching Development Authority (ONDE)
Table 1 - Consolidated Balance Sheet - ONDE - 1975
Table  2 - Account of General Operation - ONDE - 1975
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account - ONDE - 1975
Table  3 - Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account 1974 and 1975
8.   Ituri Project Unit
Appendix 1 - Project Organization Chart
Appendix 2 - Terms of Reference and Qualifications of Ituri
Project Unit Staff
9.   Costs of Studies, Project Evaluation and Financial Adviser to ONDE
10.   Project Reporting and Monitoring
11.   Implementation Schedule
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Financial Rates of Return
Table 1 - Ranches
Table 2 - Kisangani and Bunia Abattoirs
14.   Governnent Cash Flow
15.   Economic Evaluation
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculations for Project
Table 2 - Economic Rate of Return Calculations for Major
Project Components
MAP
Ituri Livestock Development Project (IBRD - 11916)



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Republic of Zaire has considerable potential for livestock pro-
duction, yet it imports large quantities of meat products. In order to reju-
venate the livestock sector and to cut down beef imports, in 1972 Zaire com-
menced a program to rehabilitate large ranches; in support of this program,
IDA in 1973 provided a Credit (No. 398-CK) for US$8.5 million to establish
a National Ranching Authority (ONDE) whose initial responsibility included
the dtvelopment of three ranches in Shaba province.  In order to complement
this development, and as part of a broad effort to increase smallholder incomes,
Government now wishes to undertake the rehabilitation of the traditional live-
stock areas through the provision of improved veterinary and animal production
services, and through the introduction of better marketing and slaughter
facilities. The proposed Project would support this effort in Ituri sub-region,
Zaire's largest traditional cattle area, where nearly 300,000 cattle are kept
by about 18,600 small livestock owners. The production attributable to the
Project would meet future demand in the region and would also allow
increased shipment of beef to other parts of Zaire, mainly Kinshasa. The
approach utilized in the Project would, if successful, be a forerunner to
other livestock and perhaps general rural development programs in Zaire's
traditional farming areas.
ii.       The Project would undertake a major rural development effort in
Ituri sub-region by developing an overall livestock improvement program
for small farmers. This program would be initially directed at cattle improve-
ment, but would also examine and promote the improvement of other classes
of stock. Over 5 years the Project would provide dipping, inoculation,
veterinary treatment, clinical and animal production advisory services
for farmers throughout the cattle areas of Ituri. Initial emphasis would
be placed on improving animal health, although development of better animal
production methods should assume greater importance as the Project develops.
The primary objective would be to provide dipping cover for 80% of the cattle
in Ituri by year 5. As full advantage would only be obtained from dipping if
all animals in an area were dipped, compulsory dipping of all cattle within a
radius of 8 km of an operational dip or spray race would be introduced. It
would be proposed that farmers pay for the dipping materials. In the first
three years these would be charged at a subsidized price of 40% of their costs;
thereafter, the full charge would be levied. The animal production extension
effort would be directed at developing better grazing management through
grazing associations, stock control where necessary, improved cattle husbandry,
introduction of legumes, and of improved breeding stock. MIethods would
be examined to improve productivity of other stock such as sheep, goats,
pigs, poultry. In order to finish the large numbers of immatures or un-
finished animals presently slaughtered in the traditional areas and to
reduce the risk of over-stocking in some areas, the Project would provide
for the development of three existing ranches (Kerekere, Asada and Dele) in
the Ituri sub-region. Also, the municipal abattoirs at Kisangani and Bunia
would be re-equipped and run on a commercial basis. Finally the Project
would include provision for technical assistance for Project management,
studies, training of Project staff, and preparation of future projects in
the Ituri region.



- ii -
iii.   The Department of Agriculture would coordinate all Project activities
through a Project Policy and Co-ordinating Committee. Responsibility for
management and execution of the Project would be divided between an Ituri
Project Unit (IPU) in the Department of Agriculture which would be responsible
for the veterinary, animal production, marketing and rural slaughter services,
and the Office pour le Developpement de l'Elevage (ONDE) which would be respon-
sible for the ranches and abattoirs. Because of a shortage of experienced
and qualified personnel, the Project would provide 12 technical assistance
staff of different disciplines for 40 man-years for the veterinary and animal
production services (7), ONDE ranches and headquarters (2), abattoirs (2), and
for the training center (1).
iv.   Total Project cost is estimated at about Z 14.0 million (US$16.1 mil-
lion), of which approximately Z 7.9 million (US$9.1 million) or 56% rep-
resents foreign exchange requirements. The IDA, CIDA, FMC and FRG contri-
bution would together finance 83% of total project costs and cover all the
foreign exchange requirements (US$9.1 million) and 60% of local costs (US$4.2
million). The high level of local cost financing is presently justified by
the Government's difficult budgetary situation due mainly to recent high
world inflation and depressed world market prices of the country's main
revenue earner, copper. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would be on
standard terms to Government and meet all foreign exchange requirements not
covered by CIDA, FMC and FRG and 50% of the Project's local costs. CIDA
would provide not less than US$3.3 million to finance all foreign exchange
costs and 60% of local costs of the abattoir component (US$0.8 million),
the majority of operating veterinary supplies for IPU and ranches (US$2.1
million) and most study funds (US$0.4 million); with the exception of the
capital expenditures on the abattoirs which will be on a long term loan
on terms similar to IDA's the remainder of the Canadian contribution will be
on a grant basis. FMC would provide an estimated US$1.5 million as a grant
in the form of technical assistance for IPU. FRG would provide approximately
US$0.5 million as a grant to Government to cover the cost of developing
the Ngabu Training Center for staff training and the cost of an education
specialist for three years. Government would contribute US$2.8 million,
which would be partially offset to the extent that project costs include about
US$580,000 of taxes and duties. Government would, in addition, also maintain
over the project period the cost of existing veterinary and animal production
services in the project area estimated to cost US$2.0 million. Procurement of
vehicles (US$500,000) and veterinary materials and supplies (US$200,000) in
orders exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked
whenever possible. In the case of imported cattle purchases (US$160,000),
quotations would be sought for the delivery of suitable stock from neighboring
countries, through agents and/or farmers through press advertising in these
countries. The IPU and ONDE would review their annual requirements with the
objective of issuing joint tender documents whenever possible. Technical
assistance staff provided by IDA (for the ranches, studies, and the Finan-
cial Controller) estimated at a total cost of US$0.7 million would be
internationally recruited in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
All building construction and improvements (US$1.9 million) would, due to
their dispersed locations and diverse construction requirements, be carried



- iii -
out by local tender or by force account where no satisfactory contractors
operate or contractors costs are far in excess of estimates. Local purchasing
would be done by competitive bidding and normal commercial channels as appli-
cable using local procedures which are satisfactory.   Local breeding and
fattening cattle would be purchased by ONDE in Ituri markets.
v.        At full development in year 13, improved veterinary, animal hus-
bandry and marketing services would increase productivity of the traditional
cattle herd by reducing mortality, increasing liveweight at sale, improving
growth rates, increasing herd numbers (from 287,000 to 418,000 head), in-
creasing annual offtake (from 31,400 to 64,500 head) and raising milk yields.
The proposed fattening ranches would improve quality and finish 7,000 animals
annually from the traditional herds, as well as producing 1,280 animals from
their own breeding herds. At full development total incremental production
would be estimated at 33,500 head of cattle or the equivalent of some 4,000
tons of carcass meat. This would represent about 22% of Zaire's 1975 domestic
beef output. About 80% (3,200 tons) of the increased production would be
attributed to the smallholder development scheme, while the remainder (800
tons) would come from the ranch rehabilitation program.
vi.       The overall economic rate of return for the Project over 20 years
would be 29%. The Project would not be particularly sensitive to changes in
costs and benefits. A 10% increase in costs would reduce the Project's over-
all economic rate of return by 3 percentage points to 26%, while a 10% decrease
in benefits would reduce it by 4 percentage points to 25%. The Project economic
rate of return is therefore relatively favorable. However, if sunk costs (such
as existing dips, and abattoir facilities) were included, it would fall by 15
percentage points to 14%. Although the Project is relatively simple in
conception it has a high degree of risk, particularly in the smallholder and
abattoir components. The greatest risk would appear to be attached to the
implementation of the veterinary and animal production services for the
traditional sector. Although farmers and Government staff have considerable
enthusiasm for the Project there is no recent record of development in the
area on which to base likely farmer response.  When faced with having to pay
increasing costs for dips, medicines, fees, etc. and when asked to form
grazing associations, the response from farmers could in practice be much less
than is hoped for. The main risk involved in the implementation of the abattoir
component would be the failure of Government to adjust fees regularly, and the
chance that throughput could be lower than projected. Although the ranches
are somewhat less likely to encounter serious difficulties, some risk would
be involved if Government failed to adjust producer prices regularly.
vii.      The Project would create about 400 additional permanent jobs in
the veterinary services, ranches and abattoirs. About 18,600 pastoral
families would participate in the Project. Their present average income is
about Z 300 (US$345) or a per capita income of about Z 55 (US$63), which is
somewhat higher than the estimated absolute poverty level in Zaire of Z 20
(US$23). At full development about 26,000 families would have benefited from
the Project and the average total income would be about Z 423 (US$490), thus
appreciably improving the incomes and standard of living of one of the poorest
sections of Zaire's population.
viii.     The First Livestock Project (398-CK) is the first and only on-
going agricultural project in Zaire, although a Cotton Rehabilitation Project



- iv -
(1179-ZR) for US$8.0 million has recently been approved by the Board. The
f irst project has been slow getting underway and has experienced management
difficulties resulting in cattle losses, slower than anticipated improvements
in livestock performance and slow investment due in part to transport and
supply problems. The most serious aspect has been increase in costs and
failure of Government to adequately adjust producer prices (which were already
inadequate at the commencement of the project), resulting in negative financial
rates of return. In May 1976, Government producer prices were tripled over
the 1973 level (para 6.05E which only compensated for inflationary trends
in production costs and represented a small relative price increase for the
bottom grades but not for the top grade. The March 1976 supervision mission
has estima.ed that tctal Project cost calculated in Zaires has doubled,
reflecting r.id inflation during the past two years, the expected effects of
devaluation on costs and higher inflation rates forecast for the remainder of
the Project. In foreign exchange terms Project costs have increased 35%. It
estimated that the May prices would be insufficient to compensate for the
expected increase in the cost of capital by the end of 1976. The mission
therefore recommended a further 30% increase in the producer prices for late
1976. Government increased prices prior to Board presentation of this project
and this price increase should provide an adequate return on capital and al]ow
income from sales of stock to meet increased Project costs.
ix.        Subject to the required assurances and conditions, the proposed
Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million to the Govern-
ment of Zaire.



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.0i      The Republic of Zaire has considerable potential for livestock pro-
duction, yet it imports large quantities of meat products. Prior to 1960
Zaire had a growing beef sector based on the development of infrastructure
on large ranches and in the traditional farm sector. However, in the follow-
ing decade development ceased, many ranches were destocked and infrastructure
both in the large and small farm sectors fell into disuse. In order to reju-
venate the sector and to cut down beef imports, in 1972 Zaire commenced a
program to rehabilitate large ranches; in support of this program, IDA in
1973 provided a Credit (No. 398-CK) for US$8.5 million to establish a Na-
tional Ranching Authority (ONDE) whose initial responsibility included the
development of three ranches in the main ranching province, Shaba. In order
to complement this development, and as part of a broad effort to increase
smallholder incomes, Government now wishes to undertake the rehabilitation
of the traditional livestock areas through the provision of improved veteri-
nary and animal production services, and through the introduction of better
marketing and slaughter facilities. The proposed Project would support this
effort in Ituri sub-region, Zaire's largest traditional cattle area, where
nearly 300,000 cattle are kept by about 18,600 small livestock owners. In
addition to support for the traditional producers, the Project would also
help to develop three existing ranches to provide a means for fattening cattle
from smallholder areas while at the same time reducing the possibilities of
local overstocking. The production attributable to the Project would meet
future demand in the region and would also allow increased shipment of
beef to other parts of Zaire, mainly Kinshasa. The approach utilized in the
Project would, if successful, be a forerunner to other livestock and perhaps
general rural development programs in Zaire's traditional farming areas.
1.02      The First Livestock Project (398-CK) is the first and ouly on-
going agricultural project in Zaire, although a Cotton Rehabilitation Proj-
ect (1179-ZR) for US$8.0 million has recently been approved by the Board.
The first project has been slow getting underway and has experienced man-
agement difficulties resulting in cattle losses, slower than anticipated
improvements in livestock performance and slow investment due in part to
transport and supply problems. The most serious aspect has been the increase
in costs and failure of Government to adequately adjust producer prices (which
were already inadequate at the commencement of the project), resulting in
negative financial rates of return. Despite this, ranch cattle numbers have
risen 13% and the combined ranches posted an unexpected small profit in 1975
due to increased cattle valuation. In M4ay 1976, Government prices were tripled
over the 1973 level (para 6.05) which only compensated for inflationary trends
in production costs and represented a small relative price increase for the
for the bottom grades but not for the top grade. The March 1976 supervision
mission has estimated that total Project cost calculated in Zaires has doubled,
reflecting rapid inflation during the past two years, the expected effects of
devaluation on costs and higher inflation rates forecast for the remainder of
the Project. In foreign exchange terms Project costs have increased 35%. It



- 2 -
estimated that the May prices would be insufficient to compensate for the
expected increase in the cost of capital by the end of 1976. The mission
therefore recommended a further 30% increase in the producer prices for late
1976. Government increased prices prior to Board presentation of the project
and this price increase should provide an adequate return on capital and allow
income from sales of stock to meet increased Project costs.
1.03      The Ituri Project was identified by a Bank mission in 1974 and pre-
pared by the Department of Agriculture with the help of consultants and the
Regional Mission in Zaire (RMZ). This report is based on the findings of
an appraisal mission which visited Zaire in September/October 1975 composed
of Messrs. Peberdy, Marticou, Sanger, Steengaard, Ms. Lallement (IDA) and
Mir. Root (Consultant). Appraisal and subsequent discussions with Govern-
ment confirmed inadequate financial rates of return on investment at producer
prices ruling at that time. This report has been completed after updating
financial projections to take into consideration the official producer price
increase of May 1976 (para 1.02) as well as the impact of devaluation and
Government measures taken in March 1976.
Il   BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Zaire covers 2.3 million square kilometers and is
the third largest country in Africa. The population in 1974 was about 24
million, and is growing at a rate of 2.6% per annum; about 70% of the popu-
lation live in rural areas. Most of the country has a wet tropical climate,
but the plateau areas of the southeast and the mountainous areas along the
eastern border have cooler and more temperate regimes. A wide variety of
crops can be grown and the natural grasslands and forests offer a wide
range of development possibilities, including livestock. The rivers and
lakes are well stocked with fish and the rivers provide nearly 15,000 kilo-
meters of navigable waterways and considerable hydroelectric potential.
There are significant deposits of copper, zinc, manganese and cobalt.
2.02      Zaire became independent in 1960 and following political turbu-
lence the economy began to recover in 1967, spurred by rising copper prices.
Between 1968 and 1973 the GDP grew at an average annual rate of about 7%
in real terms, although despite this rapid growth per capita income in 1974
was estimated at only US$150. 1/ In 1974 exports of goods amounted to about
Z 740 million (US$1,480 million), of which minerals accounted for more than
70%. Imports totalled about Z 658.4 million (US$1,316.8 million). In re-
cent years all sectors of Zaire's economy have been affected by a sharp
fall in copper prices, causing a rapid decline in economic growth and serious
budgetary and balance of payments problems. In March 1976 the deteriorating
economic situation led Government to devalue its currency by more than 40%
and to implement a stabilization program. The Zairian currency has now
been pegged to the IMF Special Drawing Rights (SDR). At the same time, the
1/   At the pre-March 12, 1976 exchange rate of Z 1 = US$2.



Stabilization Program included measures to balance the budget and external
accounts by reducing Government spending and controlling foreign exchange
expenditures.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.03      The agricultural sector is of great importance to the economy
of Zaire. About 70% of the population is dependent on agriculture for its
livelihood, and about 3% of these are involved in livestock production.
Traditional subsistence farmers and pastoralists include some 3 million
farm families, whose production accounts for about 57% of total agricul-
tural output. In addition to these small farms, there are numerous commercial
plantations and a number of cattle ranches which contribute some 43% of total
production. In recent years total output from the agricultural sector has
grown by only 2.4% per annum, a rate which has failed to keep pace with
population growth (estimated at about 2.6% per annum). Consequently, Zaire is
increasingly dependent on food imports such as cereals, fish and meat, to meet
the growing demand (which is particularly strong in the urban areas). As a
result of this lack of progress in agriculture, per capita rural income in
1974 was estimated at only Z 15 (US$30), as compared to the national average
income of about Z 75 (US$150).
2.04      The slow rate of growth of the agricultural sector over the last
decade can be attributed to a number of factors, among which the most im-
portant have been the decline of plantation agriculture, the deterioration
of transport facilities, the lack of experienced farm and ranch managers and
of qualified agricultural labor, which became particularly acute following the
Zairianization measures of 1973; these factors have been compounded by the
weak institutional support and the Government's tendency to favor the indus-
trial and mining sector to the disadvantage of the agricultural sector.
C. Beef Cattle Sub-Sector (Annex 1)
2.05      Cattle are the most important livestock in Zaire; in 1973, there
were about 1 million head of cattle, 0.6 million pigs, 2.8 million sheep
and goats, and 9 million chicken and other fowl. About 600,000 cattle are
raised by pastoral herdsmen, small farmers and ranchers for meat and milk,
and 400,000 head are kept by commercial ranches. Cattle farming is prac-
tised especially in the regions of Shaba, Kasai Oriental, Kivu and in the
sub-region of Ituri.
2.06      In 1973, nearly 80% of the traditional herds (450,000 cattle) were
in the northeastern region of Haut-Zaire and Kivu, while 60% of the commer-
cial cattle were in the southeast, mainly in the Shaba region. In November
1973, the Government took over all privately-owned commercial ranches and
management was transferred to various public agencies and companies, in-
cluding ONDE (Office National pour le Developpement de l'Elevage). The
exploitation of smaller ranches was given to private individuals, while the
Government retained ownership rights. In 1973, large ranches accounted



- 4 -
for nearly 60% of domestic beef production (10,000 tons) while the remain-
ing 40% (7,000 tons) came from the traditional sector. The Government now
hopes to increase beef production both through the improvement of existing
ranches and by fostering smallholder cattle production. Rapid development
of livestock production is handicapped by a shortage of cattle and of govern-
ment recurrent funds, and in some areas by tsetse fly and poor animal health
conditions exacerbated by inadequate veterinary services.
2.07      Cattle and meat are marketed through both public and private chan-
nels. The most important single buyer of meat is the state company "Societe
Generale d'Alimentation" (SGA) which has an import monopoly. SGA is the
principal wholesaler in Kinshasa and in urban centers of Shaba province.
Private traders hiadle most of the cattle trade.  Private butchers dominate
the retail beef market.(Marketing - Annex 2)
D. Agricultural Services
2.08      The Department of Agriculture is responsible for formulating agri-
cultural policies, providing extension services and assisting parastatal
bodies under its control, e.g. Office National de Developpement de l' Elevage
(ONDE), and Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agronomique (INERA).
ONDE was established with IDA assistance in 1973 to promote livestock develop-
ment, and more particularly to rehabilitate and run specified public ranches
on a commercial basis. The capital of ONDE is made up of grants and loans
from Government and transferred assets from ranches under its control.  ONDE
does not pay corporate income tax but in accordance with its statutes reinvests
its profits in further livestock development. ONDE's task was originally to
develop three IDA financed ranches (Muhila, Mitwaba and Kayembe) in the Shaba
Region. Following the Government nationalization program in 1973, ONDE was
entrusted with five additional ranches, the Bunia abattoir, the Kamina butchery
and the veterinary laboratories in Lubumbashi and Kinshasa. ONDE employs over
2,800 staff, of whom 10 are graduates. The audited 1975 accounts for IDA-
financed ranches show an accumulative profit of Z 88,000, primarily due to
increased valuation of stock. The unaudited consolidated accounts for all
ONDE's operations for 1975 indicate a profit of Z 199,000; this represents an
inadequate return on capital and would not allow ONDE to finance any major
development programs.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General (Annex 3)
3.01      The Project area would comprise the Ituri sub-region of
Haut-Zaire in the northeast corner of Zaire bordering Sudan and Uganda.
The administrative headquarters of the sub-region is Bunia. Ituri is
divided into five administrative zones, which are in turn sub-divided into
sectors and collectivities. The Project would cover four oZ these zones
(Irumu, Djugu, Mahagi and Aru) or a total area of 29,000 km . The Pro-
ject area consists of a mixture of hills, plateau and mountainous country,



with altitudes varying from 1,000 to 1,700 neters; savannah occupies about
75%. of the area.  Rainfall varies from 1,000 to 1,600 mm with most of the
area receiving about 1,200 to 1,300 mm. There are two rainy seasons, mid-
March to mid-May and August to November. The population of the Ituri sub-
region was estimated at 1,089,000 in 1974, making it one of the most densely
populated areas in Zaire.
Traditional Smallholder Farming Sector
3.02      The traditional farming sector comprises about 170,000 families
cultivating an area of about 270,000 ha. The major crops are beans, maize,
cassava, sweet potatoes, groundnuts, Arabica coffee and cotton. About 30,000
farmers own livestock of some kind, and about 18,600 of these own cattle;
small stock, particularly pigs and poultry, are becoming increasingly im-
portant. There are now about 287,000 cattle, 300,000 goats, 74,000 sheep,
37,000 pigs and a large number of poultry in the region. Most livestock
owners also cultivate crops, but in Irumu there are some Bahema families who
subsist entirely on livestock production.
Cattle in the Traditional Sector
3.03      During the disturbances in the early 1960's, the Ituri cattle herd
declined from some 310,000 to 253,000 head in 1965.  Since that time the
herd has been growing at an annual rate of about 1.4%, giving a present
herd size of around 287,000. Generally, calving rates are low; this is
due mainly to poor grazing management, the age of the cows, mineral and
salt deficiencies, and to high parasite and disease incidence. These tradi-
tional herds also are characterized by high mortality. One notable feature
of the herds is that 47% of the cattle are females over 3 years of age, giv-
ing the herd a potential for rapid growth. The overall stocking density in
Ituri is about 1 livestock unit per 6.8 grazing hectares; although the density
could be higher in most areas, overgrazing has occurred in a few locations.
If improved, natural pastures in many areas could carry at least 1 stock unit
per hectare. Cattle offtake is about 10% to 11% (31,000 cattle), with over
half the male animals being consumed or sold at an unfinished age of 1 to 3
years old; these statistics indicate that small farmers are fully exploiting
young males in their herds in an effort to earn income.
3.04      Cattle diseases have an important effect on mortality rates and
on the general condition of the stock. Over half of all cattle deaths are
caused by East Coast Fever, and Anaplasmosis and Piroplasmosis are also of
serious concern. Anthrax is prevalent and inoculation programs are mounted
when outbreaks occur. Internal parasites are particularly serious among
young stock, as these make the stock more susceptible to other diseases,
and affect weight gains and the overall condition of the growing animals.
Abundance of rain and swampy conditions permit a high incidence of Liver
Fluke in certain areas. Trypanosomiasis is present near forested areas.
Cysticercosis is also common.
Commercial Ranches
3.05      Commercial ranches now occupy perhaps 5% of the land area in the
Ituri sub-region. These businesses are presently owned by private Zairian



individuals, missions and parastatal bodies. Government wishes to rehabil-
itate these operations (para 1.01) utilizing IDA and other international
assistance. Several of these ranches now operated by the Office des
Mines d'Or de Kilo-Moto are in particular need of assistance. These five
ranches cover some 33,900 ha and have a total of 3,800 head of cattle; the
ranches are: Kerekere (16,000 ha, 2,400 cattle); Dele (5,000 ha, 800 cat-
tle); Asada (5,000 ha, 260 cattle); Yegu (5,000 ha, 400 cattle); Ladde
(5,000 ha, no cattle). With the exception of Yegu, which supplies milk
as well as beef to the mines, all are understocked. The ranches are gen-
erally in state of disrepair, management is inexperienced, productivity is
low and income is not, or at best barely, covering operating costs. Gov-
ernment wishes to revitalize and integrate them into the development of
the traditional areas by using them for fattening unfinished stock from
these areas. Under this plan, some of the ranches would also build up breed-
ing herds, using dual purpose milk/beef bulls for eventually providing half
bred milk cattle to the traditional areas.
Slaughter Facilities
3.06      The main towns of Bunia and Kisangani possess well-built and mod-
ern abattoirs which although originally well-equipped have fallen into dis-
repair through a lack of maintenance. The Veterinary Department (para 3.07)
also operates a number of smaller slaughter houses in other urban and rural
areas. The Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs run at a loss because of inex-
perienced management, deteriorating plant, low fees and low throughput of
cattle, pigs, sheep and goats. Since the breakdown of its pig slaughtering
facilities the throughput of the Kisangani abattoir has considerably declined
and it now competes with a number of uncertified and very unhygienic slaughter
operations which have started near the town. Current slaughtering procedures
at Kisangani represent a threat to public health (Annex 6). ONDE has recently
been given responsibility for running the Bunia abattoir, while Kisangani
remains under the authority of the Veterinary Department (which is not a
suitable agency for running a commercial slaughter operation).
Veterinary and Animal Production Services
3.07      The Veterinary Department of the Animal Health and Production
Division in the Department of Agriculture (para 2.08) is responsible for
animal health, animal production and meat inspection. It runs a number of
livestock centers, controls stock movement and has the responsibility for
organizing and supervising markets. The Department in Ituri has a good basic
organizational structure of zone clinics, field dispensaries (39), dips (27)
and field housing (30) on which to build its work program; many of the
facilities and in need of repair. It employs about 240 staff. There are
disproportionate numbers of poorly qualified or unqualified personnel who
have an inadequate understanding of animal husbandry; this can be attributed
to the fact that this subject is not adequately covered in their training
courses.



IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would undertake a major rural development effort in
Ituri sub-region by developing an overall livestock improvement program for
small farmers. This program would be initially directed at cattle improve-
ment, but would also examine and promote the improvement of other classes
of stock. Over 5 years the Project would:
(a) rehabilitate the veterinary and animal produc-
tion services in TIturi through the provision
of cattle dipping facilities, animal health
dispensaries, veterinary medicines and dipping
materials, and through the introduction of
animal husbandry and grazing-management
programs;
(b) improve marketing services, a stock route,
and rural slaughter facilities;
(c) train Project staff and farmers;
(d) develop 3 existing ranches, primarily for
finishing cattle purchased from the tradi-
tional sector and also as a source of im-
proved breeding stock for future sale in
traditional areas;
(e) improve existing abattoirs at Bunia and
Kisangani; and
(f) provide technical assistance for Project
management, studies, and for the preparation
of future projects in the Project area.
The Department of Agriculture would coordinate all Project activities through
a Project Management Committee. Responsibility for management and execution
of the Project would be divided between an Ituri Project Unit (IPU) which
would be responsible for the veterinary, animal production, marketing and
rural slaughter services, and ONDE which would be responsible for the ranches
and abattoirs.
B. Detailed Features
Veterinary and Animal Production Services (Annex 3)
4.02      The Project would provide dipping, inoculation, veterinary treat-
ment, clinical and animal production advisory services for farmers through-



- 8 -
out the cattle areas of Ituri. Initial emphasis would be placed on improv-
ing animal health, although development of better animal production methods
should assume greater importance as the Project develops. The primary object-
ive would be to provide dipping cover for 80% of the cattle in Ituri by year
5. The Ituri Project Unit would determine how best this might be achieved.
The dips would be run by the veterinary service and, where organized, by
farmers' associations. Initially, the program would be introduced in areas
with existing dips or where the collectivities (the smallest administrative
unit) or associations of farmers have demonstrated their interest in the
program. As full advantages from dipping would only be obtained if all
animals in an area are dipped, compulsory dipping of all cattle within a
radius of 8 km of an operational dip or spray race would be introduced;
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiation. It would be proposed
that farmers pay for the dipping materials; however, although the farmers have
said they are prepared to meet these charges, it remains to be seen whether
they will all agree to meet the full costs of the materials. Because it would
take 3 years for the improved income from stock sales to cover annual dipping
expenditure, dipping materials in the first three years would be charged at a
subsidized price of 40% of their cost (Z 0.60 per head/annum) (see Annex 3
Table 4). Thereafter, unless otherwise agreed with IDA, the full charge would
be levied (Z 1.50 per head/annum). This proposal was agreed at negotiations.
Methods of fee collection could vary; farmers could pay it either as a dipping
charge to the Veterinary Department or a Farmers Association, or as a specific
collectivity tax levied using existing tax legislation. Although in the past
there have been recommendations to abolish collectivity taxes, some collecti-
vities presently charge a tax of 10 to 20 k per head of cattle for raising
revenue. The use of these revenues is uncertain. Therefore in order to make
it easier for farmers to pay for dipping it was agreed at negotiations that
any collectivity cattle per capita tax charged for raising general revenues in
areas where dipping facilities were operating would be removed. Profits from
market fees and fees at rural slaughterhouses could be earmarked for covering
part of the costs of the dipping program. The Veterinary Department would
provide drugs and inoculants for sale to farmers at cost plus a 15% service
charge. The Department would also run an annual compulsory free Anthrax
inoculation program for cattle. Emphasis in the first 18-24 months would be
on renovating existing facilities; thereafter, providing progress warranted
it, new ones would be built. Thus at Project completion there would be 72
dips (36 new), 12 new spray races, 84 field dispensaries (45 new), 5 new
stores, a workshop and 80 junior staff houses (50 new). Annex 3, Table 5
gives development targets. Clinical work would be undertaken at existing
clinics at zone headquarters and at Nioka Research Station.
4.03      The animal production extension effort would be directed at devel-
oping better grazing management through grazing associations, stock control
where necessary, improved cattle husbandry, introduction of legumes, and
introduction of improved breeding stock. Methods would be examined to
improve productivity of other stock such as sheep, goats, pigs, poultry.
Nioka would supply selected young bulls for sale to farmers at prices 10%
above producer prices for immatures.
4.04      In order to assist these programs, it may be appropriate in 2 or
3 years time for IPU to provide a pilot credit program for livestock owners.
An arbitrary provision of Z 100,000 has therefore been made in Project costs



- 9 -
for this purpose. It was agreed at negotiations that the establishment and
use of the farmers credit fund would depend on the formulation by IPU of
suitable arrangements satisfactory to IDA; the matter will be kept under
review during supervision.
4.05      The veterinary and animal production services in Ituri would be
recrganized and its qualified staff strengthened. Seven technical assistance
personnel provided by the French Ministry of Co-operation (FMC), working for a
period of 2 to 5 years would help with the program (para 4.11); one of the
Technical Assistance team would be manager of IPU for the first three years.
The principal investment items would be building materials, spray races, water
pumps, dip chemicals, drugs, inoculants, seed, vehicles and radio equipment
(Annex 3, Tables 12, 13 and 14).
Marketing Services and Rural Slaughter Facilities (Annex 2)
4.06      The veterinary and animal production services provided under the
Project would lead to increased cattle numbers as well as to increased off-
take from the existing herd. Provision would therefore be made for the
improvement of rural stock marketing facilities and the organization of
regular markets at some 21 centers throughout Ituri. After an initial sur-
vey by Project staff, work would commence in the second year to rehabilitate
40 existing small rural slaughterhouses; staff would be trained in proper
slaughtering and flaying techniques. Following further investigations to
ascertain that it is still needed, an old unused stock route between Kerekere
and Bunia would in the third year be renovated with Project funds (Z 37,000) and
reopened. ONDE's stock purchasing activities would be expanded both with
regard to slaughter cattle for the Bunia abattoir and immature and unfinished
cattle for fattening on ranches. Principal investments would include improve-
ments to buildings and provision of cattle yards, scales and equipment (Annex 2
Table 7).
Training (Annex 4)
4.07      Existing buildings at Ngabu on the Nioka research station would be
rehabilitated and turned into a small training center. The center would be
part of and come under the Ituri Project Unit. Initially emphasis would
be placed on training junior staff in animal production, animal health and
extension methods. The center would be established under the management of
an expatriate expert provided under technical assistance (para 4.11) from
the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). Staff at Nioka Research Station would
assist the center's resident teaching staff with lectures and demonstration
material. Provision would be included for building renovation as well as for
a house, equipment, vehicles and operating costs (Annex 4 Tables 1, 2 and 3).
4.08      IPU, following the advice of the extension specialist, would also
provide ancillary equipment for existing farmer training centers in the area
at Gopka and Totoba, and funds for running special courses at them. A mobile
visual aids unit would be provided and run by IPU and assistance would be
given to the National Broadcasting System to develop short agricultural pro-
grams to be broadcast from Kisangani.



- 10 -
Ranches (Annex 5)
4.09      There is a need to finish the large numbers of immatures or unfin-
ished animals presently slaughtered in the traditional areas and to improve
the quality of meat which is shipped to Kinshasa. In order to meet this
need and to reduce the risk of over-stocking in some areas, the Project
would provide for the development of three existing ranches (Kerekere,
Asada and Dele) in the Ituri sub-region. ONDE would operate an active
buying program for the ranches, purchasing immature animals from tradi-
tional producers for fattening over a one or 2 year period. These ranches
are now owned and operated by the Office des Mines d'Or de Kilo-Moto (para
3.07); under the Project they would, however, be transferred to ONDE, which
would be given responsibility for their operation. Although emphasis would
be placed on fattening smallholder cattle, 1,500 breeding heifers and 98
bulls would be purchased to build up nucleus breeding herds. Some of the
bulls purchased would be dual purpose beef/milk bulls for producing half-bred
milk cattle for the traditional areas in the future. Half the breeding stock
would be purchased from Ituri smallholders and Nioka Research Station and
the rest would be imported from Kenya or the Sudan. ONDE would develop de-
tailed ranch development plans for each ranch. A semi-intensive ranch man-
agement system would be introduced (about one animal unit to 1.5 ha) and
emphasis would be placed on improving herd performance and ranch efficiency.
The expected development of the three ranches is illustrated in the table
below.
No. of                           Annual No. of
Size          Cattle          Heifers to      Steers Purchased
Ranch        ('000 ha)  Present  Proposed  be Purchased  Yr. 1  Yr. 5  Yr. 12
Kerekere       16.6      2,425    11,070        1,000         350  1,150  2,500
Asada           5.0        260      3,280         -           350  1,450  2,500
Dele            5.0        817      4,320         500         300  1,500  2,000
Total          26.6      3,502    18,670        1,500      1,000  4,100  7,000
Investments under the Project would include the provision of buildings,
dips, yards, firebreaks, vehicles, weighing scales, water supplies, fencing,
stylosanthes, and funds for the purchase of heifers and steers (Annex 5 Tables
3, 7 and 11). Management would be strengthened by the employment of an
experienced internationally recruited Ranch Manager to oversee the three
ranches for five years (para 4.11).
Abattoirs (Annex 6)
4.10      The municipal abattoirs at Kisangani and Bunia would be re-equipped
and run on a commercial basis. The Bunia abattoir will provide the outlet for
surplus traditional area and ranch cattle produced by the Project. As indicated
earlier (para 3.06), current slaughtering procedures in Kisangani are a threat
to public health from contamination through disposal of untreated effluent and
sale of uninspected meat. Investment in the Kisangani abattoirs will overcome



- il -
these problems and will allow full advantage to be taken of the presence of
the experts needed to rehabilitate the Bunia abattoir. Because of the health
hazards it was agreed at negotiations that the small unhygienie slaughter
operations near Kisangani would be closed. At Kisangani investment would
include building renovation, repair of equipment and re-equipment where
necessary, and overhaul of the refrigeration plant. The pig section would be
brought back into use. A hide shed, stores and workshop would also be con-
structed. Responsibility for the abattoir would be shifted from the Veteri-
nary Department to ONDE, which is better qualified to run this type of commer-
cial operation. The Bunia abattoir building would be renovated throughout and
its overall layout improved; an extension would also be constructed to enable
slaughter of pigs, and to provide hide drying and storage facilities, staff
offices and a covered slaughter pen. Necessary items of new equipment (in-
cluding pig handling equipment) and a maintenance workshop and insulated
vehicles for a meat delivery service would also be provided. The Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) will provide two experts to supervise
the re-equipping, to revise operational procedures, and to introduce a new
accounting system and a program of staff training at both abattoirs. Slaughter
charges would be increased (para 4.19), and efforts would be made to increase
annual throughput; ONDE's cattle buying operation to supply Bunia would be
increased (Investments Annex 6 Tables 1 and 8).
Technical Assistance
4.11      Because of lack of experienced and qualified personnel in Zaire,
the Project would provide 12 technical assistants for 40 man years. Inter-
nationally recruited specialists would train Zairian counterparts and would be
phased out from years 2 to 5 of the investment period. A team of 7 men (24
man years) would be provided to assist the veterinary service by the French
Ministry of Cooperation (FMC); it would consist of a team leader, 1 veteri-
narian, 1 animal husbandry expert, 1 extension and training specialist, 1
financial controller, 1 mechanical engineer, and 1 building specialist.
Agreement to this will be the subject of a letter of understanding between the
Government of Zaire and FMC. An expert would be provided for three years
under German technical assistance (FRG) to develop and run courses at the new
Ngabu center at Nioka. One or two years before their departure the FMC and
FRG technical assistance staff would be assigned local counterparts who would
take over from them at the end of their assignment, assurances on this were
obtained at negotiations. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
will provide 2 abattoir specialists for two years. ONDE would engage directly
or through a consultancy firm a ranch general manager to develop the Project
ranches. Because of recent expansion of ONDE's activities as a result of the
nationalization of the ranching sector (Annex 7), the Project would also
provide ONDE with funds for a Financial Manager in Kinshasa for 4 or 5 years
to help manage its financial operations and organize and develop its account-
ing and control systems; this would be a continuation of an appointment made
under the first project in February 1977.Technical assistance costs are
included separately under their respective components in the Project cost
table.



- 12 -
Studies and Support Staff (Annex 9)
4.12      Consultant services would be required for Project studies in
Ituri; the studies would be concerned with such matters as pasture im-
provement, systems for improving stock production including smallstock,
trypanosomiasis, amalgamation of Loda and Pimbo training centers (Annex 4),
and a final evaluation of the Project.  In year 3 specialists would be employed
to consider and prepare a second phase of the Project; depending on experience
by that time, that phase might incorporate other agricultural sub-sectors.
Use of these funds would be mutually agreed between the Government and IDA.
The Project would also include provision for a Financial Manager for ONDE
(para 4.11). It wc,ld be a condition of disbursement for Project studies that
Government and IDA had reached agreement on the use of the funds.
ONDE's Operating Expenses for Ranches and Abattoirs
4.13      The Project would include the incremental operating expenses for
the first three years of the Project for the ranch component, and for the
first two years of the Project for the abattoir component, as during this
Project period revenues earned would be insufficient to cover all operating
expenses.
C. Project Costs
4.14      Total Project costs are estimated at about Z 14.0 million (US$16.1
million), of which approximately Z 7.9 million (US$9.1 million) or 56% rep-
resents foreign exchange requirements. Total Project costs are detailed
below:



_13_
Foreign
-------Z'                       US$000------- Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total        %
Veterinary and Animal Production
Capital Investments                       952    819    1,771  1,094    941    2,035    46
Incremental Operating Costs              847  1,401    2,248    974  1,610    2,584    62
Technical Assistance                       -   1,044    1,044      -   1,200    1,200   100
Sub-Total                         1,799  3,264    5,063  2,068  3,751    5,819    64
Markets, Rural Slaughterhouses
and Stock Route
Capital Investments                        81     88       169     93    101        194    52
Incremental Operating Expenses           220      -        220    253      -       253    -
Sub-Total                           301      88      389    346    101        447    23
Training
Ngabu Training Center Capital
NgabuInvestments                           71     85       156      82     98       180    55
Ngabu Training Center Operational CostslOl        75       176    116      86       202    43
Ngabu Training Center Technical
Assistance                           -      156      156      -     179       179   100
Other Training Investments                 24     70        94     27      81      108    75
Sub-Total                           196    386       582    225    444        669    66
Ranches
Capital Investments                      578    464    1,042    664    534    1,198    45
Breeding Stock                           117    140        257    135    161       296    54
Incremental Operating Expenses           287    123       410    330    141        471    30
Technical Assistance                       -     261       261     -      300      300   100
Sub-Total                           982    988    1,970  1,129  1,136    2,265    50
Abattoirs
Bunia Capital Investments                 126    194       320    145    223       368    61
Kisangani Capital Investments              62     72       134     71      83      154    54
Technical Assistance                      -      122       122     -      140      140   100
Incremental Operating Expenses            49      -         49     56      -        56    -
Sub-Total                           237    388       625    272    446        718    62
Studies and Support Staff
Studies                                   42    289        331     48    332       380    87
Technical Assistance to ONDE Hq.           -     305       305     -      350      350   100
Sub-Total                            42    594       636      48    682       730    93
TOTAL                             3,557  5,708    9,265  4,088  6,560   10,648    62
Contingency Allowances
Physical                                  355    571       926    408    656    1,064    62
Price                                  2,230  1,617    3,847  2,563  1,859    4,422    42%
Sub-Total Contingencies           2,585  2,188    4,773  2,971  2,515    5,486    46%
TATAT PRn-TF.CT CO.RTR                  6.142  7,896   14,038  7,059  9,075   16,134    56%



- 14 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevalent at the time of appraisal plus
estimated price escalations to January 1977. A physical contingency of 10%
has been applied to all Project items. Price contingencies have been cal-
culated at rates taking into consideration the effect of the very high rate
of inflation in Zaire; for local costs the contingency provision is 30% for
1977, 15% for 1978 and 10% for 1979, 1980 and 1981. For foreign costs,
price contingency provisions are: civil works, 12% for 1977-79 and 10%
for 1980-81; equipment, technical assistance and other costs, 8% for 1977-
79 and 7% for 1980-81. Taxes and duties have been included in Project costs;
direct imports for the Project would be exempted from duty. Applicable taxes
for Project investments are estimated at Z 505,000 (US$580,000). Exemption
from duties were confirmed at negotiations.
D. Financing
4.15      Financing of Project costs would be as follows:
Foreign Exchange             Local Currency          Total        Percentage
-_--------------- (US$ million) ---------------------
IDA          4.5                    3.5               8.0             50
CIDA          2.7                   0.6               3.3             20
FMC           1.5                    -                1.5              10
FRG          0.4                    0.1               0.5              3
Government    -                     2.8               2.8             17
Total         9.1                   7.0              16.1            100
4.16      The IDA, CIDA, FMC and FRG contributions would together finance
83% of total project costs and cover all the foreign exchange requirements
(US$9.1 million) and 60% of local costs (US$4.2 million). The high level
of local cost financing is presently justified by the Government's difficult
budgetary situation due mainly to recent high world inflation and depressed
world market prices of the country's main revenue earner, copper. The pro-
posed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would be on standard terms to Government
and meet all foreign exchange requirements not covered by CIDA, FMC and FRG
and 50% of the Project's local costs. CIDA would provide not less than US$3.3
million to finance all foreign exchange costs and 60% of local costs of the
abattoir component (US$0.8 million), the majority of operating veterinary
supplies for IPU and ranches (US$2.1 million) and most study funds (US$0.4
million); with the exception of the capital expenditures on the abattoirs
which will be on a long term loan on terms similar to IDA's the remainder of
the Canadian contribution will be on a grant basis. FMC would provide an
estimated US$1.5 million as a grant in the form of technical assistance for
IPU. FRG would provide approximately US$0.5 million as a grant to Government
to cover the cost of developing the Ngabu Training Center for staff training
and the cost of an education specialist for three years. Government would
contribute US$2.8 million, which would be partially offset to the extent
that project costs include about US$580,000 of taxes and duties. Government
would, in addition, also maintain over the project period the cost of exist-
ing veterinary and animal production services in the project area estimated
to cost US$2.0 million.



- 15 -
Ituri Project Unit (Annex 8)
4.17      Funds for the veterinary and animal production services, markets and
rural slaughterhouses, the stockroute, training and studies would be made
available to IPU. It was agreed at negotiations that an Ituri Project Account
would be established under the control of the Project Manager and his Finan-
cial Director in the IPU, and that every six months Government would credit
the IPU with their budgetary allocation for the next six month period.
A special revolving fund would be established to handle dips and medicines
(para 5.03). IPU would prepare annual estimates of its expenditures in July
which it would submit to the Project Coordinating Committee (para 5.01) and
the Department of Finance for approval; these estimates would also be for-
warded to IDA for information.
ONIDE
4.18      Ranches.  ONDE would receive US$2.3 million for the development of
the Project ranches. Of this, some US$1.8 million representing the invest-
ment and technical assistance costs would be transferred as a contribution to
equity in order to strengthen the ranches and ONDE's financial position;
the balance of US$0.5 million representing working capital requirements
would be loaned by Government to ONDE at an interest rate of 11-1/2% per
annum, the level which SOFIDE (Societe Financiere pour le Developpement
Economique) 1/ is presently charging. The loan would be repayable over 20
years and, as income for the first seven years would be inadequate to cover
loan charges because of the need to build up cattle numbers, a seven year
grace period on loan repayments would be given during which time interest
would be capitalized. It would be a condition of disbursement for the ranching
component that the ranches would be transferred to ONDE with all existing
assets and free of liabilities. At negotiations it was agreed
that: (i) for the Project implementation period the Project ranches would be
accounted for and funded separately as a unit within ONDE and income from the
ranches would be credited to the account and used for meeting operating
expenses and purchasing cattle; (ii) separate accounts would be maintained for
each ranch and each would be developed and operated as a viable commercial
enterprise; (iii) four months before each fiscal year ONDE would submit its
work plans and draft budgets for the following year to IDA for its approval;
this arrangement has worked satisfactorily under the first project; (iv)
Government would make equity and loan contributions to ONDE in advance at six
month intervals to meet the requirements of the ranches
4.19      Abattoirs and other Activities.  In order to strengthen their
financial position ONDE would receive US$662,000 as equity to rehabilitate the
Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs. The Kisangani abattoir would be transferred
free of any liabilities to ONDE. The enterprises would be run on commercial
lines. Fees would be regularly reviewed by Government and ONDE. If for some
reason ONDE is not permitted to set fees or prices at a level sufficient to
operate the abattoirs profitably then Government would provide a subsidy.
ONDE would require short-term working capital to purchase animals and hides
1/   SOFIDE is the main parastatal credit institution in Zaire.



- 16 -
for processing; loan funds for this would be made available either from
Government sources, a commercial bank loan or overdraft facilities and/or
partial payment on order by SGA or other meat purchaser in the case of Bunia
abattoir. During the period of construction four months before each fiscal
year ONDE would submit to IDA abattoir work plans and budgets for the follow-
ing year. ONDE would be provided by Government with up to US$70,000 per annum
over 5 years as a grant to employ a Financial Manager for overseeing ONDE's
total operations (para 4.11); the terms of reference and appointment of this
Financial Manager would be determined in consultation with IDA. Assurances
with regard to the above were obtained at negotiations.
4.20      It would be a condition of disbursement for funding the ranching
and abattoir components, that a subsidiary financing agreement acceptable to
IDA be drawn up between Government and ONDE reflecting the above financial
arrangements. It was agreed at negotiations that no changes would be made to
this agreement without consultation with IDA.
E. Procurement
4.21      Procurement of vehicles (US$500,000)  and veterinary materials and
supplies (US$200,000) in orders exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be
subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines;
orders would be bulked whenever possible. The IPU and ONDE would review their
annual requirements with the objective of issuing joint tender documents
whenever possible. In the case of imported cattle purchases (US$160,000),
quotations would be sought for the delivery of suitable stock from neighboring
countries, through agents and/or farmers through press advertising in these
countries. Technical assistance staff provided by IDA (for the ranches,
studies, and the Financial Controller) estimated at a total cost of US$0.7
million would be internationally recruited in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. All building construction and improvements (US$1.9 million)
would, due to their dispersed locations and diverse construction requirements,
be carried out by local tender or by force account where no satisfactory
contractors operate or where contractors costs are far in excess of estimates.
Local purchasing would be done by competitive bidding and normal commercial
channels as applicable using local procedures which are satisfactory. Local
breeding and fattening cattle would be purchased by ONDE in Ituri markets.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement procedures
would be followed.
F. Disbursement (Annex 12)
4.22      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over five years on
the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of local ex-
penditures on: (i) capital investment costs of
the veterinary and animal production services,
markets, rural slaughterhouses and stockroute;



- 17 -
(ii) specified operating expenditures (excluding
personnel) of the Project Unit services and Ngabu
Training Center; (iii) capital investment costs
of ONDE's Kerekere Asada and Dele ranches; and
(iv) costs of veterinary medicines, vaccines and
minerals for ranches;
(b) 75% of local expenditures made under the farmers
credit fund;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for: (i) management
and technical assistance services to ONDE; and
(ii) studies and Project evaluation;
IDA disbursements under (a)(i), a(iii), a(iv) and c would be fully documented;
disbursements under (a)(ii) and b would be made against certificates of
expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA for
review, but would be retained and made available for inspection by IDA during
Project supervision. Documents of expenditure by IPU would be signed by the
IPU Manager and Financial Controller. Expenditure by ONDE would be approved
by the Director General and the Ituri Ranch Director,
G. Accounts and Audit
4.23      The Ituri Project Unit would maintain its own Project accounts,
and quarterly returns would be made to the Department of Agriculture. IPU
through the Department of Agriculture would submit to IDA annual audited
accounts within six months of the close of the financial year. Such
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4.24      ONDE maintains separate accounts for the first project ranches
and for enterprises transferred to it under the nationalization program.
Audited accounts for the former are sent to IDA six months after the financial
year. Under the Project ONDE would maintain separate accounts for each ranch
and abattoir; a statement of physical assets of each entity and accounting
systems would be established at the outset of the Project. As in the case of
the first project, ONDE's audited accounts, audited by auditors acceptable to
IDA, would be forwarded to IDA not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year. Confirmation of the continuation of these auditing arrangements
were obtained at negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Overall Direction and Coordination
5.01      The Director General of the Department of Agriculture would have
responsibility for overall policy and coordination of the Project. The



- 18 -
Director General would be advised by a Project policy and coordinating commit-
tee which would meet twice a year under the chairmanship of the Director
General; the committee would consist of the Director of Veterinary Services,
the Manager and Deputy of the Ituri Project Unit, the Director General of
ONDE and representatives of the Departments of Finance, National Economy,
Interior and INERA and other representatives considered necessary. Executive
responsibility for execution of the Project in the traditional farming sector
would rest with a special Ituri Project Unit, while responsibility for ranch
and abattoir development would rest with ONDE. In Ituri there would be a
consultative sub-regional Project committee. It would not have directional
or executive functions but would review and comment on the program of IPU and
ONDE activities, and keep interested departments informed; minutes would be
sent to the Policy and Coordinating Committee. It would meet twice each year
under the chairmanship of the Sub-Regional Commissioner. Members could in-
clude: IPU Manager, Zone Commissioners, Sub-Regional Heads of the Departments
of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Education, the Director of the Nioka Research
Station, Director of Kilomines, Ranch Director of ONDE's ranches and the
Bunia abattoir. A Project organization chart is given in Annex 8, Appendix 1.
Ituri Project Unit (Annex 8)
5.02      The Ituri Project Unit (IPU) would be a separate entity in the
Department of Veterinary Services. It would be headed by the IPU Manager,
who would report to the Director of Veterinary Services in Kinshasa (although
in his capacity as member of the Project Coordinating Committee he would have
direct access to the Director General). In view of the need to maintain
staff and expenditures at the proper level after Project completion, assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that the present and proposed staffing
and level of expenditure on veterinary and animal husbandry services, both
during and after the Project, would be maintained at the level of expendi-
tures and staffing as shown in Annex 3, Tables 13 and 14. A condition of
disbursement of the veterinary and animal production services would be
that the Manager, Veterinarian, and Financial Controller for the IPU, had been
recruited.
5.03      IPU would develop the veterinary and animal production services,
the markets and rural slaughterhouses, the stockroute and a training program.
As part of the veterinary dipping and medicine program (para 4.02), IPU
would establish and maintain a revolving fund for purchasing dipping mate-
rials, drugs and inoculants for sale to farmers; Government would provide the
funds (and foreign exchange) necessary to meet farmers' requirements and to
make up any shortfalls in revenue due to any losses or need to subsidize
dipping materials. IPU would sell drugs at prices designed to cover any
handling losses (initially it is suggested that the cost price of the mate-
rials plus 15% might be charged). It was agreed at negotiations that Govern-
ment would maintain the revolving fund on the above basis and that it or
some other suitable and agreed mechanism would be maintained for ensuring
the supply of dips and medicines at a level necessary to maintain the improve-
ment achieved in animal health and production under the Project.



- 19 -
5.04      The IPU headquarters staff would be based in Bunia.  The unit
would also have one administrative staff officer stationed in the Department
of Agriculture in Kinshasa dealing with supplies and other matters. An
internationally recruited veterinarian or animal husbandry officer would be
employed under Project technical assistance (para 4.11) for the first three
years to establish and manage the IPU. He would be supported by a Zairian
deputy who at the end of three years would become Mlanager of the IPU; at this
stage he would in turn be supported by a member of the technical assistance
team who would become his adviser. An internationally recruited Financial
Controller would also be employed to develop the necessary organization to
deal with the increasing sale of dips and drugs. These technical assistance
staff would be supplied by FMC which would consult with the Zaire Government
and IDA on appointments. Appointments of IPU Manager and Deputy would be made
in consultation with IDA and assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. Terms of reference and qualifications of these two staff are
given in Annex 8, Appendix 2.
Ranches
5.05      Each ranch would be individually managed, but overall direction
of the ranch development program would be the responsibility of the Ituri
Ranch MIanager (who would be in charge of Kerekere and based there). He
in turn would work directly with the Director General of ONDE. In view
of the shortage of qualified and experienced Zairian personnel the Ranch
Manager would be internationally recruited by ONDE directly, or from a con-
sulting firm.  His position would eventually be filled by an ONDE ranch
manager who has became experienced on Ituri or other ONDE ranches. The Ranch
Manager would attend IPU committee meetings and liaise closely with IPU staff
and abattoir staff on policies being implemented to increase offtake of
immature and unfinished mature cattle from the traditional areas. IDA would
be consulted on this appointment and his recruitment would be a condition of
disbursement of this component.
Abattoirs
5.06      CIDA would provide a managerial/technical expert for two years to
organize work programs and the administration and operation of the abattoirs
on an efficient basis. He would be given authority by the Director General to
organize the plants and implement the project and would work directly under
the Director General of ONDE. The managers of the abattoirs would retain
management responsibility for their plant and marketing operations, although
work programs would be established by the technical advisor. A suitably
qualified internationally recruited engineer, provided by CIDA for two years,
would supervise the general overhaul of all existing plant and equipment and
the installation of new equipment. The present manager of the Bunia abattoir
would receive 6 months training in abattoir management, plant operation and
factory hygiene in a neighboring country. A suitably qualified person would
be selected to undergo similar training prior to assuming the position of
manager at Kisangani.
Ngabu Training Center
5.07      The training center would be part of the Ituri Project Unit.
FRG would supply a technical assistance expert (Principal) for three years to



- 20 -
develop the center and courses. The extension specialist in IPU would
work closely with the Principal on course content and general educational
policy. The appointment of the Principal would be subject to consultation
between the Governments of Germany and Zaire.
Project Iniplementation
5.08      IPU and ONDE would provide regular six monthly reports to IDA
of Project implementation, finances and effects of the Project on benefi-
ciaries. An evaluation report would be prepared at Project completion.
Annex 10 indicates the principal information that would be submitted to IDA.
An implementation schedule is included in Annex 11.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      At full development in year 13, improved veterinary, animal hus-
bandry and marketing services would increase productivity of the tradi-
tional cattle herd by reducing mortality, increasing liveweight at sale,
improving growth rates, increasing herd numbers (from 287,000 to 418,000
head), increasing offtake (from 31,400 to 64,500 head) and raising milk
yields. The proposed fattening ranches would improve quality and finish
7,000 animals annually from the traditional herd, as well as producing
1,280 animals from their own breeding herds. At full development total
incremental production is estimated at 33,500 head of cattle or the equiv-
alent of some 4,000 tons of carcass meat (Annex 2, Table 1). This would
represent about 22% of Zaire's 1975 domestic beef output. About 80%
(3,200 tons) of the increased production would be attributed to the small-
holder development scheme, while the remainder (800 tons) would come from
the ranch rehabilitation program.
B. Marketing (Annex 2)
6.02      At full development about 4,300 tons of beef or 55% of the total
beef production of Ituri will be consumed in Haut-Zaire while the remainder,
about 3,000 tons, will be available for shipment outside the Region. Demand
in Haut-Zaire is expected to grow approximately at the same rate as population
growth (2.6%) except in urban areas where there is no prospect for a commen-
surate increase in real income. However, it is not known how the May 1976
cattle price increase and the decrease in real income resulting from the
expected general price increase will affect demand for beef.  If demand for
beef in Haut-Zaire proves to be less than projected, more beef will be avail-
able for shipment outside the Region, mainly to Kinshasa and other large urban
centers.
6.03      At full development, the Project's incremental beef production
of 4,000 tons would account for about 12% of total beef production in Zaire.



- 21 -
However, as beef demand projections for Zaire suggest that by 1985 from 44,000
to 55,000 tons of beef will be required and as the available supply will amount
to only 30,000 tons, 14,000 to 24,000 tons would still have to be imported
(Annex 1). The Project's incremental milk production would be consumed by
Ituri producers' families; any surplus would find a ready local market.
The Project's incremental hide and skin production is expected to be bought
by the Bata Company for processing in Kinshasa.
6.04      The Project's improvement in the marketing system would allow
an increase in cattle marketed through official market places. ONDE would
purchase immatures and slaughter cattle for the ranches and the Bunia abattoir
in competition with other farmers and traders. Government has been consider-
ing reducing the number of traders; this however, would reduce competition and
could increase prices. Government however gave assurances at negotiations
that cattle marketing would not be restricted by Government limitations on the
number of traders and that ONDE would purchase cattle in competition with
traders. Also because of the importance of the need to regularly channel meat
through the Bunia abattoir for sale outside the Region, Governnment agreed that
ONDE would establish at the beginning of the project, agreements satisfactory
to the Association with one or more marketing companies under which they would
purchase meat from the abattoir at Bunia and transport it to Kinshasa or other
urban centers.
C. Prices
6.05      An interdepartmental commission of Government is responsible for
setting maximum producer and consumer beef prices. The Department of National
Economy is responsible for implementing price controls. However, these price
controls are only partially effective throughout the country, as cattle trade
and beef retail is mostly in private hands (see para 2.07). Official producer
prices remained unchanged between February 1973 and May 1976 while actual
producer prices rose from 10 to 40% above official levels and retail prices
more than 100%. To encourage investment in beef production, Government
allowed an increase in official producer prices in May 1976. These new prices
would not be sufficient, however, to provide adequate returns for new ranch
investments by 1977, as is illustrated by the financial rate of return of 9%
for the combined Project ranches. Therefore it was agreed at negotiations
that before Board presentation Government would increase the two top grades of
meat by 30%, i.e. lst quality from Z 0.70 per kg liveweight to Z 0.91 per kg
and 2nd quality Z 0.62 per kg liveweight to ZO.80 per kg liveweight. The 3rd
quality of meat would remain the same at ZO.54 per kg liveweight.
6.06      These new producer prices should be regarded as starting prices
because of the need to ensure an adequate financial rate of return on new
investments in the smallholder and ranching sectors. Further price policy
should aim at establishing minimum producer and consumer prices (not maximum
prices) above which prices would fluctuate according to market forces of
demand and supply. Because of the expected high rate of inflation and lagged
reaction in beef production to price adjustments, Government agreed at negoti-
ations that these minimum producer prices would be reviewed regularly at least
annually, in consultation with IDA, and that in order to assist in future
price revisions Government would establish and maintain an appropriate



- 22 -
index satisfactory to IDA which would reflect production cost fluctuations;
consideration would be given to linking the index with an average c.i.f.
import price. Allowance would also be made to accommodate special measures
in case of exceptional fluctuations in world market prices.
6.07      The new prices still leave Ituri beef delivered at Kinshasa competi-
tive with imported beef or with beef produced in other regions, although
the differences in quality between beef imports and local production makes the
comparison difficult. Presently, Ituri beef is of lower quality than most
imported or locally produced beef; however, the quality will improve consi-
derably with the development of fattening and breeding ranches. The com-
petitiveness of the Ituri beef will, therefore, mostly depend on the valuation
of the Zaire and on the quality improvement that will result from the Project.
D. Financial Results
Smallholders, Ranches and Abattoirs
6.08      Over twelve years the Project would raise average annual family
incomes of cattle owners from Z 300 (US$345) to Z 423 (US$490), of which
incomes from cattle and milk sales and consumption would increase from Z 213
(US$245) to Z 336 (US$386); cash incomes would increase from Z 128 (US$147) to
Z 260 (US$299) after payment of drug and dipping charges. The Project will,
therefore, provide an adequate incentive to producers, especially since
livestock will be the main cash earning possibility for small farmers in Ituri
in the medium term. The financial return of investments in the smallholder
component is estimated at 22%. The incremental financial rate of return on
Project investments is relatively favorable. However, if sunk costs such as
existing dips and buildings which will be used more effectively were included,
the financial rate of return to smallholders would fall 8 percentage points to
14%, indicating that the proposed prices are just sufficient to yield a
minimum acceptable rate of return for the type of development proposed for the
smallholder sector.
6.09      The financial rate of return for breeding/fattening ranches would
be 19%. Investments in the abattoirs would yield a financial return of 22%
for Bunia and 12% for Kisangani.
Government Benefits (Annex 14)
6.10      Data on government spending in the Ituri Livestock Sector are
incomplete as are estimates of Government fiscal revenues collected. The
taxation system is being standardized throughout the country and is based
on a capita tax. Farmers would pay the full cost for drugs and vaccinations
and after a three year subsidy period the full cost of dipping materials
(para 4.02). Fees would be charged at levels sufficient to cover operating
costs of markets, rural slaugherhouses and stock routes and ,Would be credited
to the veterinary services; assurances were obtained on these points at
negotiations. In spite of these contributions and fees, with the exception
of three years, the project would result in a Government annual deficit



- 23 -
during the Project life (Annex 14). However, while expenditure on services
appears to exceed direct revenues to central government the parastatal organi-
zation ONDE will make profits in future which will exceed the Government's
level of deficit and these surpluses will be reinvested in the livestock
sector.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would represent Government's first major effort to im-
prove smallholder livestock production in Zaire. It would provide basic
veterinary infrastructure facilities and extension services in an area where
support services for livestock production have been neglected in the past.
In addition, by rehabilitating existing ranches, stockroutes and abattoirs,
it would modernize the Ituri livestock sector, resulting in higher cash
incomes for pastoralists, and a more regular supply of meat to consumers.
Finally, the introduction of better husbandry practices, pasture improvement
and grazing management would gradually improve the traditional system of
extensive livestock production, thereby enhancing the prospects for further
livestock development in the Ituri region.
7.02      The main quantifiable benefits arising from the Project would be
a substantial increase in beef and milk production, estimated at Z 8.0 mil-
lion (US$9.2 million) at full development. This includes the increased
value of cattle products handled by the Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs. At
full development the incremental production would result in net annual savings
of foreign exchange estimated at Z 4.0 million (US$4.6 million) at present
world market prices. These savings would represent about 15% of the country's
present foreign exchange outlays for imported beef. The Project would also
have a number of additional benefits at full development which are more
difficult to quantify. This would include: (a) better nutrition for approxi-
mately 26,000 families through increased milk production and increased consump-
tion of meat products in the Bunia area; (b) more hygienic slaughtering of
animals; (c) the development of local expertise in livestock production and
better extension services through in-service training; (d) demonstration of
improved pasture and land management techniques to a wide cross-section of
cattle producers; and (e) the possibility of testing extension methods for
smallholder development schemes that, if proven successful, could be used in
developing other rural development programs.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis (Annex 15)
7.03      The overall economic rate of return for the Project over 20 years
would be 29%. Individual rates of return were calculated for the traditional
sector, the ranches and abattoirs; these were 26%, 23% and 37% respectively.
In this analysis foreign exchange costs and benefits were shadow priced at Z
1.10 per US$1.00 (as compared with the present rate of Z 0.87 per US$1.00) to
more adequately reflect the value of foreign exchange to Zaire. All labor
costs for veterinary services, ranch and abattoir operations were valued at
expected January 1977 wage rates, which are assumed to reflect economic costs
of this type of skilled and semi-skilled labor. Additional farm labor costs
are small and were not included. The cost of technical assistance, except for



- 24 -
technical assistance at ONDE headquarters and for future project preparation,
was included in investment costs.
7.04      The Project would not be particularly sensitive to changes in
costs and benefits. A 10% increase in costs would reduce the Project's
overall economic rate of return by 3 percentage points to 26%, while a 10%
decrease in benefits would reduce it by 4 percentage points to 25%. The
Project economic rate of return is therefore relatively favorable. However, if
sunk costs (such as existing dips, and abattoir facilities) were included, it
would fall by 15 percentage points to 14%.
Risk
7.05      Although the Project is relatively simple in conception it has a
high degree of risk, particularly in the smallholder and abattoir components.
Data on which projections for all components have been made is weak, and com-
munications and supply problems could be substantial. The greatest risk would
appear to be attached to the implementation of the veterinary and animal pro-
duction services for the traditional sector.  Although farmers and Government
staff have considerable enthusiasm for the Project, there is no recent record
of development in the area on which to base likely farmer response. When
faced with having to pay increasing costs for dips, medicines, fees, etc.
the response from farmers could in practice be much less than is hoped for.
This risk can be mitigated somewhat, however, by concentrating for the first
18 to 24 months on the most responsive collectivities that already have some
facilities; this should give some indication of likely response before any
large expenditures have been made in capital improvements. If the annual
dipping cost to the farmer is a major deterrent then Government must decide
whether it is prepared to subsidise the dipping program entirely; such a
decision may be necessary after the first twelve months. The technical skills
and the overall efficiency of field staff will have to be raised considerably.
The introduction of experienced management and in-service staff training is
essential if the Project is to have any chance of success. It was therefore
agreed at negotiations that Government, CIDA, FMC, FRG and IDA would review
the progress of the program at the end of two years full operation (i.e. after
the Technical Assistance team have been on the ground for two years) with a
view to determining whether the development of new facilities and continuation
of the program as planned is fully warranted and whether charges should be
made. There is a degree of risk that services could decline or lapse following
the investment period.  The main risk involved in the implementation of the
abattoir component would be the failure to adjust fees regularly, and the
chance that throughput could be lower than projected. Although the ranches
are somewhat less likely to encounter serious difficulties, some risk would be
involved if Government failed to adjust producer prices regularly and if
difficulties were encountered in purchasing fattening stock at the right
prices (the latter would be offset to some extent by the development of the
nucleus breeding herds on two of the ranches). There will be need to develop
quickly a sound data collection system to monitor progress and to allow
adjustments to plans as necessary.



- 25 -
Employment and Income Distribution
7.06      The Project will not substantially raise wage employment in the
Project area. Expected additional permanent jobs will amount to about 400,
most of which will be created in the veterinary services, ranches and abat-
toirs. About 18,600 pastoral families will participate in the Project. Their
present average income is about Z 300 1/ (US$345) or a per capita income of
about Z 55 (US$ 63), which is somewhat higher than the estimated absolute
poverty level in Zaire of Z 20 (US$23). At full development about 26,000
families will have benefited from the Project and the average total income
will be about Z 423 - 500 1/ (US$490), thus, appreciably improving the incomes
and standard of living of one of the poorest sections of Zaire's population.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During the credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the follow-
ing principal points. Other points agreed at negotiations are included in
Schedule A.
(a)  A special Ituri Project account would be established and every six
months Government would credit this account with IPU's budgetary
allocation for the next six-month period (para 4.17);
(b)  For the Project implementation period the Ituri Project ranches
would be accounted for and funded separately as an Ituri Project
unit within ONDE. Income from ranches would be credited to the
account and used for meeting operating expenses and purchasing
cattle (para 4.18);
(c)  Government would make equity and loan allocations to ONDE to meet
the requirements of the ranches. These would be paid to ONDE at six
monthly intervals in advance of requirements (para 4.18);
(d)  IDA procurement procedures would be followed (para 4.21);
(e)  Government would maintain present and proposed staffing
and levels of expenditure for veterinary and animal
husbandry services both during and after the Project
(para 5.02);
(f)  Appointment of the IPU Manager and Deputy would be made in
consultation with IDA (para 5.04);
(g)  Stock marketing in Ituri would not be restricted by Governnent
limitations on the numbers of traders and ONDE would purchase
cattle in competition with traders (para 6.04);
1/   Includes estimates of crop production for self-consumption.



- 26 -
(h) ONDE would establish at the beginning of the project, agreements
satisfactory to the Association with one or more marketing com-
panies under which they would purchase meat from the abattoir at
Bunia and transport it to Kinshasa or other urban centers
(para 6.04);
(i) Government would establish satisfactory minimum prices at the
outset of the project.  Government would review these prices
at least annually in consultation with IDA and in order to
assist in future price revisions Government would establish
and maintain an appropriate index satisfactory to IDA which
would reflect beef production cost fluctuations (para 6.06).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness would be the satisfactory implementation
of any conditions required by CIDA or FMC as conditions of their participation.
8.03      A condition of disbursement for Project studies would be that
Government and IDA had reached agreement on the use of the funds (para 4.12).
8.04      A condition of disbursement for the veterinary and animal production
component would be the recruitment of the IPU Manager, the Veterinarian, and the
Financial Controller (para 5.02).
8.05      Conditions of disbursement for the ranching component would be:
(a) the signing of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement accept-
able to IDA between Government and ONDE (para 4.20)
(b) that the ranches had been transferred to ONDE with all
existing assets and free of liabilities (para 4.18);
and
(c) the recruitment of the Ranch Manager (para 5.05).
8.06      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
would be suitable to an IDA credit of US$8.0 million to the Government of
Zaire.



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE A
During negotiations agreement was reached in the following additional
points.
(a) Compulsory dipping of all cattle within a radius of 8 km
of an operational dip or spray race would be introduced.
Dipping materials in the first three years would be
charged at a subsidized price and thereafter, unless
otherwise agreed with IDA, the full charge would be
levied (para 4.02).
(b) Collectivity cattle per capita taxes charged in areas
where dipping facilities were operating would be removed
(para 4.02).
(c)  The establishment and use of the farmers credit fund would
be dependent on arrangements satisfactory to IDA (para 4.04).
(d) One or two years before their departure the FMC and FRG tech-
nical assistance staff would be assigned local deputies
who would take over from them at the end of their assignment
(para 4.11).
(e) Through the Department of Agriculture IPU would submit to
IDA annual audited accounts within six months of the close
of the financial year. Such accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para 4.23).
(f)  IPU would establish and maintain a revolving fund for
purchasing dipping materials, drugs and incoeulants for
sale to farmers. Government would provide funds (and
foreign exchange) necessary to meet farmers requirements
and to make up any shortfall in revenue through losses and
need to subsidize dipping materials. The revolving fund
or some other suitable and agreed mechanism, would be
maintained for ensuring the supply of dips and medicines
at a level necessary to maintain the improvement achieved
in animal health and production under the Project (para 5.03).
(g) Fees would be charged at levels sufficient to cover operating
costs of markets, rural slaughterhouses and stock routes
and would be credited to the veterinary services (para 6.10).
(h)  After 2 years Goverrinent, CIDA, FMC, FRG and IDA would exchange
views on the advisability of continuing the program as planned
(para 7.05).



-2-
ONDE:
(a) The small unhygienic bush slaughter operations near Kisangani
would be closed (para 4.10).
(b) Separate accounts for each ranch would be maintained and
each ranch would be developed and operated as a viable
commercial enterprise (para. 4.18).
(c) During the implementation period, four months before each
fiscal year, ONDE would submit to IDA for its approval ranch
and abattoir work plans and budgets for the following year (para
4.18 and 4.19).
(d)  The Kisangani abattoir would be transferred free of any
liabilities to ONDE.  Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs would
be run on commercial lines, and separate accounts would be
kept for each.  Fees and prices would be reviewed regularly
by Government and ONDE.  If for some reason ONDE is not
permitted to set fees or prices at a level sufficient to
operate the abattoirs profitably, then Government would
provide a subsidy. Short-term working capital to purchase
and process animals and hides for processing would be made
available either from Government sources, a commercial bank
loan or overdraft facilities and/or partial payment on
order in the case of Bunia abattoir (para 4.19).
(e) The terms of reference and acceptance of appointment for the
Financial Manager would be determined in consultation with
IDA (para 4.19).
(f) No changes would be made to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
between Government and ONDE without IDA's approval (para
4.20).
(g) ONDE's accounts for each ranch and abattoir would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; a statement of
physical assets of each entity and accounting systems would
be established at the outset of the Project. As in the case
of the first project, ONDE's audited accounts for all its
enterprises, audited by auditors acceptable to IDA, would be
forwarded to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (para 4.24).
(h) ONDE would consult with IDA over the appointment of ranch
manager for the ranches (para 5.05).



ANNEX 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BEEF PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND DEMAND
A. General
1.        Tropical forest spreads over about 45% of Zaire, while the remain-
der is covered by various types of savannah and water. Only about 1% of the
land is cultivated and large areas remain unused. 70% of the population (19
million) makes its living from agriculture, of which only 3% (600,000) are
raising cattle. The value of agriculture production was estimated at Z 192
million in 1973, of which about half resulted from commercial production.
Livestock, hunting, and fishing activities contributed only 6% (Z Il million)
to the total value added of the agricultural sector (Table 1). The contribu-
tion of this sector to GNP has regularly diminished in recent years and
amounted to only about 15% in 1974. This small percentage is due to:
(a) the generally low productivity in traditional agriculture;
(b)  the stagnation, if not decline in agricultural production
during past years;
(c) the inefficiencies in the rural marketing system and poor
extension services; and
(d) the low priority given to rural development by the Government.
Hence, per capita income in rural areas was estimated in 1974 at
only Z 15.0 (US$30) compared to Z 75 (US$150), the national average.l/
2.        Fish is the most important source of animal protein.  In 1973, of
the total fish and domestic livestock production (197,000 tons), fish repre-
sented about 80% (156,000 tons). Beef accounted for about 42% of the re-
mainder (41,000 tons) followed by pork, goats, sheep, and poultry (Table 2).
Local meat and fish production is inadequate to satisfy domestie demand and
41,000 tons of fish and meat were imported in 1973 (Table 3). Total beef
consumed was estimated at 24,000 tons of which 17,000 tons were locally pro-
duced and 7,000 tons imported. The annual per capita consumption of fish and
meat was 8 tQ 9 kg of which meat contributed 2.5 kg. Beef and offal consumption
1/   At the pre-March 12, 1976 exchange rate 1 Z = 2 US$.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of slightly more than 1 kg per person compares unfavorably with other coun-
tries in the region; that is, Central African Republic 13.2 kg, Chad 9.5 kg,
Gabon 5.9 kg and Rwanda 3.3 kg. Meat and fish supplies must be augmented
by game -- probably still a major but declining contributor -- and insects,
so that protein consumption by Zairians in 1973 was somewhat higher than es-
timated above. However, provisional statistics indicate that since 1973,
total protein production, in particular fish has declined, while imports
remained stagnant. Thus per capita consumption of animal protein is likely
to have declined during recent years. To reverse this trend, the government
plans to stimulate meat and fish production, for which Zaire has great po-
tential.
B. Beef Production
3.        Size of Herd.  Cattle are the most important livestock in Zaire.
In 1973, there were about 1 million head of cattle, 0.5 million pigs, 2.8
million sheep and goats, and 9 million chicken and other fowl (Table 4).
About 600,000 cattle are raised by pastoral herdsmen, small farmers and
ranchers for meat and milk, and 400,000 head were raised by ranching com-
panies, religious missions and Government farms until 1973. At the end
of 1973, the private ranching sector was nationalized and now all the ranch
lands belong to the State. Cattle farming is practiced especially in the
regions of Shaba, Kasai Oriental, Kivu and in the sub-region of Ituri, due to
the quality of the grazing lands and the presence of a favorable environment
(zones free of Glossina, proximity to consumer markets).  In the east, where
Trypanosomiasis is not so prevalent, cattle of the Afrikander breed, or the
zebu of Ituri are raised. On the other hand, in the west, priority is given
to the N'Dama strain, smaller and slower to develop, but tolerant to Trypano-
somiasis. Sheep and goats are held in small numbers in and around villages
or are herded in larger numbers, particularly in Haut-Zaire, Kivu, Kasai,
and Bandundu. Pigs and fowl are kept in and around villages and to a lesser
extent on pig or poultry farms.
4.        Commercial cattle raising was introduced in Zaire at the beginning
of the 20th Century and increased from 1,000 head in 1901 to 120,000 head in
1935 and 514,000 head in 1959. The traditional herd belonging to pastoralists
and smallholders also increased (1935: 194,000, 1959: 521,000) as a result of
population growth and the expanded meat sales opportunities which accompanied
the modernization of the economy.
5.        The civil disturbances of the 1960's adversely affected the live-
stock sector and many animals were killed or stolen. Most expatriate farm-
ers and some larger ranching companies stopped operating, disposing of their
remaining cattle by slaughtering or selling live to other ranchers. Large
herds of indigenous cattle were moved to neighboring countries. Veterinary
services stopped functioning. As a result, livestock numbers decreased by
25% for cattle and an average of 30% for other livestock. The decrease has
equally affected the traditional and the modern livestock sectors. After



ANNEX 1
Page 3
1965, livestock numbers have increased again, and presently they are reach-
ing their pre-independence level. In 1973, nearly 80% of the traditional
herds were in the northeastern region of Haut-Zaire and Kivu, while 60% of
the commercial cattle were in the Southeast, mainly in the Shaba region.
6.        Traditional Cattle Herders and Small Farms.  Government estimates
in 1974, although tentative, indicate that about 40,000 families in Haut-Zaire
and Kivu own over 450,000 head of cattle and market about Z 2.0 to Z 2.5
million worth of production a year, in addition to obtaining meat and milk for
their subsistence. In Bas Zaire, 57,000 head are kept on about 200 ranches
and farms owned by Zairians and sometimes organized as cooperatives. While
these farms are often classified as part of the improved livestock sector,
their management methods are variable. Other concentrations of smallholders
are found in Kasai Occidental and Shaba (particularly the Dilolo-Sandoa area).
Production from this sector is estimated at 7,000 tons of beef, reflecting low
off-take rates (8-10%) and the fact that traditional production methods have
hardly improved during past years.
7.        Commercial Ranches.  Until 1973, the Government owned or had a ma-
jority share in over 70 ranches, farms and research stations of various size.
Some had passed to complete Government ownership shortly after independence.
The management of these ranches was the responsibility of various bodies, in-
cluding INERA. In November 1973, however, the Government took over all pri-
vately owned commercial ranches and for the first few months entrusted ONDE
(Office National pour le Developpement de l'levage) with their management.
Then, however, management was transferred to various public agencies and com-
panies. The exploitation of smaller ranches was given to private Zairians,
while the Government retained ownership rights. Thus, the Government pre-
sently controls all major cattle ranches with the help of the following pub-
lic entities:
ONDE 1/                         100,000 head of cattle 2/
CELZA                           132,000 head of cattle
Domaine de la N'Sele             45,000 head of cattle
SGA                              33,000 head of cattle
Kilo - Moto                       3,000 head of cattle
Gecamines                            -
These entities are expected to operate commercially.  ONDE is currently sur-
veying the size of the herd on these ranches. Although results are not yet
available, most of these ranches are believed to be understocked.
8.        Over 80% of the cattle on public ranches is found in the Southeast,
particularly Shaba, because of favorable ecological conditions and the fast
1/   See Annex 7.
2/   Provisional figures.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
growing Kinshasa and Lubumbashi markets which are encouraging the expansion
of modern ranches. The three existing ranches in Ituri, belonging to the
Kilo-Moto mine, are considerably understocked and provide only part of the
meat required by the mining company.l/ Other ranches are located in the Lo-
wer Zaire region catering for the Kinshasa market. Animals are normally sold
at between four to five years of age and offtake varies from 15-18% on fully
developed ranches. In 1973, large ranches accounted for nearly 60% of domes-
tic beef production, producing 10,000 tons of beef from an estimated 50,000
heads. The Government plans to increase beef production by improving exist-
ing ranches and by establishing new properties. An IDA-financed ranching
project is presently being implemented to improve and expand cattle on the
Muhila, Mitwaba and Kayembe Mukulu ranches in the Shaba region (398-CK). The
Project also provides funds for preparing a third livestock project, which
still has to be identified.
C. Marketing of Cattle and Meat
9.        Wholesale Marketing.  Cattle and meat is marketed through public and
private channels. The beef wholesale trade is dominated by state companies,
in urban centers, in particular, by S.G.A. (Societe General D'Alimentation)
which has an import monopoly for meat. To cover the growing meat deficit in
Zaire, S.G.A. until recently imported an average of 1,000 tons of beef per
month, 650 tons for Kinshasa and about 300 tons for Shaba, the main consumption
centers in Zaire. It also imported 200 tons of offals, 200 tons of hens and
1,200 tons of fish per month. Until the end of 1974, S.G.A. imported meat
mainly from African countries, that is, Rhodesia, Kenya, Chad, Sudan, etc.,
while currently, S.G.A. imports from Ireland, France, South Africa and Latin
American countries. This change in the origin of meat supplies reflects favor-
able world market conditions for meat as well as increasing intra-African
transportation costs, especially for air transport. More specifically, African
exporting countries currently cannot compete with low world market prices caused
by the self-sufficiency policy and economic recession in the EEC countries and
the attempt by major world market suppliers to find new markets for their
surplus meat. Thus, consumers who were used to buying fresh African meat
changed rapidly - apparently without any major problems - to frozen meat com-
ing from European and Latin American countries. Until mid 1975, a free import
policy allowed beef supply to adjust to demand, but the growing shortage of
foreign exchange reserves has compelled the government to apply a more restric-
tive policy in recent months, which is expected to continue in the near future.
10.       S.G.A. currently purchases most of the production in Shaba, whether
produced by CELZA, ONDE or S.G.A. itself (S.G.A. owns a ranch with 33,000 head
of cattle). As mentioned above, cattle production in Shaba is dominated by
i/   For further details see Annex 5.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
ranches, which are located in the eastern and central sections of the region.
Most beef in Shaba is slaughtered and marketed in Lubumbashi, Likasi and
Kolwesi, while small pockets of consumption exist also in Kamina and Kalemie.
Transport of cattle, which is mostly done by trek and railroad to consumption
centers, is organized by the ranching companies themselves or by order. Cattle
are then sold to local butchers and state companies, before being slaughtered
in modern abattoirs. Shaba has, in fact, a network of adequate publicly owned
slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities of which the most important one is
owned by S.G.A. in Lubumbashi. Local beef supply in Shaba is not sufficient to
satisfy local demand so that until 1974 about 3,000 tons of beef were annually
imported. Indications are that the beef deficit in Shaba has continued to grow
in recent years.
11.       While state companies, in particular S.G.A., dominate beef market-
ing in Shaba, private traders handle most of the cattle trade in the Haut-
Zaire and Kivu regions.l/ Most livestock sold come from herds owned by
smallholders, who sell cattle in various primary markets directly to butchers
or to a variety of middlemen who organize transport, mostly by truck to more
distant urban centers, such as Kisangani, Bukavu, Isiro. Transportation is
handicapped by bad road conditions, in particular, during the rainy season,
when meat supply is very irregular causing local shortages in these centers.
After the cattle are sold to local butchers, slaughtering takes place in public
abattoirs. These facilities are often operated inefficiently and under
unsatisfactory sanitary conditions, because maintenance and replacements are
lacking and the slaughter fee of Z 1 per head of cattle would not cover normal
operating costs, not to mention regular maintenance and replacements. Hence,
abattoirs take considerable losses and the operation could only be made
profitable after substantial investments and organizational changes. Besides
private traders, ONDE, which operates the abattoir in Bunia, signed a contract
with S.G.A. in July 1975 to provide seven tons of meat a week for shipment to
Kinshasa. ONDE has since been successful in buying some cattle in parts of
Ituri, which are poorly served by private traders, thus providing a service to
smallholders and at the same time introducing a new element into the tradi-
tional marketing system. With the development of the Ituri livestock sector,
its role is expected to increase rapidly.
12.       Retail Marketing.  A multitude of small butchers and traders domi-
nate the retail market of beef in Zaire and meat often reaches the consumer
only after having passed through the hands of numerous intermediaries. In
major cities only about 30% of meat is sold through modern retail shops,
some of which are operated by state companies, such as S.G.A., Economat du
Peuple. The rest is sold by retailers, who rent small stands and shops in
traditional market places. Butchers cut meat into small pieces and sell it by
heaps, so that weight and quality can hardly be controlled. Competition among
retailers is limited by tacit agreements and new-comers find it difficult to
enter the market. There are, indeed indications that retailers try to limit
their supply, thus creating an artificial shortage of meat to boost prices
1/   For further details on marketing in Ituri, see Annex 2.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
and profits. The quasi-monopolistic behavior is illustrated by the fact that
retail prices for meat almost doubled during the last two years, while producer
prices for cattle increased only by 20 to 40%. This attitude is also encouraged
by irregular meat supplies which favor speculation. Finally, it partly explains
why meat supply in major cities remained almost stagnant, during recent years,
despite rapid urbanization and income growth.
13.       The present marketing system is adequate in bringing cattle and
meat from the producer to the consumer. It works with a fair degree of
competition, but its overall efficiency could be improved further by:
(a) removing obstacles to the free access to the market;
(b) expanding storage facilities to regularize meat supplies;
(c) setting-up regular air freight service between regions;
and
(d) providing better roads and road maintenance to facilitate
cattle transportation to markets;
It would not seem to be advisable to set up a national wholesale or retail
monopoly as the Government has done in other agricultural sectors. Consi-
dering, in fact, the particular complexity of cattle and meat marketing,
such a monopoly would hardly be able to provide the same services as the
present system and would, therefore, run the risk of being very inefficient
and thus become a considerable obstacle for developing a modern livestock
sector in Zaire.
D. Prices and Price Control
14.       An interdepartmental Committee is responsible for determining
maximum producer, wholesale and retail prices for livestock products.
Price control is under the responsibility of the Department of National
Economy who has controllers who inspect markets in all regions of the country.
The objective of price control is to protect consumers and to make meat
available to the urban population at low prices. In the past, however,
Government price controls were not always effective. For example, while
official producer prices remained the same from February 1973 until May 1976,
actual producer prices (paid in various parts of the country to producers
by traders/SGA), compared to official maximum prices, increased depending
on locality by 10 to 40%, and retail prices by more than 100%. The different



ANNEX 1
Page 7
rates of increase illustrate the fact that rapidly rising retail prices are
only partially passed on to producers by the present marketing system. How-
ever, it also reflects the fact that price controls have mainly been applied to
public ranches, which can easily be controlled. Indeed, while an unofficial
25% increase in Shaba ranch cattle prices in 1975 (24 k/kg/lw to 30 k/kg/lw)
was apparently tolerated by the Ministry of National Economy, further attempts
by ranches to increase prices were not allowed. As production costs almost
doubled during the past two years, ranch income was hardly sufficient to cover
operating cost, not to mention to yield a reasonable return on ranch invest-
ments. Thus, in the past two years, during which annual inflation rates ex-
ceeded 30%, only wholesale and retail traders seemed to have been able, not
only to protect the real purchasing power of their incomes, but also to in-
crease their profit margins, while producers' real income stagnated, if not
declined. Overall, the present price control system constitutes considerable
disincentive to improve modern and traditional livestock production; it is
hardly able to protect consumers as more than 70 % of all meat is retailed in
traditional markets, where controls can barely be enforced.
15.      The pressure on producer prices was compounded by two other factors.
As the share of imports has been growing in the country's meat supply, world
market prices have been playing a leading role in determining internal prices
for cattle and meat. Ranch cattle in Shaba have to compete with imported
meat now coming mainly from South-Africa, while surplus meat transported by
plane from the Northeastern regions (mainly Ituri) to Kinshasa have to compete
with the low prices of high quality European and Latin-American beef. Indeed,
world market prices fell sharply in 1974/75 reflecting the self-sufficiency
policy in beef of the EEC and the general recession in most industrialized
countries. A full recovery of the world beef market 1/ is not expected be-
fore the end of the 1970's. Moreover, the effect of low world market prices
was compounded by the considerable overvaluation of the Zairian currency.
Indeed, not only the current low world market prices for beef, but especially
the distortion in Zaire's exchange rate, have been an efficient means of
keeping absolute meat prices low. However, the influence of import prices
on domestic beef prices was considerably reduced in recent months, as imports
of all categories of meat were limited by exchange controls, creating a grow-
ing shortage of meat in all parts of Zaire. Finally, estimates indicate
that the March 1976 devaluation of the Zairian currency (the Zairian currency
has been pegged to the SDR), reflecting an actual devaluation of about 40% of
the Zaire, has reduced to a great extent the considerable distortion in the
country's foreign exchange rate, but at the same time substantially increased
meat prices and livestock production costs.
1/ See World Bank Report "Price Forecasts for Major Primary Commodities"
April 1976 in which it forecasts a 3% per annum growth between 1976
and 1980 and a 0.2% per annum growth to 1985.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
16.      Following the March 1976 devaluation of the Zairian currency, the
government substantially increased maximum producer prices for beef in May
1976.
Region              First Quality       Second Quality         Third Quality
----------------- Z/kg Liveweight -------------------
Bas Zaire                 .75                .67                     .67
Bandundu                  .71                .63                     .54
Equateur                  .65                .57                     .50
Haut Zaire                .70                .62                     .54
Kivu                      .65                .57                     .50
Shaba                    .75                 .67                     .57
Kasai Or. and Oc.         .75                .67                     .57
(Official prices        (.24)               (.21)                  (.19)
since February 1973)
Estimates indicate that this producer price increase will be sufficient to
yield a reasonable rate of return on existing smallholder and ranch invest-
ments. However, it would not be sufficient to achieve an adequate return on
new investment. The price level for cattle will therefore require further
review and adjustment. Moreover, as important as determining an adequate price
level for producers, will be the establishment of a price adjustment mechanism,
whereby past delays in bringing producer prices in line with cost developments
can be avoided. To set up such a price adjustment mechanism, producer prices
should be pegged to a relevant price/cost index and considered as minimum
prices to provide a reasonable return to ranches and smallholders. In fact,
if the past divergent trend in price and cost development were allowed to
continue, the development of Zaire livestock sector would be impossible. How-
ever, only the rapid development of the country's livestock potential will
make it less dependent on foreign supplies and provide additional income to its
farmers and increasing meat supplies to its consumers. This would, indeed,
provide the best protection for consumers against high meat prices in the long
run.
E. Demand and Supply Prospects
17.      There is insufficient information to trace the development of beef
consumption during the 1960's and early 1970's. It probably declined during
1960-1964 and started to rise again after 1965. A rise in export prices for



ANNEX 1
Page 9
copper and other minerals during the late 1960's provided a stimulus to the
economy.  To a large extent the additional revenue accrued to Government and
(through an expansion of the civil service and increase in Government expend-
iture) to the Kinshasa area in general. This had a positive effect on beef
* emand which showed an annual rise in consumption of 10% for beef between
1968-1971. During the same period GNP grew by 7% p.a. However, in 1972, when
copper prices fell, demand for beef declined. This decline continued in 1973,
when Zairianization of foreign-owned businesses accelerated the departure of
Europeans. Although beef consumption increased again in 1974, this rise is not
likely to continue in 1975 as copper prices fell again, which is forcing the
Government and other sectors to reduce spending. Thus, in 1975 total beef
consumption is not likely to have reached the high 1971 level, indicating that
per capita consumption of beef in recent years has tended to decline.
18.      The main factors determining future demand are population growth,
increases to income and price elasticities for the demand of meat. The
annual growth rate of the Zairian population is 2.6% and it is not expected
that this rate will change in the next 10 years. Zaire's economic growth
prospects are seriously affected by the stagnation in world output and
trade. In fact, its export earnings are declining, while import prices are
rising, resulting in a considerable deterioration of the country's terms of
trade. In addition, the rapid Zairianization of foreign-owned businesses,
farms and plantations in late 1973 continues to adversely affect commercial
activities as well as agricultural production and income. It is, therefore,
estimated that per capita income will grow at an annual rate of only 1 to
1.5% during the coming years.l/ At the end of the 1970's however, it is
expected that growth will again accelerate, as agricultural activities and,
in particular, world market copper prices are expected to rise. Hence,
from this period onwards, per capita income is likely to increase by 2 to
3% a year. Reliable figures on income elasticities for Zaire are very scarce.
Studies made in other African countries show that income elasticity of de-
mand for meat ranges from 0.7% to 1.5% depending on type of meat and con-
sumer groups. Past figures for Zaire on GNP growth and meat consumption
indicate that income elasticities for meat tend to be higher than 1. To
simplify demand projections, it was assumed before the recent devaluation
and price increase that annual income would grow by 5% and income elasticity
vary between 1 and 1.5% during the next 10 years. Based on these assump-
tions, domestic demand for meat was likely to increase between 5 and 7.5%
during the period 1976-1985. However, the above figures did not consider
the expected rise in meat prices (real terms) and their impact on demand
(negative price elasticities). Since no figures on price elasticities of
demand for beef are available in Zaire, the mission reduced the above percent-
ages slightly to 4 and 6% as a possible range for future beef consumption. On
this basis it was estimated that beef consumption would increase from an
estimated 30,000 tons in 1975 to respectively 44,000 tons and 54,000 tons
in 1985.
1/ World Bank: The Economy of Zaire, July 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 10
19.      Growth in domestic beef production, presently estimated at 17,000
tons, will very much depend on the rehabilitation of the nationalized
ranching sector which has the greatest potential for accelerating livestock
production in Zaire. The organization and management problems associated
with the Zairianization are likely to affect initial growth of this sector,
but as new management becomes more experienced, production could increase
from this sector in the early 1980's. The mission estimates that beef pro-
duction in the year 1985 will amount to about 30,000 tons compared to 17,000
in 1975. The additional growth of 13,000 tons will mainly originate from
livestock projects which are presently implemented and prepared, namely,
the Shaba Ranch Project (5,000 tons) and the Ituri Livestock Project (4,000
tons). The rest of the increase will mainly come from other commercial
ranches. This will represent an annual growth rate of 5.8%, but growth rates
will be much lower until the end of this decade before they gradually increase
at the beginning of the 1980's. Compared to projected consumption levels in
1985 of between 44,000 tons and 54,000 tons, available domestic supply will
leave a gap of between 14,000 and 24,000 tons to be imported.
20.      The above projections are necessarily speculative in nature and are
intended to describe only broad tendencies in Zaire's meat market. In the
medium term these projections must be reviewed in light of recent Government
measures, namely, the increase in domestic cattle prices and the substantial
devaluation of the Zairian currency which both will result in a steep rice of
beef prices. The expected rapid rise in the general price level will consider-
ably reduce the purchasing power of Zaire's population, especially that of its
urban inhabitants. It is likely therefore that meat consumption and imports
during the coming years may not rise and may even decline. Moreover, imports
of beef and other meat products will probably depend more on the availability
of foreign exchange and government measures rather than on consumer demand. A
recovery of the meat market will probably not ocurr before the beginning 80's
so that the projected deficit for 1985 will probably be at the lower level of
about 14,000 tons. Whatever dampening impact recent government measures will
have on the Zairian meat market, its dependence on foreign meat supplies will
not change in the foreseeable future and there will be room to absorb increased
supplies from local production.



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                          MOJET DE DEVELOPFEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN  ITURI
Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin                    froduit Intérieur Brut - Distribution Sectorielle
(In millions of current Zaire)                                  (En millions de zalres courants)
----------------------- Year/Année ----------------------
1968        1969         1970       1971        1972        1973
Primary Activities                                                                                                       Secteurs Pr1maires
Agriculture                              140.8        145.7        141.1      146.4       155.0       175.6           AgFiculture
Commercial                            (69.5)       (67.1)      (61.3)      (65.8)      (73.6)     (90.0)           8ecteur Commercial
Traditional                           (71.3)       (78.6)      (79.8)      (80.6)      (81.4)     (85.6)           Secteur Traditionnel
Livestock and Hunting                      8.3          9.6          5.2        5.3         5.2         5.6           Elevage et Chasse
Forestry                                3.1         4.8          3.3         3.5         4.2        4.9               yort
Fishing                                 3.8         4.7          5.5         5.7         5.9        6.2               Péche
Secondary Activities                                                                                                     Secteurs Secondaires
Mining and Metal Processing              121.2        190.5        107.8       87.5       100.3      303.0                Mines et Industries Métallurgtgues
,Uanufactu ing                            36.0         42.1         77.5       89.2       102.1       127.5               Industries Manufacturières
Construction                              22.7         31.5        45.0        59.1        50.3       50.8                Construction
Commercial                            (16.0)       (22.3)      (3u.0)      (39.4)      (33.6)     (35.4)               5etui,r-Cl
Traditional                            (6.7)        (9.2)       (15.0)     (19.7)      (16.7)     (15.4)               Seeteur traditionnel
Tertiary Activities                                                                                                       Sectes   Tertiaires
Trade                                     82.3         99.2        116.0      142.4       168.3       214.4               Coerce
General Government                        70.0         91.7        119.3      153.3       172.2       186.3               Gouve_semnt
Transport and Communication               38.4         46.9        75.9        86.4        97.3      108.2                Transport et Cousnication
Electricity, Gas and Water                 7.4          8.4         8.7         9.5         9.6        10.2           __lecqtricite, Gas et Eau
Financial Institutions                    12.8         17.4         19.4       22.2        22.8        24.7               Institutions Financières
Ownership of Dwellings                    19.1         24.6         36.1       42.3        38.9        40.0               propritJt Isoblière
Other Services                               58.0         71.2         84.0      100.9       121.2       131.1           Autres Services
GDP at Factor Cost                          623. g       788.3        844.8      953.7    1,053.3    1.38.5               PIB Aux Couts de Facteurs
Plus:  Net Indirect Taxes                127.2        167.4        198.8      183.5       195.5       263.3               Plus:  Taxes Indirectes Nettes
GDP at Market Price                         750.2        955.7     1.043.6    1,137.2    1.248.8    1.651.8               PIB Aux Ccots de Marché
Inputed Banking Service Charge              - 2.6        - 3.9        - 4.8      - 5.6       - 5.7       - 6.5            Charges Imputées pour Services lbncaires
GDP at Market Price                         747.6        951.8     1,038.8    1,131.6    1,243.1    1,645.3               PIB aux prix du Marché
Source:  Bank of Zaire, Annual Reports 1971-1972, 1972-1973 and data provided by the                                     Source: __ ue ee Zair  Rapports Annuels 1971-1972, 1972-1973
Zairian Authorities.  World Bank Economie Report - July 1975                                                             e   o   eurmes par -Lès Autorifs ZaYroises.
Rapport Economique de la Banque Mondiale - Juillet 1975   D
Jaouary 8, 1976                                                                                                                    Le o Janvier 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEIT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Meat Production                                         Production de Viande
(in tons)                                                 (en tonnes)
Years       Insects        Hunting        Fish        Pisci-        Cattle        Sheep & goats          Pigs        Poultry
Années      Insectes        Chasse        Pêche        culture       Bovins       Ovins & caprins        Porcs       Volailles
1970         32,120         70,000       136,550        2,470       15,685              2,582           7,606         8,900
1971         32,441         63,000       123,926        2,458       16,300              3,263           8.369         9,200
1972         32,765         56,000       144,670        2,506       18,458              4,078           9,877         9,500
1973         33,092         51,030       151,903        2,556       17,000              4,258          10,043         9,975
1974 4]      33,422         45,927       159,498        2,606       17,404              4,471          10,545        10,474
1975         33,756         45,334       127,473        2,658       17,932              4,694          11,073        10,997
1976         34,093         37,201       175,847        2,710       18,498              4,929          11,626        11,547
1977         34,433         33,481       184,639        2,764       19,024              5,175          12,125        12,208
1978         34,777         30,139       193,871        2,818       19,595              5,434          12,818        12,731
1979         35,124         27,120       203,564        2,874       20,182              5,706          13,459        13,367
1980         35,475         24,408       213,742        2,930       20,788              5,991          14,132         14,036
lV  1974-1980 estimates                                                                 1/  1974-1980 estimations
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture                                                         Source:  Ministère de l'Agriculture
January 8, 1976                                                                        Le  8 Janvier 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                      PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Volume of Imports of Principal Agricultural Products                                           Importations de Principaux Produits Agricoles
1959, 1968-73, Thousands of Tons                                                            1959, 1968-73, en Milliers de Tonnes
------------------------- Year/Année    -----------------------
ProdUwts                  1959     1968     1969      1970      1971     1972       1973 1/    Produits
Maize  2/                  6.0     57.7     64.6      64.0     100.0     85.0      125.0       Mals
Rice                       2.3     18.3      2.0      25.0      20.0     25.1       52.2       Riz
Potatoes                   2.0      3.5      3.2       4.5       4.5      3.2        5.0       Pommes de terre
Wheat and/or Flour        38.7     49.4     63.3      85.0      85.0     97.8      129.3       Blé et/ou farine
Sugar                     5.8      10.0     15.0     15.0       20.0     18.0       N.A.       Sucre
Meat and Meat Products    7.9       6.4      9.5      12.0      12.5     12.5       16.0       Viande et Produits de viande
Fish and Fish Products   34.2      20.0     24.6      24.8      25.0     25.1       25.0       Poisson et Produits de Poisson
Malt                      16.5     19.9     29.0      37.3      N.A.     65.0       40.5       Malt
Tobacco                    4.2     N.A.      3.6       4.1       5.4      3.8        5.0       Tabac
1/  Provisional.                                                   1/  Provisoire.
2/  Before its independence Zaire was an exporter country.         2/ Avant son indepencdance, le Zaîre était un pays exportateur.
Source:  Bank of Zaire's Annual Report 1972-1973 and               Source:  Rapport Annuel de la Banque de Za!re, 1972-1973 et
information provided by the Zairian Authorities                    informations fournies par les Authorités Zalroises.
January 8, 1976                                                     Le b janvier 1ly1(b
CD



ANUU/XIANNEXE 1
Table/Tableau 4
ZAIRE
ITU   LIVESTOCK DEVELOPflTf              PRJO f= DE DEVOUT DE L' ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Livestock Population from 1953 t'ç 1953   Evolutjon du Cheptel de 1959 à 19'(3
Cattle, Pigs, Sheep & Goats & Poultry   Bovins, Porcs, Ovins & CaPrina et de Volailler
Years           Cattle           Pigs            Sbeep & Goats             Poultry
AnnÉes          BovinB           Porcs           Ovins & Caprins           Volailles
1959        1,035,049        361s416              2,780,492              3,707,766
1963          900,202        3119749              2,032,441              3,132,404
1964          766,223        353,203              1,890,864              4,501,000
1965          798,793        385,993              1,800,020                 N.A.
1966          801,728        4109366              2,216,845              3,188,459
1967          798,965         416,594             2,094t326              297849793
1968          886,806        433,089              2,066,570              5,247,968
1969          956,413        4819104              2,449,075              79924,628
1970          973,522        488,049              2,468,059              8,449,000
1971          974,758        492,206              2,610,059              8,215,491
1972        1,047,565        549,877              2,681,870              8,495,220
1973        1,078,849        520,371              2,816,168              8,835,981
Source:  Estimates provided by Ministry of Agriculture
Source:  Estimations fournies par le Ministère de l'Agriculture
January 8, 1976
Le b janvier 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETING AND MEAT PROCESSING IN ITURI AND HAUT-ZAIRE
A. Present Situation
Production and Supply (Table 1)
1.       The Ituri sub-region currently produces 3,500 tons of beef 1/ i.e.,
20% of the national production, yet its total cattle herd of 297,000 head
represents one-third of the national herd. Production has been increasing
at 1.4% p.a. over the past 5-10 years. The rate of offtake is estimated at
10-11%, which gives annually 32,000 head of cattle available for sales and
self-consumption. Carcass yields are in the order of 48%. Ituri supplies
beef almost exclusively to Haut-Zaire, but it has an important export poten-
tial to supply other domestic markets, Kinshasa in particular. The current
marketing organization is one of the factors constraining a better offtake
and supply of cattle.
2.       The Ituri cattle industry includes two sectors:  the traditional
sector and the modern sector. The traditional sector, with 287,000 head
of cattle, is concentrated in the northern and southern parts of the sub-
region, the Zones of Aru and Irumu. Cattle raising is also a traditional
economic activity in the central part, the Zone of Djugu, but competes
with agriculture. This distribution of the traditional cattle industry
has been determined by the settlement pattern of the Ituri population
(see Annex 3, para 5).
3.       The modern sector includes 10,000 head of cattle distributed amongst
several ranches which had been established throughout the sub-region before
Independence. They were either privately owned or attached to zoo-technical
Stations or missions; in addition, Kilomines, the company exploiting the
gold mines, has set up some cattle ranches in order to produce meat and
dairy products for the population of the mines. Most ranches were "Zairia-
nized" in 1973. Some have been allocated to private citizens, others to
INDERA and the Veterinary Service. None were given to ONDE. Kilomines,
now a Zairian company, has kept the responsibility for its ranches.
1/ Unless otherwise specified the term "beef" will include beef meat
and offals throughout this Annex.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Demand for Itur Cattle (Table 2)
4.       Demand for Ituri cattle is greater than supply.  The population of
Haut-Zaire, which consumes 88% of the beef supplied from Ituri, has been in-
creasing rather fast, maybe faster than the overall population of Zaire (2.6%).
Meanwhile, beef supply has increased at 1.4% p.a. only, and per capita beef
consumption has been decreasing.
5.       Ituri consumes two-thirds of the beef it produces, although official
slaughter records (Table 3) give an indication that since 1970 beef consump-
tion has been declining in Ituri (except in Bunia and Aru Zone) both in ab-
solute and relative terms. Bunia, the largest town in Ituri with a popula-
tion of 30,000, consumes 3,000 head of cattle a year. It has the greatest
annual beef consumption per capita in Ituri and Haut-Zaire, i.e. 17.7 kg.
Contrary to the situation prevailing in other consumption centers of Ituri
and Haut-Zaire, beef is the main source of animal protein in Bunia, ahead of
pork, goat or fish. The other towns of Ituri have a much lower level of con-
sumption mainly because of their lower income. Consumption in the rural areas
is estimated at 12,390 animals, mainly young male cattle, which represents
only 2 kg of beef per capita. Kilomines consumes 450 head of cattle per annum
of which 250 are produced on its ranches.
Present Consumption of Ituri Cattle and Beef at Selected Centers
Consumption             No. of          No. of Cattle               Per Capita  a/
Center            Consumers             Consumed         %    Consumption beef
(kg)
HAUT-ZAIRE          2,942,970              28,295         88.0         1.4
Ituri                 972,445              21,245         66.0         3.2
-Bunia                24,600              3,200         10.0        18.9
-urban (w/o Bunia) 119,850                5,000         15.6         6.0
-rural              961,115              12,390         38.5         2.1
-mines                19,860                 450         1.4         3.3
-others                                      205
Kisangani              252,316               2,610         8.0         1.5
Isiro                                          130         0.4
others                                       4,310        13.0
CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE HAUT-ZAIRE
Kinshasa                                       400         1.0
Others                                       3,455        11.0
TOTAL                                       32,150       100.0
a/ Carcass weight: 115 kg; offals 30 kg. For the purpose of the per capita
consumption calculations; the meat consuming population has been defined
as the population of 5 years old and above, which constitutes approxi-
mately 82% of the total population.
Source: Table 2.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.       About one-third of Ituri's total beef production i.e., some 11,000
head of cattle, are exported from the sub-region to other centers of Haut-
Zaire such as Kisangani and Isiro, to North-Kivu, Uganda and Kinshasa.
(ONDE started a cattle purchase/slaughter operation in July 1975 for ex-
port to Kinshasa).
7.       Kisangani, the capital city of Haut-Zaire with a population of
300,000,1/ consumes annually over 2,600 head of cattle, may be 5,400 as
indicated bv transit permit records,2/ although fish and pork rank before
beef in the diet of its inhabitants. Cattle supplies are at times irregular
especially during the rainy season. The cattle is trucked live from Ituri on
the 700 km dirt road that connects Bunia to Kisangani.
8.       Isiro, a town of 60,000 inhabitants, is located in Haut-Uele at
some 450 kilometers from Aru Zone where it gets most of its supply of cat-
tle. Since 1971, Isiro's beef consumption has drastically decreased, from
almost 1,000 head to 130 in 1974. Reduction in income, poor transport in-
frastructure and resulting decline in cattle trade are the major causes for
Isiro's decreased demand for Ituri cattle. Once a prosperous trading center
for agricultural produce, economic activity in Isiro has declined consider-
ably.  The trek from Aru Zone to Mungbwere, from where cattle can travel by
train, has not been maintained. It is therefore no longer profitable for
traders to come regularly from Isiro to Aru Zone to purchase just a few
cattle.
Cattle Markets
9.       Location and Facilities.  In the past, a marketing infrastructure
was established throughout Ituri. Cattle markets were located according
to the same location pattern as production, hence markets can be identified
as three distinct groups: the northern markets, the central markets and the
southern markets. Most markets had properly equipped market places consist-
ing of a shed, scales, crushes and small holding grounds. Many of these facili-
ties have now fallen into disrepair although some of the scales are still in
working order. All northern markets have scales in working order. Only one
central market has facilities and scales; other markets have no facilities,
and people just meet at a given place. None of the southern markets except
the Bunia market, have scales in working order. A list of all existing mar-
kets and the status of facilities is found on the table below:
1/ Since 1970, Kisangani's population has been growing at 7% p.a.
Source:  Region du Haut-Zaire, Division Regionale des affaires
Politiques.
2/ Source: Region du Haut-Zaire, Rapport annuel du Service Veterinaire de
1974; Sous-region de L'Ituri. The mission has preferred to base its
estimates of the throughput of the Kisangani abattoir on official slaughter
records, assuming that the other 3,000 animals are consumed in La Tshopo
sub-region.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Facilities a/
Market                in use but requir-                 Scales
Name                     ing repairs    None    Working   Not Working   None
(may need
repairs)
Northern Markets
Aru Nyambere               x                     x
Kauchu                     x                     x
Mont Hawa                  x                     x
Kurumu                                 x         x
Apaa                                   x                                 x
Atchinia                               x          x
Adranga                                x          x
Mado                       x                      x
Central Market
Djugu                                  x
Djalasiga                              x
Luga                                   x
Mont-Rona                              x
Mytchapa                   x                       x                     x
Southern Markets
Bunia                                   x          x
N'denge                                 x                      x
Mandro                     x            x                      x         x
Kadanza                                 x                                x
Bogoro                     x                                   x
Gety                       x                                   x
Mitego                                  x                                x
Boga                       x                                   x
a/ Facilities = holding grounds, sheds, crushes.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
10.      Organization.  The Veterinary Service is currently responsible for
organizing and operating cattle markets in Ituri. The southern markets are
the most active and regular in the sub-region; the weight of animals on sale
is visually estimated and then the animals are auctioned. This procedure
also operates at Bunia market which has scales. In 1975, the Veterinary Ser-
vice successfully established a schedule of one market a week located in ro-
tation at each of the eight southern markets. Northern and central markets
are occasional, animals are weighed on scales or the weight is estimated at
sight and sales are based on a price per kilogram. No schedule exists for
the northern and central markets because the Veterinary Service assumes that
cattle owners will not give sufficient support. Traders themselves go to the
Veterinary Service for markets to be arranged. ONDE, however, has recently
held several markets in the north and one in the center. Its experience cor-
roborates northern stockowners complaints to the mission that they would sell
cattle if more traders came to the area. Traders on the other hand complain
of lack of organized markets (see para 16).
il.      The veterinary staff, usually an Infirmier and his aide, of the
sector in which the market is situated, are responsible for organizing and
running the market. They publicize market days in the areas concerned two
weeks in advance. Markets are normally attended by farmers from more than one
sector, and veterinary staff from neighboring sectors also come and run the
market. It is common to find 4 or 5 veterinary staff operating a market.
Their tasks include the registration of cattle: one agent numbers the cattle
for sale, another writes the card (name of owner, number and description of
animals) and collects the market fee, while a third agent weights or appraises
the animals if there are no scales; a fourth agent acts as an auctioneer or
sponsors the sale according to the system prevailing in that particular market
(see para 10) while a fifth one registers the traders, records the price for
animals sold and the buyer's name. Finally, either one supervises the trans-
action between seller and buyer. The sector Infirmier prepares the market
report which is sent to Bunia Veterinary headquarters.
12.      Market Agents.  Three types of traders can be established depending
on the consumption centers they service: the Ituri centers, the Haut-Zaire
and North Kivu centers and Kinshasa. Traders servicing Ituri consumption
centers, including Bunia, are all from the sub-region. They frequent the
closest cattle markets to the consumption center where they operate. Trad-
ers sell cattle to butchers but often are butchers thenselves.
13.      Traders for the Haut-Zaire and North Kivu consumption centers mainly
come from Kisangani, Bunia, Isiro and Beni.  A distinction must be made be-
tween Kisangani and Bunia traders, and Isiro and Beni traders. Most Kisan-
gani and Bunia traders have other businesses, transport, general merchandise,
meat retail etc; for them cattle are a "return load" on the truck operating
between Bunia and Kisangani. Isiro and Beni traders however, are only cat-
tle traders and butchers. Traders frequent different cattle markets according
to the destination of the cattle. Traders operating for the Kisangani and
North Kivu consumption centers tend to frequent cattle markets in southern



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Ituri; a few go occasionally to cattle markets in central and northern
Ituri. By contrast, traders operating for Isiro/Haut-Uele consumption centers
tend to frequent the cattle markets of northern Ituri. Recently some
traders from Isiro also attended southern markets.
14.      A few traders have come from Kinshasa to purchase cattle in the
southern markets, had them slaughtered and frozen at the Bunia abattoir and
flew them back to Kinshasa. When ONDE initiated a similar activity on ac-
count of SGA (see Annex 1) it purchased cattle only in the central and nor-
thern markets.
15.      No records of traders' attendance of cattle markets have been kept
except for the markets held in souther Ituri in 1975. The available infor-
mation indicates that the average number of traders per market day varies
between 13 and 20 and that the same buyer usually attends several markets per
month. Some 30 to 40 buyers or more may be regularly active on the southern
markets of Ituri. The mission received indications that the number of traders
operating in the southern markets has increased rapidly over the past few
years, while the number of traders operating in the northern markets has de-
creased (see para 8). This increase in the number of traders in southern
markets can be explained as follows: trade has deteriorated considerably
since the Zairianization measures of 1973 and have has become one of the few
commodities which can still be exported from Ituri and for which there exists
some marketing infrastructure. More traders have therefore entered the cattle
market of southern Ituri to get their "return load". Meanwhile, traders have
lost interest in northern markets for two major reasons: first, the decline
in demand in Isiro/Haut-Uele as explained in para 8; second, the deterioration
of the road infrastructure within Ituri hampers cattle trucking from Aru to
Kisangani via Bunia; traders are unwilling to trek cattle lest they be
lost or stolen on the way.
16.      Market Throughput.  Official market reports record about 6,000 head
of cattle traded annually in Ituri markets; this is likely to be an underes-
timate, since records are incomplete, especially in the northern and cen-
tral zones (Table 4). Various other records suggest that a least 14,000
head of cattle must be traded, of which 11,000 are exported outside Ituri and
3,000 are consumed in Bunia. Even discounting the Uganda trade and cattle
consumption in rural areas and small towns of Ituri, of which only few may
have been purchased on cattle markets, 8,000 head of cattle not accounted
for in market records suggests extensive bushtrading or other non recorded
sales.
17.      Licenses and Fees.  There are three types of traders' licence
Inter-regional trade:      Z 120:00 annually
Regional trade             Z  80:00    "
Sub-regional trade  :      Z  40:00    "



ANNEX 2
Page 7
This licence system is valid throughout Zaire. The proceeds from the li-
cences go to the central revenue service. A market fee of Z 1:00 per head
of cattle is paid by farmers when cattle are registered for sale at the
market. It is not reimbursed if cattle are not sold. The proceeds of the
market fees go to the Collectivities.
18.      Cattle Movements.  Cattle maove by trek from Aru-Zone to Haut-Uele,
from Irumu Zone to North Kivu and from the southern markets to Bunia. They
move by road/truck from Bunia to Kisangani. In the past a trek existed to
move cattle from Aru Zone to Bunia. It is no longer used because two small
bridges need repairs. When ONDE started purchasing cattle in Aru Zone for
the Bunia abattoir it experimented with two treks. Both originate in Kere-
kere; one thereafter follows the "route des mines" while the other follows
the major road from Aru to Bunia. The former is very rocky, the distance
between the "authorized" night stops is very long, and the trip takes about
10 days. The latter is shorter but goes through an area of intensive agri-
culture with little grazing land; the trip takes about 7 days.
19.      The veterinary service is in charge of controlling cattle movements.
All stock moved out of a zone or out of the sub-region require a transit
permit which can be obtained at no cost at headquarters only. Traders often
omit this formality because the distance between markets and zone headquar-
ters is too great.
Abattoirs, Meat Processing facilities, Rural Slaughterhouses
20.      There are three modern abattoirs in Haut-Zaire - Bunia, with a capa-
city of 20,000 to 25,000 cattle; Kisangani, with a capacity of 18,000 cattle;
and a small one in Isiro. Because of inadequate maintenance and repairs only
parts of the plants are functioning (see Annex 6 on abattoirs). There is a
charcuterie (meat processing plant) at Soleniama near Bunia. No records of
its output are available.
21.      Official statistics recorded 3,700 head of cattle killed in rural
slaughterhouses of Ituri in 1974. (This figure may represent only the
slaughter records of zone and major sector headquarters). Each collectivity
has at least one small slaughterhouse, some times more, depending on the size
and religious composition of the collectivity. The slaughterhouses are lo-
cated either in small towns or, in the rural areas, near a dip or a veteri-
nary dispensary.
22.      A typical village slaughterhouse is a square building of good con-
struction, designed with proper drainage and ventilation, close to a water
supply, and provided sometimes with a slaughter slab. Most village slaughter-
houses were originally equipped with proper hoist and gambrels. Many of them
have an adjoining hide drying shed, ventilated on three sides with wire mesh
panels and equipped with wooden frames for suspension drying. Few have been
properly maintained and repaired. Many have fallen into disuse or are used in
most unsatisfactory hygienic conditions. The hide sheds are seldom used.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
23.       The Veterinary Service is responsible for the operation and main-
tenance of the village slaughterhouses, for meat inspection and slaughter re-
cords, but it lacks adequate staff and funds and staff time is not adequately
apportioned for this purpose. The butchers often kill and flay the animals
themselves, then retail the meat on the local markets. The current (Septem-
ber 1975) slaughter fee of Z 1.00 for big cattle, Z .75 for pigs and small
livestock, uniformly applicable throughout the country for any slaughter
service, is rarely collected.
Wholesale and Retail Markets
24.       There is no formal wholesale market of carcasses in Ituri.  There
is a very limited one in Kisangani and Isiro where before having the animals
slaughtered, traders have often made a previous purchase arrangement with the
butchers, who take on the condemnation risk. The Societe Generale d'Alimen-
tation - SGA (Annex 1 para 9) is not yet active as a wholesale trader as it
is in Kinshasa and Shaba.
25.       Meat is retailed at two different types of outlets:  (a) at the
central market, which is a daily market in major towns (Kisangani, Bunia,
etc.), weekly or bi-weekly in small towns, fortnightly or monthly in the
rural areas; meat and offals are sold in small heaps; (b) at modern butcher
shops (1 in Bunia, 6 in Kisangani of which one belongs to SGA); meat is
sold according to European cuts. Modern butchers have wholesale arrange-
ments with market butchers and rent them some of their cold storage capacity.
Prices
26.       As discussed  in Annex 1, para 14, the Government price policy is
to fix maximum prices. In 1975 and early 1976 the official maximum producer
price were still maintained at the level set following official price changes
made on February 2, 1973. These prices were thought too high at the time in
Ituri and the Ituri Agriculture Department negotiated lover prices for each of
the three zones and established different weight requirements for each zone
attempting to reflect the type of cattle found there. However, information on
price trends available from the southern markets only (table 4) indicates that
price controls are not very effective and that prices in those markets in-
creased between 1972 and 1975 and exceeded the maximum prices established.
Prices, however, were still too low to justify investing in ranching and
ranches were operating at a loss. Then in May 1976 official marimuum cattle
prices were increased threefold; no information is available on how producers
prices have reacted to this measure.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Official Liveweight Cattle Prices (Producer Prices)
(Z/kg)
---------------1972 to April 1976---------------
National
Aru Zone     Djugu Zone    Irumu Zone    Max. Price  May
Grade                Grade  Z/kg  Grade   Z/kg  Grade   Z/kg        Z/kg      1976
lst quality steers   350 kg &       350 kg &      300 kg &            .24       .70
more .21     more .20      more .18
2nd quality adult    300-350        300-350       250-300             .20       .62
cattle in good             kg  .20       kg  .18       kg  .20
condition
3rd quality cull      300 or        300 or        250 or              .19       .54
animals                    less .19    less .17       less .16
Source:  Annual reports of Regional Veterinary Service.
27.       Between 1972 and 1975 producer prices of other classes of stock also
increased, probably at a faster rate than cattle as can be seen from the fol-
lowing table:
Liveweight Prices (Trader to Butcher Prices)
(Z/animal)
------1972------        -------1973                -------1974
Kisangani       Bunia    Kisangani         Bunia    Kisangani       Bunia
Pigs   (           2.00-7.00    14.0             (          18.00       9.00-15.00
Goats  ( n.a.    1.50-4.00    10.0               ( n.a.   15.0          8.00-10.00
Sheep  (           1.50-4.00    10.0             (          15.0       5.00-10.00
Source:  Annual reports of Regional Veterinary Service.
28.       Little reliable information exists on wholesale prices in Haut-
Zaire.  It would seem, however, that between 1972 and 1975 they increased
substantially above the maximum wholesale prices established by the Govern-
ment.
Wholesale Prices
(Z/kg/carcass)
---1973/74                                       1975
Kisangani      Bunia     Isiro      Kisangani        Bunia       Isiro
Beef          .60     .40-30 a/      n.a       .60-80 b/                  (.80-85)
Pork          .50    (                         .65             (          (
Goat/sheep   .50    (   n.a.                                   ( n.a.    (  n.a.
Source:  Annual reports of Regional Veterinary Service



ANNEX 2
Page 10
29.       Similarly, no information is available on actual retail prices in
Haut-Zaire between 1973 and 1976 except for the price lists established by
the Government, which are posted in modern butcher shops and for Ituri prices
(see Annex 2, Table 6). The mission received some indication that retail
prices in the central market of Kisangani in September 1975 were 100% higher
than Government prices.
30.       Several factors contribute to the pressure on cattle and beef prices
in Haut-Zaire: the general inflation in Zaire, the increase in production and
transport costs, the deficiencies in the present marketing system, and most
importantly, the growing gap between supply and demand of all meat products
as production is not keeping up with population growth (see para 4). However,
the Government believes that the main factor is the increasing number of
traders profiting from the inadequate supply of cattle. To reduce the number
of these traders, the Regional Department of Agriculture has suggested limit-
ing cattle trading to truck owners. There are also indications that the
Governnent is considering setting up a national wholesale monopoly for meat
as it has done for other agricultural products. Limiting the free access
to markets would only reduce competition among traders and risk causing further
increases in beef prices and a squeeze in producer prices. Moreover, a pub-
lic wholesale monopoly would hardly be able to provide the same services
as present traders and would not ensure the improvements in the marketing
system necessary to stimulate production and supply of cattle.
31.       In 1975, Ituri beef sold in Kinshasa was competitive with imported
beef. With an exchange rate of Z 1 to US$2 Ituri beef which had been pur-
chased at Z 0.24 to 0.26 per kg liveweight (Z .48 to .50 per kg CDW) was
landed in Kinshasa at Z .85 per kg carcass (US$1.70) after meeting an air-
freight charge of Z 0.25 per kg. This compared with beef imports from An-
gola and France at Z 0.95 per kg (US$1.90) and Kenya Z 1.15 (US$2.30). No
information on prices producers are actually receiving as a result of the re-
cent rise in prices is available but if Z .60 per kg is being paid per kg
liveweight and airfreight costs have risen 60% then the landed cost in Kin-
shasa might be in the region of Z 1.75 (or US$2.00), which is about the price
of imported meat and certainly so if the overvaluation of the Zaire is taken
into acount. Presently, Ituri beef is inferior in quality to imported beef
but since SGA controls the wholesale market and gives butchers no choice as
to the origin or quality of the carcasses which it sells, Ituri beef could
be scld just as well.
Hides and Skins
32.       Most hides and skins produced in Haut-Zaire and Ituri appear to be
wasted, which represents a substantial loss of income for cattle owners.
There is little market in them and no organization to prepare, dry or collect
them. There is no evidence of rural trading. The main sellers are the but-
chers and the only buyer is the Bata agent in Bunia. Hides produced at the
Bunia abattoir are of low grade and have a reputation for poor flaying, ir-
regular shape, cuts and gauging, bad fleshing, washing and suspension drying.
Hides handled by the Bata agent in Bunia are also of poor quality: they are



ANNEX 2
Page 11
dried by suspension between trees prior to being dispatched to Kinshasa.
Hides produced at the Kisangani abattoir are now being dried and sold to
the agent in Bunia, while, at one time, they were discarded as valueless.
However, all the hides seen by the mission at Kisangani would be classified
by the tanners as rejects. In 1975 wet hides fetched 9 k a kilo, and dried
hides 18 k a kilo (the average weight of the dried hides is 9 kg).
B. The Sub-Project
33.       The main objectives of the marketing and meat processing component
of the Project would be: (a) to increase and improve the supply of cattle and
beef to satisfy regional demand and build up an exportable surplus to Kin-
shasa; (b) to rehabilitate and develop market facilities; (c) to rehabilitate
a stock route; (d) to improve two abattoirs and village slaughter houses;
(e) to organize the processing and trade of hides and skins; (f) to monitor
the marketing and meat processing sector of the cattle/beef industry.
Supply Prospects
34.       Total meat production in Ituri would reach about 7,500 tons includ-
ing ranch production by Year Il of the Project (see Table 1). The expected
Project incremental beef production (4,000 tons) would be similar to the
increase expected from the first IDA Livestock Project in Shaba.  The rate of
offtake in the traditional herd would increase from 10-11% to 15% over the same
period.
Demand Prospects
35.       Little information is available on population growth, income and
income and price elasticities for beef in Haut-Zaire.  Overall population
is estimated to increase at the national average rate of 2.6% with a some-
what lower growth rate for the rural population and a more rapid increase
of urban inhabitants (perhaps 7%). Economic activities in Haut-Zaire have
declined rapidly during recent years and a full recovery is not expected
before the early 1980's. In fact, new industrial development schemes and
efforts to rehabilitate and stimulate agricultural production will not ma-
terialize before the end of the decade. In September 1975 it was expected
that rural beef consumption would probably rise at the same rate as popula-
tion growth, while urban beef consumption (Bunia and Kisangani) was expected
to grow at a maximum of 3% per annum until 1980 and 4% thereafter. As urban
population is likely to increase at a faster rate, per capita consumption
of beef in urban centers was likely to decline. Thus, overall per capita
consumption of beef in the Haut-Zaire region would tend to decline or at
best stagnate during the next 10 years. Based on these projections the total
amount of beef consumed in Haut-Zaire would have amounted to 4,300 tons in
the mid-eighties. As 7,500 tons of beef will be produced in Ituri (see para
34) a net surplus of 3,000 tons of Ituri meat would be available for shipment
outside of Haut-Zaire compared to 54 tons in 1975. This represents three



ANNEX 2
Page 12
months of imports at their current level and savings of US$5.7 million at
current average import prices ($1.90). These shipments of beef would amount
to 57 tons of meat to be transported by SGA from Bunia every week which will
require considerable improvements in the present air transport arrangements.
36.       However, the above projections must be reviewed in light of recent
substantial increase in domestic beef prices (see para 26) and the devalua-
tion of the Zairian currency, which both will result in a steep rise of
domestic beef prices. The expected rapid rise in domestic prices will sub-
stantially reduce the purchasing power of the population, especially that of
its urban inhabitants. It is likely, therefore, that higher prices for meat
production, lower real income and limited development prospects may result in a
stagnation if not decline in beef consumption in Haut Zaire in the medium
term, especially in its urban centers, thus increasing the surplus of meat from
Ituri. But whatever the prospects for meat consumption in Haut Zaire may be,
which are difficult to quatify at this stage, the supplies of beef produced by
the Ituri Project will find a ready market in Kinshasa and other major urban
centers in Zaire.
Cattle Markets
37.       Investment.  The proposed project would rehabilitate 9 of the 21
existing markets including overhaul and repair of the existing facilities
and scales (see Table following para 9). It would also provide for new
scales and new facilities for the markets which do not have any. In addi-
tion, the project would finance the creation of one new market in the cen-
tral zone. Mount Rona was named to the mission as a desirable location
but it would be left to the marketing expert of the Project team to decide
on the exact location of the new market. Too few cattle are available in
central Ituri to justify project intervention in the remaining three mar-
kets. If the need to create additional markets were felt at a later stage,
the Governnent would consider this. Total investment costs would amount to
Z 31,500 (Table 7).
38.       Organization.  All markets would operate with scales and sales
would be based on a price per kilogram. Market schedules would be prepared
for each zone; the frequency of the markets would increase with offtake.
The Veterinary Service would remain in charge of the operation and mainten-
ance of the markets. It would have manpower available among its field
staff. Adequate guidelines would be prepared to avoid the current over-
staffing at the market place. The Project would also examine market re-
quirements and make recommendations, for example, to shift the total mar-
keting responsibility to the collectivities so that the Veterinary and
Animal Production Services can devote themselves more fully to their speci-
fic goals. The additional manpower that would become necessary as the fre-
quency and the throughput of the markets increased could, as a first step,
be recruited from the collectivities and be trained by the Veterinary Ser-
vice. Finally, the Project would establish such market regulations as the
veterinary control of animals. The cattle would be dipped or sprayed before



ANNEX 2
Page 13
going or on its way to the market in order to limit the risk of contamina-
tion during transit. The vaccination and dipping records of each animal
would be checked when the cattle are registered upon arrival at the mar-
ket.
39.       Agents - ONDE would increase its activity on the cattle markets
of Ituri in competition with private farmers and traders and act as residual
buyer. The unfinished stock would be sent to fattening ranches while the
mature ones would be purchased by the Bunia abattoir for export to Kinshasa.
ONDE's presence would have a stabilizing effect and allow for implementation of
a floor producer's price (see para 48 below). ONDE would also develop a pig
purchase/slaughter operation, also for export to Kinshasa.
Throughput Costs and Fees
40.       Traders and officials stressed that the markets would be better
used if rehabilitated and better organized. It has therefore been estimated
that market throughput would increase from less than 55% to 75% of all cat-
tle traded. Providing throughput is achieved (and this must remain speculative
since farmers may prefer to sell outside markets) a market fee of Z .40 per
head of cattle on the increased throughput would be sufficient to cover opera-
ting costs and generate enough profit to provide an adequate return on the
new investment (Table 8).  However, in view of the limited scope for taxing
livestock owners for the Veterinary Service provided by the Project and the
possible delays in achieving the increased throughput it is intended to main-
tain the present fees of Z 1.00 per head of cattle. Of course, this high fee
might be a disincentive to use markets and the Project might decide later to
lower fees to encourage market usage. Since the Veterinary Service would be
responsible for maintaining these markets it is recommended that fees be
credited as revenue to the Department. Government would provide investment
funds needed and annual operating costs as indicated in Tables 7 and 8. IDA
would contribute towards the investment costs.
Stock Route (see map)
41.       Northern traders and ranches would benefit from the reopening of the
stock route although it remains to be seen whether the former would use it
despite their statements that they would. The proposed project would re-
habilitate the 200-250 km stock route which had been established by Kilomines
(para 18). A special decree would have to be issued to officially recognize
the stock route and 10 night kraals. Water is plentiful throughout the area.
The major investment would be for the repairs of two bridges. The estimated
throughput of the stock route would not justify its rehabilitation before
the third year of the project (Table 8), by which time its full value could
be reassessed. The cattle which ONDE would have to move until then could
keep using the "route des mines". The transit of cattle on the new stock
route would not take more than five days.
42.       Investment in the stockroute (Z 36,800) would be an overall Pro-
ject cost since it would serve both ranches and traditional stock owners.
Government would be financially responsible for developing and maintaining



ANNEX 2
Page 14
it, but would delegate responsibility for building and running it to ONDE.
A charge presently estimated at Z .65 would be made. The charge would cover
operating costs and generate sufficient profit to give an adequate return on
the capital invested. The proceeds would be collected by the Veterinary
Service. As an internal administrative matter Kerekere would undertake the
development, maintain the stock route and keep the accounts and be reimbursed
for this service by the Veterinary Department. Investment and operating cost
estimates are given in Tables 7 and 8.
Rural Slaughterhouse
43.       At least 40 rural slaughterhouses (1 per collectivity) would be
rehabilitated by the project in order to: (a) increase health and sanitary
standards; and (b) to recover the hides which are currently lost throughout
the sub-region. The marketing expert in the project would do the final sur-
vey of the work to be done in the first year of the project; the investment
(Z 99,800) would be implemented over years 2 and 3. This component of the
project would represent extension of the abattoir component, and it would be
the responsibility of the marketing expert to train staff in proper killing
and flaying techniques.
44.       In small towns, all slaughtering would have to be done at the
slaughterhouses. It is hoped that in addition, the throughput of these
slaughterhouses could be increased by about 20% of rural slaughtering in
Year I to about 40% after 10 years. The main incentive for cattle owner/
butchers to use the slaughtering facilities would be the possibility of
selling hides and skins at a good price, and emphasis would be placed on
developing this service. The Veterinary Service would be responsible for
village slaughterhouses including meat inspection, supervision of killing
and flaying of animals, drying of hides, overall maintenance of facilities,
and maintenance of slaughter records. A slaughter fee of Z 1.00 for big
cattle and Z .75 for pigs and small animals would be established and col-
lected by the Veterinary Service. These fees would just about cover opera-
ting costs and if the profit forecast from sale of hides materializes the
total income would provide an adequate return on capital invested, but
would not allow for insurance against condemnation as included in the
slaughter fees established for the abattoirs of Bunia and Kisangani (Annex
6 para 30). Government would provide the investment and operating cost in-
cluding funds to purchase hides as estimated in Tables 7 and 9. IDA would
contribute towards investment costs. It has been assumed that the Veteri-
nary Department would purchase hides of cattle slaughtered at the centers
and sell them to ONDE but is possible that other arrangements may be pre-
ferred by the Project since it may be difficult to make arrangements for each
payment at slaughterhouses. Estimates of hide purchases in the first three
years are probably optimistic but give some idea of what can be achieved.
Should the net revenue from hides not materialize then slaughter fees would
have to be revised.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Prices
45.       The long-term viability of the livestock industry in Ituri mainly
depends on the price policy which will be adopted by Government. In May 1976,
offical maximum cattle prices were tripled to compensate for past inflation
and the price effects of recent Government decisions. Although the prices
established in May 1976 were a marked improvement over past prices, they
are still too low to compensate for the increase in production costs which
took place since 1973. This is especially critical for the ranches which
have to incur higher investment and operating costs in order to produce higher
quality cattle. Therefore the mission estimated that a further increase of
30% for the top two grades of cattle will be required by January 1977 to
achieve adequate returns on new investments in the livestock sector. These
suggested new producers prices are illustrated below:
Official Prices           Proposed  % Increase
Feb. 1973   Actual   May 1976    Prices        on May
1975                           1976 Prices
-----------Z per kg liveweight-----------
Quality steers and heifers
over 350 kg                   .24         .25       .70         .91         30%
Quality steers, heifers
and cows in good condi-
tion 260-350 kg               .19        .22        .62         .80          30%
Quality culled bulls and
animals under 260 kg          .17        .17        .54         .54
46.       The prices being recommended by the mission should be regarded as
starting prices, not maximum prices.  Further price policy should aim at
establishing minimum producer and consumer prices. The producer prices would
be regularly adjusted according to a price index which would reflect production
cost fluctuations; consideration would be given to linking it with an average
c.i.f. import price. Allowance would be made to accommodate special measures
in case of exceptional fluctuations in world market prices. Actual future
market prices will then fluctuate above this regularly adjusted minimum price
level reflecting supply and demand conditions. Current projections indicate
that relative world market prices for beef are expected to rise in coming
years.l/ Moreover, supply and demand projections for beef in Zaire also
indicate a growing shortage of meat, so that relative prices for cattle and
meat are likely to increase in the future. Whether these expected price
increases will be passed on to the producer will depend on a better integration
of smallholders into the market economy, improvement in the marketing system,
but mainly on Government's pricing policy. Implementation of the proposed
1/ World Bank - Price Forecasts for Major Primary Commodities, July 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
minimum price legislation for cattle producers in the Ituri region would be
backed by ONDE, which will gradually become one of the principal buyers of
cattle in the Ituri sub-region competing with private farmers and traders for
immatures andd slaughter cattle. Other private traders will then have to buy
in competition with ONDE and thus adjust to the prices it pays, as will whole-
sale and retail prices for meat.
47.       To establish a cost/price index it is suggested to analyze the
production costs of a fully developed ranch. To simplify the establishment
and the future use of this index, only the main production inputs, such as
labor, drugs, minerals and fuel should be considered and their relative im-
portance in total production cost be weighted. The base period (100) for
se.tting up the index should be the beginning of 1977 and thereafter the price
increases for the above items should be computed on a regular basis. Every
6 months, or at least at the end of each year, cattle prices should be ad-
justed to remain in line with production cost increases. The methodology
of the Lasperge price index, should be followed.
48.       The prices recommended by the mission, still leave Ituri beef
delivered at Kinshasa competitive with imported beef or with beef produced
in other regions, although the differences in quality between various beef
imported and produced makes the comparison difficult. Presently, Ituri beef
is of lower quality than most imported or locally produced beef; however, the
quality will improve considerably with the development of fattening and breed-
ing ranches. Three main qualities of beef would be produced which can be pro-
fitably sold at Bunia by ONDE to S.G.A. at a price ranging from Z 1.15 to
Z 1.75, which, delivered at Kinshasa, represents a price range from Z 1.60 to
Z 2.20. The price range of imported beefs delivered at Kinshasa is also
Z 1.60 to Z 2.20, but would be Z 2.00 to Z 2.80 if the prevailing overvaluation
of the currency (26%) is taken into account. The competitiveness of the Ituri
beef will, therefore, mostly depend on the valuation of the Zaire and on the
quality improvement that will result from the Project. In the short-term, the
foreign exchange constraints of the country are such that Ituri beef will find
a ready market in Zaire as import substitute.
49.       As the success of the Project depends on the implementation of a
more producer-oriented price policy, Government undertook at negotiations to
make the recommended price changes prior to the project-going to the Board.
Financial projections are based on the mission's Dronosed nroducer Drices.
Hides and Skins
50.       The Project would introduce the possibility for traders, cattle
owners and butchers to sell their fresh hides and skins to the village



ANNEX 2
Page 17
slaughterhouse and to the Kisangani and Bunia abattoirs where they would be
cleaned and dried. A uniform price of Z 2.25 per unit would be offered for
fresh hides and Z .75 for skins (Annex 6, para 48). The Project would de-
sign a system of gathering points where ONDE/Bunia abattoir would collect
hides and skins from the rural slaughterhouses of Ituri.
SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT, OPERATING COSTS AND REVENUES OF THE MARKETING AND
MEAT PROCESSING PROJECT COMPONENTS (Z)
(Z'000)
________---------Year-----------------
1       2        3        4        5       Total
Markets
Investment                       6.1      17.5    7.9        -       -        31.5
Operating Costs                  1.0       1.2    1.7      2.9      2.9
Operating Revenues               4.5       4.8    5.5       6.3     7.5
Financial Rate
of Return /1                     18%
Sensitivity - if costs
rise 10%                         14%
Benefits delayed 3 years             6%
Stock Route
Investment                         -       -      36.8       -       -        36.8
Operating Costs                    -       -       0.5      0.9      1.8
Operating Revenues                 -       -       1.5      2.2     3.2
Financial Rate
of Return /1                    10%
Sensitivity - if costs
rise 10%                         9%
Benefits delayed 3 years             9%
Slaughter Slabs
Investment                         -      49.9   49.9        -       -         99.8
Operting Costs                   6.6      44.2   47.3    52.1    55.7
Operating Revenues               9.2      59.1   63.1    68.8    73.7
Financial Rate
of Return /1                    18%
Sensitivity - if costs rise 10%  10%
If benefits delayed
3 years                          0%
Total Investment Cost                  6.1    67.4    94.6                         168.1
/1     Source:  Annex 2, Tables 7, 8, 9, & 10.



lAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOQG  DEVELORMENTBCTPOET                                                               PnJoTD D I EoVELPPE8T DE L'PLEVAQ Ti IDTi
Sales  tf Cattie                                                                                       Ventes D* Bétail
(nter of Annsis1)                                                                                      (Bombe D'Anisax)
Before ~ ~ ~ ~~ --  -----_______   __---------------------------- ------------- Yev/Anné --------------------------------------------------------~--
Avant le Projet       1                           a q        6             s            6            7            8            O            1t In-50
T-oditivaul Uerd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tr.d.t.osel-/
Henfers 9-24  -onthe                                          584               601          620          658          694          745          799          851          876          888           925             946                 s1n.ssse. 9-24  oti
Baîls/steers 9-24 months                                    2,336            2,461        2,598        3,602        3,967        4,968         6,090        6,488        7,099        7,190        7,490            7,654                Tssreaaa/bssellloo. 9-24 mol
Heifers 24-36 -.otha                                          292               287          297          467          501          650          802          863        1,400        1,515         1,534           1,598                Génises 24-36 -ois
Salle/stoors 24-36 nanths                                   9,052            9,353        9,603       10,090       10,706       11,827        12,200       13,449       14,326       14,560       14,744           15,364                TOutOaufbs/bvillo.s 24-36 -sais
Cota  ad haîfers sver 36 e0,tbs                             9,490            9,601       10,095       10,634       11,230       11,972        12,718       15,141       17,665       18,182       20,888           24,900                Vaches et Gi..sse. de pl.s da 36 moti
Bu11e/Otnenn 34-48 couthe                                   3,504            3,792        3,811        3,918        4,182        4,360         4,507        5,012        5,034        5,516        5,607            5,678                Taoreuo/beavtlloos 36-48  is
Balîs/steers 48-60 conths                                   1,460            1,457        1,478        1,490         1,513        1,621        1,652        1,697        1,828        1,968        2,107            2,235                Tturauax/b.eufs 48-60 mol
Bulle 5 yaorc sed ave                                       4 672            4.691        4.709        4,676        4-716         4.780        5.132        5.234        5.487       53840         5_274            6.145                Tanrease do 3 ana et plus
8ub-totst                                       31,390           32,243       33,211       35,535       37,509       40,923        43,900       48,735       53,715       55,659       59,069           64,520                        Total partiel
Prolsut  8 nchas-                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rches Inclse dans le Projet 2/
Ierokr-e  brncduog hbrd                                       250                80          251          144          385          444          364          412          523           810          955              935               torchera - troupeau d' 4sveSg
ierekere - fottennsg hbrd                                      _                 -            -           315          315          451          632        1.037        1.624        2,256        2_56             2.256                Karekere - troupeau d'mbonnies
Total                                         250               80          251          459          708          895           996        1,449        2,147        3,066        3,211            3,191                              Tonal
Anada - fotteuilg hlrd                                         -                 79          220          515          705          940        1,221        1,641        2,057        2,327         2,327           2,327                Asada - troupeas d'et  ..cho
Dele - breedino hbrd                                           55                38          112           66          196          196          117          112          217          371           380             350                Dela - troupeas d%éllsega
Dels - fattsntg hberd                                          _                             285          570          855        1.140        1.425        1,615        1,900        1,900         1,900           1,900                D.l  - t.nupsan d'_bcotho
Total                                         55               38          397          636        1,051        1,336         1,542        1,727        2,117        2,271        2,280            2,250                              Total
Scb-totol                                         305              197          068        1,610        2_456         3.171        3,759        4.817        6.321        7,664        7,818            7.768                        Tntal Paotiel
Oth-r Ranches                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ruitos Races         s
IN8TA r.search statione                                       140               160          185          290          390          490          600          650           740          870          900              90Q                Sttions da nnuhenth  e. Id lK1IA
Missions                                                       65                70           80          120          150          180          215           230          260          290          300              300                mi.
Prtvate ranchns                                             ....fl9             250          260          270          280          290          310           330          34      0          350                     360 360Ronc llprtve
lob-total                                         455              480          525           680          820          960        1,125        1,210        1,340        1,510         1,550           1,560                        Total Prtiel
Total                                      j241Q            32,920       34,604       37,825       408785       45 054       48 784        54_762       61,376       64.833       68,437           73.848                           Total
1/  Soarce:  Asse  3  T-bi    16.                                                                                                                 1/  Sauras   Annee 3, Tsbleou 16.
2/  Sosoce:  macs  <  Tables a, 6   d 10                                                                                                          2/  Source:  A.n..e 5, Tbl... 2.
Februry 18, 1976                                                                                                                              le 18 feiter 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMRNT PROJECT                                                 PROJET DE DEVELOPPD<ENT DE L'ELE`VAGE EN ITUERI
Production of Beef Hides  nd Skeins                                                    Production de Boeuf, f de Cuiro et de PeuaM
Before Prolect/        ---------------------------------------------              --Y--r/An -ée- ---_____-___-_-__-___ -_-___-_-___-__-_-____
Avnt le Projet        1          2           3           4          5            6           7           8           9          10         11-20
A.  BEEF (Metric tons)                                                                                                                                                                                 A. BOEUF (Tonnes)
Grorn production fro- traditional
hbrd                    3,410             3,495      3,590       3,810       4,000       4,325       4,640       5,175       5,750       5,980       6,360       6,560             Production brute eu troupeau rradltlooi
Anios1n sold to ONDE ranches                                                                                                                                                                      d     -  -.d.. au  rachea de l'ONDE
HBofers                       -                   20        30           10        -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -                               cGisis.s
St-ae   2 yearn               -                   35        35          50          70         100         175         245         245         245         245         245                             EO-wllea  2 S
Stenra 3 years                -                  45         90         135         180         225         270         315         315         315         315         315                               llon 3 Oa
Sub-totsl                                   100        155         195         250         325         445         560         560         560         560         560                                 Total partial
Net production frio traditionsl
herd                    3,410             3,395      3,435       3,615       3,750       4,000       4,195       4,615       5,190       5,420       5,800       6,000             Production nette du sonte  trSLtoel
ONDE - Ranch Production                      50                 30        170         255        395         510         615         790       1,050       1,280       1,320       1,310              Production des ranches do PONmE
Other ranch production                       (70)               75         80         110         130        155         185         200         220         250          260         265             Production des autres ranchs
Total production (A)                      3,530              3,500     3,685       3.980       4.275       4.665       4.995      53605        6 460       6,950       7.380       7.575              Production totale (A)
(Availablî  for  aport te Rioehn.s)..        54               130        179         420         620         905       1,071       1,497       2,185       2,490       2,740       3,260              (Disponible pour l'exportation à  inshaa>
B. HIDES (Cattle)                                                                                                                                                                                      B.       Cuirs (de Bovins)
Production sf village e1aughîerhtr seu                                                                                                                                                                Production des abattoir1  villageois
fron village  laughtering                                 7,640      8,070       8,515       8,980       9,465      10,020      10,600      11,205      11,830      12,485      13,200               des  battagsn dans le  villgse
trom rural el1ughtnring                                   2,540      2,610       2,675       3,430       4,270       3,610       3,710       4,565       4,680       4,805       5,750               des abattagen dans lesc.     gn
frou dead anielan                                         4,500      5,020       5,620       6,060       6,120       7,380       8,465       9,785      10,605      11,730      12,730               dan aniasu   orts
SBb-total                                 14 680    15j700       16 810      186470      19.855      21.010      22.775      25.555      27.115      29.020      31.680                               Total partiel
Production of Bunia abattoir                                4,295      4,697       6,780       8,375      10,815      12,150      15,745      21,380      23,660      26,280      30,640              Production de l'abattoir de Bunis
Production et Iisangani abattoir                             2,690      2,770       2,850      2,930       3,120       3,245       3,375       3,510       3,650       3,790       3,950              Prodection de l'abattoir de Klaanuoi
Total                                 21 665    23.167      26 440      29.775      33,790      36 405      41.895      50 445      54 425      59.090       tb 270                              Total
C.  SKINS (Sheep and goste)                                                                                                                                                                            C.  PEAUX (de noutone et de ciêvres)
Production of Risangani abattoir                             6,760      7,030       7,310      7,600       7,910       8,220       8,550       8,890        9,250       9,620     10,000              Preduc  on de l'abattitr de Rlsang544
Net ef cendeosat io.s *nd freezing  .os.ses,                                                                                        ceednt pocten de cocfelatio. -..npriaes
Febr..ry 18, 1976                                                                                                                   le 18 février 1976



ZAIRI
ITURI LIVEOTOCII DOVELOPMENT POOJECT                                                                             PROJET DE IVEV2.PPRDMEI  DE L'ELEVAER EN ITOUR
Cttlle d,daod fteecion                                              rcti...                                                 ede la DemaA. de 16t.4l
(Nmmb.r of Arinsls)                                                                                                     (obedAla
lefre  romt     TSa  il      Y.ar 2       Yesr 3        Y-a 4        yem  5       le-  6       'rn7         Y.-a  8      Vear 9       Vear, 10       Yeara11î20
Avse   le  rojt    Amd         s-<  2        uÀ.3       do   .4. 8  noe6                          '                       A.- e 9             Ioe  1  Aee<.5 11-20
Ceneeftion Ce,tere                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cent.e. de .     ate
ITUN.!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IT0RI
- Ranches - haller                                                           250          375          i25          -            -             -            -            -                         -                  -         RnhS-l~s.
O teera 2  e5  00                                                            500          700        1.000        1,500        2.500        3,500         3,500        3,500        3,500              3.500                 -bou'iîle..  Sn.
St-ar  3 ye-c                                    -500                      1.000        1,500        2,000        2.500        5.000        3,500         3,500        3,500        3,500              3.500                 b- buill-ma 3 u
U tb- .i <th,ut l,snlm                                      5.000          5.100        5,200        5,505        5,410        5,520        5.685         5,055        6,030        6.210        6.400              6,590       .CàStce urbain.. <Renia .ncr
Rr.1ta  (ci thout mie,   isin,    R   ttaien.).           12.390          12.710       13,045       13,380       13,730       14.090       14.450       14,830       15,215        15.610       16.015            16,450       -ZOo.  i-aies (am.siasinn  et
St.tion  d.  'lf~encac..
-   Minetome                                    ~~~            ~~~         ~     ~ ~~~~~65  70  73  80  85          90           95           100          110          115          120                125         Missi..
- INERA station.                                               40            155          170          185          205          225          245           270          300          330          360                400       -Ssttilen  de i'INAu
- Mine. 91-oo- It.                                             5             455          460          465          470          475          480           485          490          495          500505                           deMi..   El-o. Vata.>
S.b-t.tal                                18.045         19.740        20,825      21,740        22,900       24.400       24,.410      28,540       29,145       29.760       30,395             31.050                 Tot.l partel1
H-ot-U aI.(ethoct Wt1..  i0...)                                  1.140           1,190        1,180        1,210        1,230        1,255        1,295        1,330        1,370        1,415         1.455             1.500         Rxut-D~i. (amn  la. ad-.  de 96.1.)
0an.l1~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~ ~510                                       520          530          540          550          565          580          600          620           635          655               675         8.0i
ugand.   -2,455                                                                    650          665          685          700          720          740          760          780           800        1,010             1.040         Oogmssda
N.rth-Kivn                                                       1.000          1.020         1.040        1.060        1.080        1.100        1.155        1.170        1.205         1.240        1.280             1.315          Nord-Dieu
Oob-tet.1                                 5,105           3.350        3.415        3,495        3,560        3,640        3,760        3,830        3,975        4.090         4.408l             4.550                Tteli partiel
La Taelh.o                                                       2.790           2,845        2,900        2,960        3.020        3.080        3.175        3,270        3,365         3.470        3,570              3.680         La SenhoPe
Ki..ngani                                                        2.610           2.498        2.770        2.850        2.930        3.120        3.245        3.375        3 510         3.650        3.795             3.950          Ketas -an
lob-total                                 5.400          5.535         5.670        5,810        5,950        6,200        6.420        6,645        6,875         7.120        7,365              7.630                 TtiBl partiel
B..nl.(Ab.tt.ir)                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Abattoir d. Busi.
- for local ...Oe.uptiie                                   3.200           3,295        3.395        3,500        3,600        3,710        3,860        4,015         4,173        4,340        4,315              4.695                pee  1. ee.etioe  loc.le
f-r empert te Kti.eh...                                       400A         1.000        1.300        3,8          4.775        7.105        8,290       11.730        17 205       19.5,20      2176               25.945             -poor le apett.ecnsEmba
S.b-t.t.1                                 3,408           4.295        4,695        6,780        8,375       10,815       12.150       15,745        21,380       23,860       26.280             30.640                 Tot&l partiel
Total                                32.150         32.920       34.601       37,825        40.785       45.055       48.785       54.760       61 375       64.930        68.440            73.850                     Tot4I
I/  Th,. befor. prometdiarciboîlio  i.e 4..ed ondata .ollestsd ires recods.   macet  a.ide, treusht pecnits .od alughiter.                                            1/  La diatributie  de 1s demade .cat le projet sat bda.C.c de-             ema  d.c1.~
T6e serai coosueption i. ertimted te lec1ude .11 yeng maie. chihO, Iom  th. herd composition data. mc neither marherd  -o  de.d.                                      de.  -arhée, des feuilles de rnime et dea .battage,  . LasoeetOmrrmac.pr
A.t dditioaI sîoans.  2 animal. par  -sth per cs1lletivity lana dadea tter   'cmeneg-cdi    f-nrsal  etc.)                                                            t-l.J-.-.    i   ..   a   ..     .1   -.iitd   ~p-
Thore la s realdoal  hlihO ...uld rot be. sc tnld fo- nd ta.. lsb.lnd  cgu.nda. lrce  -th . ...... not  tîjie. erd th. nientn' ..        nte..rviwtu   e   e..mia91   eo   e   on,_d   ae.eindutopa,a   ntn
il vs. fo..od th.1  -m  lattis i. aeld t0 Dogoda ..d anMe ges. te Ilîsde mu dueies,                                                                                  mort. ni  Demecaie . D  pins, daea snlma   par cee et par c,1enct    ent
pre-u  pou  les  tJSanao<mrae.Oneafe   i.).  M                          tèr-nhr   d'aehnao
qui os pouvistt etrO  ttrite,E   6 su.,  .tacalt inAroud   dun  la. _ta elie
D/ tleas PraJeti.Os:   ituri  -tub.n: y'ear 1-5. 2.0%; y-a  6-11/20. 3.0%                                                                                               'lg.rda", Selon de. Ortde, de  aalaî  et da.Itel..  da la elasio  dam  l  e..
ht-i  - .rual   y-a  1-11/20. 2.6%; et the cam  rate Sa popolation grosth                                                                     du  rjl   ubaisrI   ed   nOgnas       satevy                              ndt
M15i.si.$  yea  1-11/20. 6.0%                                                                                                                     prjt         bti       dt-d-  ...    y-it ..y.                              .t
INLERA ssia,year 1-11/20. 10%                                                                                                           2/    roetoeda la de.-cde:
Mie...  yea id.   - 11/20,  .07.0                                                                                                       -                 Ituri   popostie.. urbalma   ennd  1-5. 2.0%; sué, 6-11/20, 3.0%
ju.t-u5ld. Bs-U416, N.r-th Ko.e, L. Tshopo; y-a  1-5, 2.0%; yea, 6-11/20, 3.0%                                                                            lI     -pepulatlen r-rale    aoed1gOW ô                                     doalw t-  amammi.s
Blagn. Mn.i.  sear 1-5, 3.0%; ye.- 6-11/20. 4.0%                                                                                                                                    '~0sO.
8150..,  nS   -1/0-.%
t.tilon   de lIINERAsod  1-11/20. 10%.
mirs a..nnds. 1-11/20. 1.0%
ll,tU~1. Rs-0d6, NrI6Klv. l  Terbep.: A..&. 1-5,2.0%; ana. 8-11/20, 3.0%.
risegen  etBroi, aade1-5,3.01; mande 6-11/20,4.01.
Pabrusy 16. 1976                                                                                                                                                     ic 16 f,crter 1976



ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
Rable/Tableau 3
ZAIRE 
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                      PROJET DE DEVELOPFEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Officill Slgueoter Records In Raut-Zalre                                                    Releve' Officiel Des Abattages En leut-zaine
(Number of Nead)                                                                            (Nombre d Animaux)
- - - ---- -- --- -------- -geartAnnée ---- - --- -.- -------
1971        1972          1973         1974        1975
Consomxption Centers                                                                                                 Centres de Consossetion
A.  ITURI SUB-REGION                                                                                                 A.  SOUS-REGION DE L'ITURI-/
1.  Slaughter of aduit cattle                                                                                        1. Abattage de bovins adultes
Bunia abattoir                                 2,093         2,625        3,034       1,478                        Abattoir de B.nia
Irumu sons (in.l Gety)                         1,827         1,649        1,672         364                        Zone d'lrom   (Gety inclue)
Djugu zone                                       8E2           6F7          652         338                        zone de Djugu
abhagi soue                                      771           682          545         216                        Zone de Mahagi
Aru  uone                                        484           576          871         386                        Zone d'Aru
mbasea zone                                      -              34           20          27                        Zone de Ma-basa
Sub-total                          5,997         6,243        6,794       2,809                           Total pattiel
2.  Slaughter of calves                                   81            75           47          48                  2.  Abattages de veaun
Total A               3.957        6.078         6.378        8.841       2,807                           Total A
B.  HAUT-UELE SUB-REGION                                                                                             B.  SOUS-REGION OU HAJT-cELE
1.  Slaughter of adult cattle                                                                                        1.  Abattage de bovins adultes
Isiro                               984          659           355          128                                     Isiro
Wamba                                 18         -              40           22                                     Wambn
Watea                               310          388           197          182                                     Wates
Dugô                                  15           42            28           50                                    Dugu
Faradie                              46           39            62           92                                     Faradje
Rungu                               985          -                          -                                       Rungu
Slb-total         1,374        1,128           682          474                                      Total partiel
2.  Slaughter nf calves                      41           il             6            6                               2.   Abattage de veaux
Total B             1,415        1.139           688          480       n.a.                            Total B
C.  BAS-UELE SUB-REGION                                                                                              C.   SOUS-REGION DU BAS-UELE
Buta                                 20          240           156           47                                     Buta
Others                               24           43             4          -                                       Autres
Total C                44          283           160           47       n.a.                            Total C
D.  LA TSCHOFO SUB-REGION                                                                                            D.   SOUS-REGION DE LA TSCHOPO
Kis-ngani  adult cattle           4,449        2,527         1,670        2,359                                  Kisang-ni  bovins adultes
salves                   36         -              32           90                                              veaux
Sub-total         4,485        2,527         1,702        2,449       n.a.                            Total partiel
Bsasoo                               IO           54            93           52                                  Basoko
Isangi                              -            -             120           il                                  Isangi
Othere                                4           86           -            -                                   Autres
Sub-total            14          140           213           63       n.a.                            Total partiel
Total D            4.499        2,667         1 915        2 512       n.a.                            Total D
E.  TOTAL OFFICLL SLADonTER IN BAUT-ZAIRE 9.915          10 167         9.081        9.880                          E.   RELEVE TOTAL DES ABATTAGES OFFICIELS EN HAUT-ZAIRE
I]  In 1962, total alaughter in Ituri reached 20,345 head (adult cattle: 20,345; calves 68)             y   En 1962, le chiffre total des abattages officiels en Ituri était de
20,345 animaux (20,345 bovins adultes; 68 veaux)
Februory 18, 1976                                                                                       le 18 fev-ier 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVE2oiqeNlT PROJECT                                                                                                            PROJET DE DEVEOPPEMEIT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Offici.1 Ituri MYrket Records                                                                                                                   Relev6 officiel dee rrché. de 1'Itur
Averege veight of Anmla  Sold/                      Ae rage Pri-er  lsgs oiaal u     2old/
Tota Olejisr 0fAetale/lseésreTota d IoolaonPolid noye  de. Anl.,au  Verd..                          RmeYesPst kg de-.oso   ed..
Martet Location                                                          1971     19721974  19                           1973     197-      1975             1971     1972      1973     1974       1975          %Eplcerment de. Marchée
(Ja-Se(ept)                                                (J-Spt)                             (Z/kg)             (Jn-Rept)
A. CATTLE SOLD                                                                                                                                                                                                    A. BYbIL ViDU
1. Northern MerketU                                                                                                                                                                                               1. M        du 5ordu
Aru (Nymb.-ere)                                                       143                                                       ( 240)
K-uchu                                                                109                                                                                                                                        Xauchu
Mont - RH.                                                             70                                                                                                                                        lnet hMe
Ape                                                                    63                                                                                                                                        Apa
Adrega                                                                539                                                                                                                                        Adreega
M.do                                                                   -                                                                                                                                         M do
Sob-total                                     528               924                                      245               ( 240)/                              .14               C .18)9                        Total Partiel
2. Central Merkets                                                                                                                                                                                                Z  M-ecbe  du Cet..
Djogo                                               115                -                                       230                                                    .20                                      - Djuio
Djalasig.                                            16                -                                       230                                                    .16                                      ---      p
Luga                                                                   18                                                         315                                                     .18                    DL.g
Mont-Rocs                                                              60                                                                                                                                        Ibat-Ro.
85t.h.p.                                                              200                                                                                                                                        Mythap_
Sob-total                                     131               278                                      230              C 315)/                                .20              ( lô)9/                       Total p.rtiel
3.  Sothern Marketz                                                                                                                                                                                               3. Nareha  de Sud
B000i1                                    448       836    1,201      183                             240      305      260       235                        .12      .18       .17       .20                   Bgi.
Mideoge                                   561      797       546      390                            240       280      280       275                        .12      .12       .17       .22                    Nldef
Msdiro                                    251       546      51s      150                             300      265      300       310                        .10       14       .14       .16                    Hzdro
Kadan-a                                   372       622      419      268                             265      270      282       280                        .10      .13       .16       .21                    Kada,.-
bogoro                                    623      535       696      534                             260      250      280       250                        .095     .12       .15       .20                    BSogor
Gety                                      590      890       842      602                             250      240      275       225                        .11      .15       .17        19                    Cety
Mitego                                    577       906      900      542                             290      270      280       280                        .095     .10       .17       .17                    Miteso
noga                                       -        69       629      372                              _       285      265       265                         -       .14      .17        .21 
S04-tot1                 3,645    3.622   5.201    5i748    3.041                     345      260      270      275        260              .75      .10       .14      .16       .20                        Total partiel
TOtal                    (3.645)  (3,622)~' 5,860  (5.748)  4.242                    ( 345)   ( 260)     270    ( 275)    ( 260)8/            .75)   (  10)      .14     (.i6)    (.19)!/                      Total
B.  CATTLE UISOLD                                            1 354      767      518
C. TOTAL NUMBER OF CATTLE RECODED       (3,645)  (3,622)   7,214  ()6  15)   4,760
C.  I(BU TO7TA DAN4'       CIsRC
y   No records for the Koruno and Atchiiea mrket.                                                                                                       Il ovoîste aocun do,sler pour les  -hroés. de Koo,sa  et d'At.hi.l.
9/ The brackets indicate that the-e figurea are inco-plete.                                                                                          2   Lee p-rentis ee  indiquent que .e. t0t... ne soet que .. rttels, eurnee                           rM
3/ Mest fipre. for the northert aackete vere est re.eoded in Buoi headquarters, they vere collected by                                               L/ la plupart de. dsoné.  de. rtrche  du Nord -e figo-eat pa           e dans tan dossiers du
thi  si..os at the veteri.dry seCtor levai.                                                                                                          aibs  do se-i.. vét61ri-ir.e sou. -rfgioeal à Buo a ellei   furent raesenilre par la 
~Tis.es avoage. nIe baeed eese  f tise mrkr  recorde .eîy.                                                                                             eJeeton .e nivsa  dea settrere vétdrieiree.                                                       i
*4   Cee esyeenes est *J calcul~ee  N partir dés données inrluee  dn  les do.siers de
quslquee arciséh se.les ert.
Febre-ry 18, 1976                                                                                                                                   1. 18 ftati-a  1976



AEXANxE 2
TableITableau 5
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                            PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Permit Tiansit Records                                                              Relevés des Feuilles de Route
(Number of Head)                                                                    (Nombre d'Animaux)
1973        1974            1975
(Jan'. - Sept.)
From Northern Markets to:                                                                  Des Marchés du Nord a destination de-
Aba                                                                 59                  Aba
Faradje                                                              3                  Faradje
Dungu                                                               39                  Dungu
Watsa                                                              313                  Watsa
Mungbwere                                                           17                  Mungbwere
Isiro                                                              269                  Isiro
Buta                                                               330                  Buta
Wamba                                                               69                  Wamba
Bunia                                                              4o3                  Bunia
Irumu                                                               32                  Irumu
Kisangani                                                            2                  Kisangani
Isangi                                                              17                  Isangi
Sub-total                                                  1,553                        Total Partiel
From Central Markets to:                                                                   Des marchés du Centre a destination de:
Kisangani                                                          278                  Kisangani
Bunia                                                               18                  Bunia
Sub-total                                                    29                         Total Partiel
From Southern Markets to:                                                                  Des marchés du Sud à destination de:
Isiro                                                                9                  Isiro
Kisangani                                                       1,192                   Kisangani
Bunia                                                              952                  Bunia
Beni (Kivu)                                                       6o5                   Béni (Kivu)
Sub-total                                                  2,758                        Total Partiel
Total                                                                                      Total
Haut-Uéle                                         1,232          1,116                  Haut-Uélé
Bunia                                                            1,373                  Bunia
Beni (Kivu)                                         869            605                  Béni (Kivu)
Kisangani                                         5,388          1,472                  Kisangani
Others                                                2             41                  Autres
TOTAL                          (57,394)        91U         4,607                        TOTAL
f   Only figure available.                                                                         f   Seul chiffre disponible.
No available figure for Bunia.                                                                f   Aucun chiffre disponible pour Runia.
February 18, 1976                                                                                 le 18 février 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCt DEVELOPMEHT PROJECT                                               PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Meat Retail Prices                                                                   Prix de Détail de la Viande
(Z/kg)                                                                                    (Z/kg)
BUNIA                    KISANGANI                   ISIRO
1973     1974     1975      1973     1974      1975     1973      1974     1975
MDDERN BUTCHER SHOPS                                                                                                            BOUCHERIES MODERNES
Beef                                                                                                                            Boeuf
Roast                            1.40       .90     1.40      1.30     1.60      1.60     1.60     1.80      1.86               Rati/entrecetes
Fillet                           1.40       .90     1.40     1.50      1.80     1.80      1.60     1.80      2.10               Filet
Chopped meat                     1.40      1.40     1.40     1.30      1.40     n.a.      1.80     1.80      1.90               Viande hbchée
Stewing Steak/chuck/flank        1.00      1.00     1.00       .90     1.20     1.20       .60      .90      1.30               Carbonade sans os
Meat with bone                     .60      .60     n.a.       .55      .90      n.a.                        1.00               Viande avec os
Liver, lunge, heart, kidneys       .60      .60      .60       .70     1.20      1.20                        1.70               Foie, poumons, coeur, rognons
Tongue                             .85      .85      .85       .70     1.20      1.20                        1.80               Langue
Boiled meat                       .60       .60      .80                        n.a.                          .90               Viande bouillie
Scraps                            .20       .20                .30      .30     n.a.       .20       .30     n.a.               Déchets
Bones                             .10       .10      .30       .12      .15       .12                         .40               Os
Pork
Roast                              .70      .70     1.40      n.a.     n.a.      1.50     1.40      1.60     2.20            Porc
Chopa                             .55       .70     1.40     n.a.      n.a.      1.30     1.30     1.50      2.00               W 8lettes
Chopped meat (beef/pork)          .15       .80     1.40     n.a.      n.a.      1.50                                           Viande hacheé (boeuf/porc)
HARKETS                                                                                                                        MARCHES
Beef                                                                                                                            Boeuf
Meat with bone                   n.a.      n.a.      .70      n.a.    n.a.        n.a               n.a.       n.a.             Viande avec os
Heat vithout bone                  .50      .65      .50       "        t'          "               ,i          et              Viande sans os
Roast                              .60      .65     n.a.       t,        t         u                 t,                         R2ti
Fillet                            .70       .70      .60       "           "                         '                          j' Filet
Tripes                             .20      .20      .25                 t         "                 't        ,,               Tripes
Liver, tongue                     n.a.     n. a      .50                 t/                                     t               Foie, langue
Head vith tongue (per unit)        '         "      1.50       "                                     s                          Tete avec langue (la pièce)
Head vithout tongue (,ker unit)   It l               .80                                             ,Tête sans langue (la pièce)
Legs (per unit)                                      .10                                                                        r Pattes (la jilice)
Pork                                                                                                                            Porc
Roast                            n.a.      n.a.      .50                                                                        R6ti
Meast with bone                    .32      .32       .40                                                                       Viande avec os
Feet                             n.a.      n.a.      .35                                                                        Pieds
Goat and mutton                                                                                                                 Chèvre et mouton
Meat with bone                     .35      .35     n.a.                                    .90     1.20     n.a.               Viande avec os
February 18, 1976                                                                                              le 18 février 1976



CAIRY
!TRRI LIVE5TOCt DR-ELOPOMRT PROJECT                                                               POJ2T DE DRVRLOPPEM153T DE L LELRVAGE Ri ITR
Mkriete, Stock raura ad Rrall Slaughterhouses                                                         Mrchée  Piste   Bétail. Touries Rurales
nve_t_i_nt______                                                                                  Couat d'Oeaeetiseeeesi
(ZAIRC) (ZAIRE)
Oeit       Unft Co-t           Oe-e lfaaeér E               Tsr 2/Aente 2                 Oser 3/Acate 3       _             Tatal                Parelor tachacRE Catece                    Cetsorls d'Davsîiaeseeî
Raveelema  Ite=                                  Esie'  Coo t(Jultaire   DeEt/OsiEl    Casle/Coole   Ui/nii       ttiJF7 oet-/Couîe   EUnit/Unit    Eaecs/iotai       Unit/Unit   CosîEaote                    Derises
Z                               E                             z                             z                          z    USB  q.    Z           %
A.  Markete                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A.  Merase
'alding gsos.d.  cocelracrlc                       kls           565              -            -               4.8           2,710            4.6         2,500              9.4      5,310    6,107      3,549     67                        Cae-troori-a  d'eetla
Hlading groacds repaire                            las            185             .6         l00                .4               75            .8           150              1.8        335       385       226    67                         R;paretioe desaclas
C ttre rece  1te-tracliae                         e               15              -            -              60               900           60             900            120        1,800    2,070        -       -                         Ca.stractise de cauletre  d'a-p^r-ton
C  ttle rare repsirt                               e                S             45          225             30                150          60             300            135          675       776       _ -    k,epreltiea de coaloir
Nee li-ssightl assis                               oal.i       3,040               S        3,6800             5            11400            -                                       13,200    17,48R    02,530     92                        Beoe   sle>ihî
Live.eight    ceaaeralh                                          575               3        1, 725             2             11050            4           2,300              9        0,170     5,951    3,590      64                        s       I-arettee de hasooles i SeraIt
Sheltere coastrastIoa                              oeit            7,                          -               R                600           8             600             16        1,200    1,380        -       -                         Ciaatesîti-e d'ebrîs
Eheltererepetre                                    oeil            15              6           90              4                60            R             120             18          270       310       -       _                        Reparalea d'abrîs
alter tr-aghs                                      nait            75              3          225              6                450           4              900            13        1,575    1,811         -       -                        A    aretre
SRb-tal1                                                                6,175             -             17,495                        7,870                      31,540   36,270   19,595    62                                 Tetel pur"iel
ùj  Stock Route                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R   Piste i Beteil
light-kra1e (perl.eeer feers)                      io            565              -                                                           4           2,260              4        2,260    2,600      1,510    61                         R-r1a  de  ailtcttae pdrtphértqae5
Eer.ds,s  shde                                     aail            75                                                                        10              500            10          750       663       -       -                         Abtie pese les  -uaiers
tater traoghe                                                      75             _                                                          10              750            10          750        8663      -      -                         Abrecraîre
Bridge repaire                                                16,200                                                                          2          32,400              2       32,400   37,260   17,400    54                           Rsparaclue de puets
9flerllaaeaue spedes, huchets, seauI
eter p,sp, etc                                                                                                                 700                         700      805        365    54                        Di-er           2 :xaîrt
S.b-t.tel                                                                                                                            36.860                      36.860   42.391   19.275    52                                Tala partiel
C     R orul  .la.ghîerht see                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ca  Tasriee RBucles
BRildieeg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bâtineeta
Recerel repeirs                                 oeIt           970                                           20           19,400            20         19,400             40       38,860    44,620                                           Riparatians géedralea
Ride shed,frase aad stars                        sait          590                                           20           11,800            20         11,800             40       23,600   27,140                                            Begar * peaux, red-es et nagasin
S.b-tetsl - bhildiege                                                                                    31.200                       31.200                      62.400   71.760   13.990    22                                Ttala  partiel - Elti-sect.
EgRip-eet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Metlriel
HBista                                           oeit            90                                          10              900            10             900            20        1,800    2,070                                            Peins
Cattig l8ale, veadea                           oeil            90                                           20            1,800            20          1,800             40        3,600    4,140                                             Uillo
Gchrels                                                           8                                          10                80           10             80             20          160        184                                          Crappie
îkteetag kniv--                                                  6                                           20              120            20            120             40          240       276                                           Co,te  e de deptilage
Stak khiees                                                      8                                           20              160            20            160             40          320       368                                           Coatee  a viinde
Perteble offal bic                              ulit            35                                           20              700            20             700            40        1,400    1,610                                            Beau 6
BRaD I  lter taek (200 galleas)                 csit           520                                           15            7,800            15          7,800             30       15,600   17,940                                            Pst t r       r   d4sac (200 gale.)
Nie..  (hase, peil, heeke, po--ibly ceeu                                                                                                                                                                                                     Divepe/tuy .s. *. efu,  tracheta
ester pa.-, sIc)                uit            350                                          20             7,000           20          7,000             40       14,000   16,100                                              seetuelisasst Oe petito PeaPe
S.b-tltal - eqip-ent                                                                                     18,680                       18,680                      37,360   42.964   35,290         94                           Tetau    p, ltifi  -tlri1
SOb-toaiti                                                                                                         49.l8                        49.880                      249h    1Io1J2    49.280        49                             Talai pertlal - Tuerlis
Total baut caste                                                                   6 173                           67375                        94 610                     168 160  193.385   880150         52                            Coutl tOt.u- de bules
Juac  23, 1976                                                                                                                                                        le 25 jait 1976



ZAÏRE
ITIJR   LIVESTOCE DEVREOPENDT PROJECT                                                        MOJET 0  E BVELnPPEMEIT liE t ELEVAGIE EN s-TiRi
Mark.tc. Stock Route                                                                          Marhée. Piste k Béitail
Ocrtîe dti   o  lev.....                                                           CoÎt. et Revenus dc  .. pctior,- tn
A-utierreje]t           i           2           3           4           5           i           7          B           -9          10             11-20
A.   MARKETS                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.   Marches
Th-Fu,ip5i ci ..ctle                           6,410             11,330      12.115      13,820      15,870      18,850      21,632      26,055    26,820        54,160      37,525       41,785                   N-cbre d'animax .   ve4t
1.  OPERATING EXPENSES                                                                                                                                                                                             1.  tORTS DE PONCTIONNEI6II
Maistentec  ci phy$iosl fisi1itile2'         -                              120         soi       1,580       1,580       2,200       2,200      2,200        2.200        2,200        3.158                       nrte  de. laalate
Staff: iteld tmii, percenage ai
vet. Oed clati                               8.7         0.7         0.7         0,7         R 7         0.9         1.5        1.5          1.0         1.5           1.7                    Peene;Preta spercannl véttérinar
Ouste                                ~~~~       ~~~~~~~938  1,013  1,088  1,156     1,188       1,525       2,543      2,543        2,543       2,243        o,gy5                                    ent,                       -u  i. terrin
Rsadqsartcr  craitf: ..sai                25                             95o         95      --e            130         170         170        170          170         170          190                           Pereenl du  08e ecse-s...tsnaî
Total oP.rtîtg esPar,,                                        1,033       1,228       1,683       2 886       2,898       3,895       4,913      4,915        4,912       4,913        8.215                       CeSte ici-s de faestRann-ept
Replsoser t   ,ole5'--f                                                                                       - --3 -2800                                                 9,888                                     eo0sln   de.- erle
Totol opera. iicgepeseee                                   1,033       1,228       1,883       3,866       2,898       3,805       4,913      4 913        8,713      14.793        6.215                           CoUe ats,tct   de   . teciceecsct
II.  OPERATINU REVENcUES                                                                                                                                                                                           Rl.  REVENUS DE BOBCGTIOB8UMENT
Narket fas 18 48k V                                           4,532       4.846       5.528       6.348       7 940       8,652      10,422    1072          13.664      15.010        16.714                      Radavauc  de earrhéa  '40 h
II.  MAROINE  REVENUES OVER OPERATIO8G C007S                           581      3.618       3.845       3  8        4,642       4,757       5.509      5.815        4.95,          21-9      10.499                III.  ISARDE BENEFECIÂORE. REVENUS EXGEDBKI COUTS BE
R.  -StockRlisai                                                                                                                                                                                                  B.  Plete à 8BétaiNlTNODSB
Th-ughpt ai tarttle - Borts Abetteir              400               700         730       1,850       2,600       3,850       4,550       6,700      9,900       11,300       12,800       05,000                Nonbre d'ssiazea  - pou  B'sbattctr de Ba.in
orhaca                                     310          470        580          750       1,000       1,375       1,750      1,750        1,750       1,750        1.750                                     Autres
TataS                                    1.010        1.220      2L430       3.350        4.858       5.925       8.450    11.650        13250       14.550       16.750                                     Total
I.  OPERATINO C0STS - MAINTENANOCE OF       I/                                                                                                                                                                      .  COUTS BE PONCTIONNOENET (ENTETIEN DES
PHYSOICAI PACELITIES INOCUINDRG LABOE    -                                            So          900       1,000       0,800       0,300      2,8000       2,800       2,800        3,000                         "125ÂlN           aenre      oeMsccsl
Il. 00'ERATIBG REVENUSR (d 2.65                   -1,080                                               2,178       3,153       3,851       5,493      7.573        8,613        9,458       10,890                 il.  RLVBERU DE PONOTIORNISENT      Z 85
III. LARCIN.REVENUES  OVER OPEB,TIN0 COlTS         -                                          08        1.7          1,353       2,051       2.993     4.713         5.13        .6J58        7.890                III.  MARGCE BENEPOCDAIRE. REVEND  EXCEDANT 00U35 DE
VOBCTIONNENRII
Th. sh-e si ccttie goisg thesagh th.  -akete  -sld iacrs... itou lacs th.. 507, te 75%..1   Le sank- d'anlia    an couic sa  las  erhée . cccr  do noie, le 507. kà 75%.
5/2% ccd 5% ai oapicaliaed value sf fisllitice ie Teors ifla1 oceerrcig                 7%. - y-s  6-lt, 10%. thoraaftcr.      ~      /2% et 5% de la vaer1-         uctd  dcc inctall.tia suceurs..     d- aisée  colonet la pariade de catrctiac;
3J  Nîccic  ectieie,                                                                                                                     77. dca caéde  6 à il, 107. d-a  le n.e.ovste
4J   ep1acees  ai  Ild ..ceI.., 5 i- y-ar  9-10 (25% PaYable an aider, 75% ar dalivary) 3 .s ycor- 13-14, 4 le Tests 17-18,  Vj  Dtiasstiac a. 1. ealr
y    f.. ir  s  40k is adeqoete    ec ...satec  auffîrRent caasekt th.a proceet Oas c  Z 1 uiI1 4e _ilotsi-d cuill rht              4/  lr_ovllcj,ct dccaccns  acls  5...ooo... 0--10 (25% payable à la  -ascde, 75%
aatael thicoghpat ie eeaertaised (eAcces 2, psrs 40).                                                                                  i     1-slc ...aoo  5 ao   oés13-14, 4 ... soc/es. 17-18.
L. ta rdeuasa da 40t ast adiquata pue  la praduetias de  uie e   ceetea, est, la piéacie redevance dc Z 1                            i
car  ,niteo  jucqu'i ce que l'actuel rcnlnnnt est accor  <Veir A-cn   2, pers 40).
6 3% si ..pitsltetd veu    f8Ocilti.  Oc te-  5- 8% le y-a  11-2804   3% d  14 valant acîtaicia6  dcc lrilcic,Olcd    , 0% sOi astét  11-20
July tg  1971                                                                                                                          la 19 juiîlat 1976



ZAIRE
ITUEI LIVESTOCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                  PROJET DE DEVILOPPEMENT DE L' ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Rural Sluaghterhou.er                                                                       Tuerins Rurales
Opnratig Coute sud Ravacues                                                          Calte et Reveaue de Pasctiarnsent
(2,000)                                                                                      (Z' DM0)
Baoue Prolota  YTor 1    Year 2          Yeur 3      Year 4      Ye-         YeTu  6     YPor 7      YTar 8      Ye-r 9       Yeur 10    Years 11-20
Avant la Projet Aneée 1   Anoée 2    Année 3    ADoée 4    Année S    Andée 6    Annee 7    A e 8    Doée 9    Année 10   AnAnas 11-20
Throughput-                                                                                                                                                                                                     AbattesR'-
Crttle                                                7,480         7,640      8,070       8,515        8,980       9,465      10,020      10,600      11,205      11,830       12,485       13 200              Bavies
Pigs sed guatl                                        2,000         2,050      2,105        2,160       2,215       2,275       2,330       2,395       2,455       2,520        2,585        2,650              Pares et chèer-
-------------------------------------------------Ttalt        nt/Montut total1----------------------------------------------________
(Z)
1.  OPEATINC COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                              I.  COETS DE FONCTIONNPMENT
Maieleant   if physical fatilitrea                  100            300       300          300        750          750         750         750         750         750         750           750                  intret-es daas staîtanions
Labac  eun-yeart                                     10 5           il         15          16          17          18          19          20          21          23          24            25                  Mais d'oeuvre: Rel-sauée
Cnet (Il)                                                6,337      8,625       9,200       9,775      10,350      10,925      11,500      12,075      13,225      13,800        14,375                                   Cout (Z)
Pethoase af hidea: enub-rl                          -               -     15,700      16,810      18,470      19,855      21,010      22,775      23,555      27,015       29,020        31,680                  Achat dt  pu   n.obre
Coat @ Z2.25                   -               -     355325       37,823     41,558      44,674       47,273      51,244      57,499      61,008      65,295        71,280                                    Cont @2,25 sI-es
Total operating tests                    5 000         6,637    44,250       47,323       52,083      55,774      58,948      63,494      70,324      74 983      79,845        86,405                     Ctit de fintriooaeseît total
Il.  OPERATING REVERUES                                                                                                                                                                                        IE.  REVENUS DE FNCTIONNEPIENT
SIaughtot tons: tutt,l  @ Zl.00                      a          7,640    80070          8,515       8,980       9,465      10,020      10,600      11,205      11,830      12,485        13,200                  Tuas d'sbsttag: bovins  1, 00 cate
s-ali  tieal @ Z. 75                           1,537      1,580       1,620       1,660       1,706       1,747       1,796       1,841       1,890        1,939         1,990                                    petits ania      0,75  aRsre
Sob-total                                     9,177      9,659      10,135      10,640      11,171      11,767      12,396       13,5046    13,720      14,424         15.190                                Tat.1 paritel
Nid, sales    Z3. 15                                               -      49,455      52,952       58,181      62,543     66,182       71,744      80,498      85,412      91,413        99,392                  Vennte de peaux    3,15 estres
Tnte1 oper-ine  Revenuet              (5,000)          9,177    59,105       63,087      68,821      73,714      77,949     84,140      99, ,        9132    105.837          114.982                     Reve  do fonctinneet teteax
III. MARGIE  REVPENES OVER OPERATINC COSTS                               2_540    14.855       15,764      16,738      17.940  1        9        01 25220              24.149    25 992           28 577        III  MARGE IZ F l CIA      DIFFERENCE EN-RE COJTS ET REVENUS
IV.             DF, FOPNCTIONENMENT
1/  Caltuied an 100% Itore-uebattconption; 207. iu yeur 1 t  407 io yea-- 11-20 af  .t.r.-.ea                   p tosupio.               a               bu   de 100   de l; do  20%
Pig and gRut co             -Ioaption vould inceesaet the suce eut, ut population gruwth tata   2.6°Z p.u                            à lu nns  1 à 407, a       n         -20 dot  atttgna u000e        e     uniu,. ao
de por.-  et d,Jnbilro  auuat-lttut  ounoe .un  qu-  i popolutînt.: 2,6% ps..
2/   See A-te 2, Table 1 (B)                                                                                                          V! Voir Anenex  2, Tableau 1 (B)
Juan 28, 1976                                                                                                                        le 20 j.ui  1976                                                                                                                       a



ANNEX 3
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Husbandry in the Traditional Sector in Ituri
A. General
1.        The sub-region of Ituri Kibali in Haut-Zaire region is situated
in the north east corner of Zaire bordering Sudan and Uganda. The sub-
region (which has its administrative headquarters in Bunia) covers
62,000 km2 and is divided into five administrative zones; Irumu, Djugu,
Mahagi, Aru and Mambasa. The zones are divided into sectors and then into
collectivities. Bunia is 700 km from regional headquarters at Kisangani and
290 km from the furthest northern zone headquarters of Aru.
2.        The western Mambasa zone of the sub-region is at an altitude of
600 - 800 metres and is covered by tropical rainforest. East of the Mambasa
zone the land rises and forest gives way to savannah, covering hills, plateau
and in places mountainous country until the Lake Mobutu fault is reached
where the land falls away sharply to Lake Mobutu. The southern zone, Irumu,
averages 1,000 m in altitude; the northern zone Aru 1,200 m and the central
areas Djugu and Mahagi between 1,500 and 1,700 m. The highest points are
Adjo 2,425 m and Aboro 2,456 m, the lowest Mahagi-Port on Lake Mobutu at
617 m. The forested Mambasa zone has few livestock (mainly poultry 3,200
goats and 200 pigs) and the Government has not included it in the project
area so that the following description of Ituri refers to the other four
zones (29,000 km2) which cover the project area.
Climate
3.        The climate is affected by altitude and average rainfall ranges
from 1,000 to 1,600 mm. Most of the area receives about 1,200 to 1,300 m.
Ituri has two rainy seasons although in many areas some rain falls even
in the dry months. The driest months occur from mid Ncvember to end of
February or mid March followed by rains from March to May and a short drier
spell in June and July. Differences between the rainy and dry seasons are
not always marked in Irumu and Djugu, particularly the latter.  The long
dry season of four months becomes distinct further north in Mahagi and Aru
as temperature in the second half of this season, especially in Aru, is
affected by hot dry winds coming from Sudan. (rainfall and temperature
data is shown in Tables 1 and 2).
Vegetation
4.        The forest belt penetrates the western boundaries of the three
southern zones. Small forested areas exist within zones and along rivers
and streams. The area covered by such forest requires definition in view



ANNEX 3
Page 2
of the increase in subsistence cultivation that has taken place over the
last fifteen years. The savannah area which occupies some 20 to 25,000
sq km can be divided into three main types. Medium altitude savannah,
high altitude savannah and lake shore bushland, each of which has a
number of distinct subtypes of land use importance. Common grassland
genera include Hyparrhenia, Panicum, Themeda, Beckeropsis and Pennisetum.
The area is generally well watered with a good network of perennial rivers,
streams and springs.
Population
5.        In 1951 the population was estimated to be over 580,000 and in
1974 reached 1,087,000, a growth rate of over 3% per annum. Overall popula-
tion density is 40/km2 but in certain areas it reaches 119 people/km2 making
Ituri one of the most densely populated parts of Zaire. Seven principal
tribes live in the sub-region with different ethnic and geographical origins.
They obtain most of their subsistence requirements from crops although three
of the four major groups have appreciable numbers of livestock. 170,000
families are estimated to subsist purely on crops and there are about 20,000
livestock owners of whom 5,000 obtain most of their subsistence from stock.
1970 population figures, domicile and main characteristics of these tribal
groups can be summarized as follows:
Banyari          36,000 people         Irumu.  Originally from Uganda.
Mainly cultivators.
Wallendu        230,000                 Irumu and Djugu.  Cultivators.
Irumu and a small group in
Djugu. Cultivators. Speak
Wallendu.
Mabendi            N/A.
Bahema          200,000                Pastoralists originally from
Southern Ethiopia and dispersed
in Mahagi, Djugu, and Irumu
zones.  Some groups from Southern
Irumu, especially in the Boga
region do not practice cropping.
Ndo or Okebo    22,000                 Mainly ironsmiths from northwest
Uganda who have settled in parts
of Aru and Djugu.
Alur            156,000                A population of mixed crop and
livestock farmers belonging to
several independent clans of
Nilotic origin which have
occupied much of Mahagi.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Lugware        184,000 people          Livestock people who have settled
on Aru and in neighboring Uganda.
Divided into 6 main clans.
6.        The distribution of population and stock by zones is as follows
(Table 3 gives further characteristics of land use in the zones):
km2      Population    Cattle    Goats    Sheep    Pigs
('000)      (O'OOO)   ('000)   ('000)   (0'000)
Irumu       7,977           197           106       44        7         10
Djugu       9,223           386            30       55       12         19
Mahagi       5,164          305            39       52        7          8
Aru         6,874           201           112      154       48          -
29,238        1,089           287       305      74         37
Production
7.        The main economic activities in Ituri are agriculture, fishing,
hunting and mining. Present production and income levels are estimated to
be lower than those obtained in 1960. Although important, hunting is likely
to decline as population and settlement increases. Expansion of mining must
rely mainly on new discoveries. Further development in Ituri will largely
depend on expanding agriculture and fishing activities.
Agriculture
8.        Agriculture in the region can be divided into the large farm
and the traditional farming sectors. Information on the present division
of land between these two sectors and their contribution to the economy of
Ituri is unreliable.
9.        Before Independence large farms contributed most to the monetary
sector in agriculture. They are presently owned by private individuals,
parastatal bodies like Kilomines, missions and government. Production on
these farms has dropped sharply since Independence and now most of them
are producing little or are unoccupied. Before Independence over 60,000
cattle were raised on large farms including over 6,000 dairy cows which
kept the Bunia Abattoir and a creamery at Libi in operation. Today only
about 10,000 head of cattle remain in this sector of which very few are
dairy animals. The principal cash crop grown is coffee.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       The Government is making efforts to improve productivity on its
own farms, particularly at the large (2,700 head) Nioka research station
with German Technical assistance. The Ituri Project is expected to improve
livestock productivity on the parastatal ranches. Some individual Zairian
farmers are attempting to increase production but lack suitable credit and
management advice. Although not a specific original objective of the
project, it should help Government develop a suitable policy for livestock
development of these individual farms, encouraging where possible the flow
of credit to them through the private banking sector. Where it is evident
that large farms cannot be developed by the present owners Government should
consider associating them in some productive manner with the traditional
sector or developing them through the parastatal ranching organization ONDE.
11.       The traditional farming sector is mainly based on crops cultivated
by about 170,000 families. The 1974 Ituri Agricultural Annual report
estimated that over 270,000 ha were cultivated, the major crops being beans
(84,000 ha) maize (68,000 ha) cassava (58,000 ha) sweet potatoes (27,000 ha)
and groundnuts (17,500 ha). The principal cash crops are Arabica coffee
(7,000 ha) and cotton (2,600 ha) while other secondary crops include rice,
Robusta coffee, tea and quinine. Local traders transport food and vegetables
to urban markets outside Ituri depending on road conditions and market demand.
Marketing of coffee and cotton through the state organizations has proved
difficult and some farmers complain that they have not been able to sell
their produce during recent years.
12.       Cattle (287,000 head); Goats (305,000), Sheep (74,000), Pigs
(37,000) and a large number of poultry constitute the livestock population.
The Bahema, Lugware and Alur are the main stockowners while small stock,
particularly pigs and poultry, are becoming increasingly important for
small farmers without cattle.  Presently few agriculture inputs are being
used due to an inefficient distribution system, general lack of supplies
in Zaire and poor produce marketing providing no incentive for farmers to
purchase farm inputs.  Present statistics indicate that the average area
cultivated per family varies from 1.1 ha in Irumu to 2.1 ha in Aru while
the average cattle holding per livestock owner varies from 11 cattle in
Djugu to 29 in Irumu (average 15 head) - Table 3. Most crop farmers are
very poor, living at the subsistence level and selling relatively little
produce for cash. At appraisal the average cash income from cattle sales
for a farmer with 12 cattle was about Z 35 (US$40) assuming a price of
20 k per kg liveweight (representing about 60% of the value of offtake
from this herd). Following devaluation if the recently introduced maxi-
mum prices of 54 and 62 k per kg for second and third categories became
the norm then the average cash income would rise to Z 97.2 (US$107)
(Table 4).
13.       Overall, adequate land is available in the sub-region to increase
cultivation and livestock numbers. However, in certain areas, particularly
in Djugu, local over population is occurring thus preventing the continuation
of the bush fallow system and reducing grazing areas.  Some farmers are now



ANNEX 3
Page 5
unable to get sufficient land for cultivation in their own localities so
that serious conflicts of interest are arising between cultivators and
livestock owners in such areas, the latter complaining that they are
losing their grazing and the former complaining of trepass on their
cultivation.
14.       The poor marketing system and roads are probably the most
immediate obstacle to increased output. However in some areas further
expansion of agriculture will increasingly depend on more intensive
farming systems involving the provision of inputs to improve crop and
livestock productivity. Tribal affiliations and social needs limit, at
least initially, the mobility of the population in its search for new
cultivation land. The problems involved will have to be tackled soon
considering the present income levels and the fact that the human popula-
tion is likely to reach 2 million in 20 years. The Government wishes to
improve the situation but presently funds are insufficient to develop
the necessary extension and marketing services.
Administration Structure and Local Government Financial Control
15.       The sub-region is administered by the Sub-Regional Commissioner
head quartered in Bunia. Zone Commissioners are responsible for the five
zones under whom are appointed the chiefs of collectivities. Departmental
heads report to the Sub-Regional Commissioner on policy matters affecting
Ituri, while they receive technical direction from their regional and
departmental superiors.
16.       Budgeting and financial control of sub-regional departments such
as Veterinary is done through the Sub-Regional Commissioners office. Some
vehicles and gasoline are allocated by a general supply office in Kinshasa.
A few Veterinary items are allocated directly by veterinary headquarters
in Kinshasa.  The financial year runs from March to February.  Departments
prepare estimates in July, which are then discussed by the sub-regional
authority (Government appointed) and submitted to the Department of Finance
in Kinshasa at the end of September. Estimates, which are not reviewed by
regional departmental heads, are considered mainly in the light of expendi-
ture guidelines received from Kinshasa. The sub-regional budget is then
considered by the National Council legislature in Kinshasa (on which there
are 10 deputies from Ituri in a council of over 200 deputies); staff numbers
are seldom altered but changes in other items sometimes occur. Sub-regions
are notified of approvals in February. Accountants in sub-regions and
zones pay salaries on the basis of lists prepared in Kinshasa from returns
originally sent from the sub-region. They also pay local supplies on
invoices countersigned by departmental heads and keep records of expenditure.
Veterinary and Animal Production Services
17.       The Veterinary Department is responsible for animal health, animal
production, and meat inspection. It runs a number of livestock centres,
controls stock movement and has the responsibility for organizing and



ANNEX 3
Page 6
supervising markets although recently ONDE has undertaken some of these
functions. The Department has a sound basic organizational structure of
diagnostic clinics, dispensaries, dips, field housing and livestock centres
on which to build its work program. Unfortunately political disturbances
in the past, lack of running and maintenance funds and other problems have
not allowed the department to use their facilities efficiently, many of
which are now in various stages of disrepair. The Department's relatively
large staff are underemployed because funds are lacking.
18.       A veterinarian is in charge of the sub-region which is divided
into five veterinary zones, (six including llambasa). The zone boundaries
generally follow those of the administration with the exception of Irumu
which for veterinary purposes is split into Gety and Irumu. A small
section deals with Bunia itself and neighboring Kisenyi. The zones, which
are divided into sectors (24 in all), are run by an Assistant Veterinarian
or an Infirmier. Each sector has a clinic or dispensary and there are 39
dispensaries and 27 cattle dips serving collectivities at which one or two
infirmiers or their assistants are stationed; there are also centres without
dispensary buildings at which staff are stationed. Small village slaughter-
houses and weighing scales are found in some areas (Annex 2 for marketing).
Staff housing is available for 30 infirmiers or assistant infirmiers in
the field. The Department employs about 240 staff (excluding those paid
by the collectivities but under Veterinary supervision) of which the
technical grades of field services consist of the Veterinarian in charge
(Level Al) 5 local and foreign Assistant Veterinarians (A2), 57 Infirmiers
(A3) with varying training backgrouns and 124 untrained Infirmier assistants.
Two Assistant Veterinarians, 5 Infirmiers and 2 assistant inspect meat and
markets. Several technical staff work on livestock stations. A more detailed
staffing schedule is given in Tables 5 and 6.
19.       While more than adequate in number of the operating funds available,
the quality of the service, certainly for any future expanded program, is
adversely affected by the disproportionate number of poorly qualified or
unqualified personnel. The problem is further compounded by infirmiers
having poor animal husbandry knowledge, a subject not adequately covered
in their courses. While the level of livestock husbandry in Ituri does
not warrant a large number of qualified veterinarians, a veterinarian will
be needed in the north as well as the south considering the distances and
need to monitor unofficial movements of stock between neighboring states.
Three os the zone chiefs are Infirmiers instead of Assistant Veterinarians;
three of the sector chiefs are Assistant Infirmiers and not Infirmiers while
only 8 Infirmiers work at dispensaries in the field and on collectivities.
While part of this problem may be explained by the existing staff disposition
and priorities it is clear that qualified staff are insufficient at zone,
sector and dispensary level. In future staff reorganization it must be re-
cognized that Government staff cannot be dismissed; reducing staff numbers
must depend on transfers and attrition.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
20.       The annual cost of the Ituri Veterinary Service is difficult to
estimate. From various figures it would appear to be about Z 225,000 of
which 80% is for salaries. Available funds are not enough to maintain and
equip existing facilities and to keep qualified staff fully operational
in the field. Between 1971 and 1974 some funds were made available for a
dipping program; charges did not cover costs. Reports for 1973 and 1974
indicate that 191,000 and 333,000 cattle were dipped representing a weekly
rate of 4,000 and 6,000 per week respectively. In 1975 no funds have been
available to purchase dipping materials and to purchase drugs and inoculants
for sale to farmers. The shortage has been compounded by the recent closure
of private pharmaceutical trading operations in the sub-region which has
reduced the supply of all types of drugs (they supplied mainly human needs);
it is uncertain whether State trading concerns can take over adequately.
The effect has been very demoralizing on staff. Present staff activities
are concentrated on microscopy and other examination, some vaccinations
(mainly Anthrax, Rabies, Poultry Typhoid, Newcastle Disease) and some
treatment (mainly worms, trypanosomiasis and mange). As funds are in-
adequate livestock centers remain underdeveloped with a few stock being
maintained by staff mainly paid by collectivities. The centers include
Djugu (290 ha - 31 cattle); Ngei (55 ha - 16 cattle); Djodjo (114 ha -34
cattle); Nri (113 ha no cattle); Muchapa (410 ha - 9 cattle); Niambere
(315 ha - 14 cttle); Andiva (120 ha - 83 cattle).
21.       The Ministry of Education has a Veterinary training center for
Infirmiers for Northern Zaire at Loda. The quality of training and
facilities could be improved substantially. (Annex 4 Section C).
22.       The large animal health and production research center at Nioka
is being supported with German technical and capital assistance. Some
11,000 ha in size, the station is situated in the middle of the Project
area (see Map). In the past it was the center for some practical and well
documented animal and pasture production research wich will be of value
for future development in Ituri. The center is administered by the
Institute National Pour L'Etude et la Recherche Agronomique (INERA) which
until recently came under the Presidents office but has now been transferred
to the Ministry of Agriculture. Initial efforts have been directed at re-
establishing the cattle breeding program for the four main breeds kept on
the station, Bahema, Lugware, Alur and Sahiwal/Sindhi crosses (some 2,700
head - the station has a grazing capacity at full development approaching
1 animal unit per hectare). Animal Health surveys are being started and
several practical research experiments have commenced on parasite control.
The station undertakes diagnostic work for the sub-region using converted
Research laboratories. At present the facilities are under utilized but
it would be possible to expand them very eaisly by moving to the neighboring
unused Ngabu laboratories which used to be the center of major diagnostic
work.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Agricultural Services
23.       The Agricultural Department in the sub-region has 2 Agricultural
Graduates (level Ai) 8 Assistant Agricultural Officers (A2) 63 Agricultural
Assistants (A3) and over 50 Agricultural monitors in collectivities (no
training). There is an agricultural school at Pimbo run by the Ministry
of Education training junior staff. In addition missions finance two small
farmers' training centers at Totoba and Gopa. The Ariwara mission in Aru
is pioneering training of draught oxen for farmers in that area. Transport,
travelling and other funds necessary for the extension program are in short
supply; the local agricultural officer also wishes to increase staff numbers
to get better extension coverage.
B. Livestock
24.       According to the 1974 stock census there were in Ituri 297,000
cattle, 306,000 goats, 76,000 sheeps and 37,800 pigs. The majority were
in the traditional farming sector and only 10,000 cattle 1,000 goats 2,000
sheep and 700 pigs were on large farms. Distribution of the stock is given
in Table 3.
Cattle
25.       During the 1950's the cattle herd in the traditional sector built
up to nearly 310,000 head. In the early 60's it declined rapidly to 253,600
head. Since then the traditional herd has increased at about 1.4 percent a
year and has now reached an estimated population of 287,000 head in 1974
(Table 7). The reason for this rather slow build up in cattle numbers is
primarily due to high mortality and a mediocre calving rate. As illustrated
in para 6 about 75% of the animals are concentrated in Irumu and Aru. The
large farm herd of 60,000 animals was decimated in the early 1960's and has
remained low.
26.       Two main breeds of cattle are distinguishable in the sub-region.
The Bahema breed came with the Bahema people from Ethiopia and is characterized
by its very long horns, long body and relatively small head. At Nioka adult
Bahema male cattle average 340 kg liveweight; cows give between 500 and
700 litres milk per lactation. The breed is found principally among Bahema
people in Irumu and Gety. The Lugwari breed is found in the North and is
related to the small East African short horn zebu. Adult males at Nioka
weigh 370 kg with cows giving 400 to 500 litres of milk. Cattle of both
breeds mature in 4 to 5 years but would probably grow faster under better
grazing and husbandry conditions.
27.       The Veterinary Service undertakes regular detailed stock counts
which classify the animals by age and sex. While census recorders differ
in their assessment of stock ages some estimates can be made of combined



ANNEX 3
Page 9
mortality and offtake in each age group. By noting the differences in
stock numbers between age grades and making estimates of mortality it is
possible to calculate offtake percentages for each age group. Figures
should however be taken as order of magnitude and it would be one of the
objectives of the project to verify and check the validity of data being
collected. One of the most striking aspects of the traditional herd
structure is that 47% of all cattle are classified as adult female and 73%
of total herd are female. A high proportion of mature females (35 to 42%)
is often found in pastoral and subsistance cultivater herds although 47%
adult females is possibly higher than average; this is partly accounted for
by the fact that 6% of this number are stock between 3 and 4 years old.
The calving rate is in the region of 52 to 55% but when the mortality
rate for calves of 30% is taken into account the effective calving rate
drops to between 42 and 44%. Mortality of followers is 8 to 12% and adult
stock 5 to 6% with an overall herd mortality of 12 to 13% (46,500 head
including 25,000 calves).
28.       The low calving rate is due to poor grazing management, presence of
old cows, mineral and salt deficiencies, high parasite and disease incidence.
Offtake is about 10 to 11% with over half the male animals being consumed or
sold at an unfinished age of 1 to 3 years indicating that small farmers are
fully exploiting young males in their herds to earn income. Few heifers are
sold because of the desire to build up the herds and many cows are reportedly
kept until they die so that perhaps only 6% of the cows are culled annually
representing about one third of the 31,000 animals consumed or sold. About
15,000 cattle are exported outside the sub-region. (Annex 2). Although hides
and skins drying sheds have been constructed as part of village slaughter
houses the small trade in hides does not appear to reflect the potential.
Livestock are probably the most assured cash income of all agricultural
enterprises in Ituri today.
29.       Over half the cattle deaths are caused by tick borne East Coast
Fever; tick borne Anaplasmosis and Piroplasmosis are also serious. Anthrax
is prevalent and inoculation programs are mounted when serious outbreaks
occur. Internal parasites are serious, particularly among young stock
making them more susceptible, sometimes fatally, to other diseases, and
affecting weight gains and condition of the growing animal. Abundance of
rain and swampy conditions permit a high incidence of Liver Fluke. Try-
panosomiasis is present near forested areas. Cysticercosis is common and
affects the value of the animal to the abattoir or butcher and human health.
Mortality and disease appear to be more serious in the wetter south which
does not have the dry season to serve as a check. 16% of the Irumu herds
are calves compared with 22% in Aru, reflecting higher mortality and
possibly a lower birth rate; evidence supported by the greater demand in
Irumu for dips, drugs and salt.
30.       On average the Southern Bahema have twice as may cattle as others;
3,700 cattle owners live in Irumu with an average of 29 animals each; 8,900
graziers in Aru and 3,000 each in Mahagi and Aru have 10 to 13 cattle each.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
As in most cattle owning societies ownership of cattle appears to have
a skew distribution with more than half the people owning less than half
the cattle. Pressure for cash among the poorer owners often results in
a higher exploitation rate of young stock, even females. Statistics show
great differences in individual herd structures as the needs of the farmer
differ. Any future planning must consider these aspects.
31.       All land belongs to the State.  In traditional areas grazing is
held communally while individuals have cultivation rights in accordance
with customary law. Attempts are made to keep cultivation areas separate
from grazing areas although expansion of the former is increasing conflict
of interest. Use of communal grazing land varies from a free for all to
relatively closely controlled conditions. In some areas graziers rest
pastures and may reserve areas for cattle in milk; some areas may be allo-
cated for use by particular families or group of families or villages. In
an improved state natural pastures could carry at least 1 animal unit per
hectare. On present information, overall stocking density in Ituri is
about 6.8 stock units per grazing hectare in the traditional areas (Table 3)
but there are collectivities where the stocking rate is much higher and
local ovegrazing is occurring (Table 8). In the past Government drew up
plans for grazing management for some of the communally owned land and
some livestock owners understand grazing rotations.
Goats and Sheep
32.       Goats (305,000) and sheep (82,000) are an important source of
meat and cash. Flocks are increasing although statistics are not consis-
tent. In 1973 about 49% of the animals were classed as mature female and
33% as kids or lambs, the latter suggesting, certainly in the case of goats, a
high mortality and/or low kidding percentage. Common health problems with
goats and sheep include worms, Coccidiosis, Salmonella, Mange, Piroplasmosis
(goats) Caprine Pleuropneumonia (goats) and foot rot (sheep). As accurate
information on herd growth and mortality is lacking it is not possible to
estimate offtake although comparing available statistics with those from
countries with similar conditions offtake probably exceeds 20%. Adult goats
might weigh about 30 kg and in 1975 were sold at Z 4 to 6 each with a big
billy fetching Z 7; young smaller goats were sold for Z 2 to Z 3 each. Adult
sheep might weigh about 25kg and are sold at roughly the same prices as
goats.
Pigs
33.       The pig population (38,000) is expanding and is a useful source
of meat and cash. An increasing number are being sold to the forest areas
where they are in demand. About 50% are kept in Djugu, 27% in Irumu and
21% in Mahagi. The pigs are generally small and a mixture of various
breeds. They run free in village areas although some are tethered and
may receive crop residues. Sows seem to have 3 piglets running with them.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
In 1974 about 30% of the pig population were recorded as sows and gilts
and 46% piglets. Worms and pneumonia are the main killers of young pigs
and mange seemed common on the few pigs kept in pens on large farms;
Trypanosomiasis, Cysticercosis and Salmonella are also present. African
Swine fever has been recorded. In 1975 pigs were sold at between 50 and 70kg
for prices ranging from Z 8 to 12 each; a young piglet might cost Z 3.
C. Project Considerations
General
34.       Ituri is a high potential agricultural area from which people
of different origins obtain their livelihood from either crops or livestock
or both. The greatest benefit could be achieved by improving both crops
and livestock. The Government is presently examining methods of improving
the crop sector while at the same time obtaining funds for the development
of the livestock sector. It is evident that this will be a pilot livestock
project affecting one part of the community and considerable funds will be
required for further development once the first project is completed. (See
para 65 for details of further studies).
35.       The Project proposes to improve both animal health and animal
husbandry. Immediate benefits should accrue from the animal health program
as farmers are aware of the benefits and they are not immediately dependent
on great changes in traditional herding arrangements. However long term
benefits will only occur if animal and pasture management are improved.
As the female population is large, a reduction in stock mortality and
improvement in calving rate could result in a substantial increase in stock
numbers leading to overgrazing unless the pasture is improved and offtake
of stock is matched to grazing capacity. Overall there is room for more
stock in Ituri but since many cultivator stockowners wish to stay in their
own communities this will lead to local overgrazing problems which can
only be solved by improving pastures and increasing offtake of young
stock. The national need for more stock demands that the present mortality
be reduced in Ituri but if this is done now it will be done before it is
known whether the people are prepared to follow improved husbandry methods.
Therefore a risk is being taken that most people will eventually introduce
better grazing practices. However unless there are indications of improve-
ment in pasture management being accepted during the course of the project
further expansion of animal health and production services in the area
after 5 years should be reconsidered.
Animal Health
36.       The Project can adopt several alternative strategies in providng
dipping, inoculation, medicines and clinical services to the farmer. Although
one strategy has to be chosen at the outset of the project it may be desirable



ANNEX 3
Page 12
to change it as experience is gained. For this reason, the problems are
explained in detail. The most widespread reduction in cattle mortality
could be achieved through compulsory dipping. Further reductions could
be achieved if annual anthrax vaccinations were undertaken and trypano-
cidal drugs made available.  Mortality and particularly weight gain would
be improved if drugs combating Helminthiasis and Liver Fluke were widely
used; preliminary work at Nioka showed an increase in weight of 1 to 3
year old cattle of 10-25 kg in 3 months from dosing; the value of the
meat being 5 to 10 times the value of chemicals being used. The combined
effect of these controls on a cattle herd could reduce mortality of calves
to 10% and older stock to less than 5% provided the program was widespread,
or at least locally comprehensive, and combined with some grazing control
ensuring that only dipped animals used certain grazing areas. It is
intended therefore to give priority to dipping followed by inoculations
and medicines.
37.       A good dipping program develops a herd of cattle susceptible to
tick borne diseases which could suffer serious casualties in the future
if the program ceased. Once started it is therefore vital that the
program continues and the more thoroughly it is done the more important
it is to stop "dirty" cattle (carrying infected ticks) entering a "clean"
area. lIn the 1950's a subsidized dipping program was operated in Ituri
and revived in a small way in 1973 and 1974. Farmers suffered losses
when the original scheme stopped; they are therefore anxious that a new
scheme is properly organized. The Government has proposed a subsidized
dipping scheme for the first few years followed by an increase in charges
to cover material costs. There was some ambivalance as to whether it
should be compulsory or not, although benefits were based on complete
dipping of the herd. Veterinarians in Zaire maintain that a dipping
program that is not 100% effective, because of the presence of some dirty
cattle, will still reduce mortality because it will reduce the intensity
of challenge that calves receive at present. The dipping program can be
introduced in three ways:
(a) develop the program with interested farmers who will
try to keep their cattle on separate grazing areas
from those who do not dip;
(b) introduce compulsory dipping with 8 km of all
functioning dips; and
(c)  optional dipping for the first two years followed
by compulsory dipping.
38.       The attitude of the farmer to the three alternatives will be
influenced by the cost of the service and the fact that services are sub-
sidized. The dipping material commonly used at present is Asuntol. A
weekly dipping of an animal plus filling of dip bath twice a year would



ANNEX 3
Page 13
cost about Z 1.50 per animal per year for dipping materials alone (Asuntol
Z 15 per kg) assuming that the animal removes 1 1/2 litres dip (1 1/2 grams of
chemical) every time it uses the dip. Larger animals are said to use 2 litres
per dip and according to veterinary department records of the last dipping
program traditional cattle used just over 1 litre per dip - due to the smaller
size of traditional cattle and calves.
39.       An annual charge of Z 1.50 includes a 15% charge to cover losses,
other costs, etc. It does not include the services of veterinary staff
running the dips or their maintenance. Returns from dipping are not immediate
and in the case of a man with 12 cattle the cost of dipping at Z 1.50 per
head would reduce his income by about Z 13 from Z 97 to Z 84 in the first
year and it would not be until the third or fourth year that his net income
returned to the level it was before (Table 4); in year 10 it will have increased
by over 100%. Charging full costs for materials at the beginning of the
program would almost certainly limit initial interest. Some farmers only have
one or two cattle and may have difficulty in finding money although many have
had to find 10 to 50 k per head for a collectivity tax. The conservative man
with over 50 head may resent having to pay a large sum annually. Chiefs of
collectivities and farmers questioned during appraisal in September 1975
before devaluation generally expressed willingness to pay full chemical
costs, even over Z 1.00 per head per year. Some however wanted dipping
but thought Z 1.00 too high. Others, participating in Aru thought some
farmers would refuse dipping and certainly would not wish to pay Z 1.00 per
head. Most discussions were held on the basis that farmers would pay the
full costs.
40.       Government officials felt that compulsory dipping could be intro-
duced and is possible under existing legislation.  If full charges from
the outset were made it would seem that it would be equitable if the scheme
were made voluntary initially and participating farmers had their own grazing
areas. If dip costs are subsidized then participation would certainly in-
crease and dipping could be introduced on a compulsory basis providing the
cost was not a lot higher than the range of collectivity cattle taxes being
raised by many collectivities and if the latter are removed at the same time.
To achieve maximum benefits from the program it is proposed to introduce com-
pulsory dipping of all animals within 8 km of a dip. Initially a subsidized
charge of 60 k per animal per year would be made and after three years farmers
would pay the full cost of the dip materials. A variation would be to have
an escalating charge over the first three years so that by the fourth year the
cost was equal to the cost of the materials. Methods of fee collection could
vary; farmers could pay it either as a dipping charge (on a monthly, quarterly
or yearly basis) or as a Government collectivity tax levied using existing
legislation. Obviously, the question of farmers reaction to paying full costs
will only be known once the project has started and experience has been gained.
If charges prove to be a serious disincentive, a completely subsidized scheme
may have to be considered; in this respect it must be acknowledged that
most Government sponsored compulsory dipping schemes (as against individual
farm or ranch operations) have had to be highly subsidized to get the maximum



ANNEX 3
Page 14
use. The Project will give consideration to using cheaper dipping chemicals
and, in concert with ONDE, will place bulk tenders and orders which should
reduce costs.
41.       The farmers will pay the full cost of drugs and medicines.  Anthrax
is a hazard to both humans and livestock and Government will mount a compulsory
Anthrax inoculation program annually; government will pay for the inoculant,
6 k per dose in early 1976 but estimated to increase by 50% as a result of
the recent devaluation.
42.       As presently envisaged, the Government proposes to operate
the dips for which it will make a 6-monthly charge. It will sell drugs
and inoculants from dispensaries. This will involve considerable organiza-
tion collecting cash and checking of stores. During the course of the
Project efforts should be made to establish farmer associations in order
to take over some of these functions. They would run dips and purchase
drugs in bulk for sale to their members from their own stores, constructed
by self-help. Such a program has started in Kivu under a UNDP project and
is proving popular. When discussed at meetings in Ituri farmers often
indicated that they would like to control as much of the program as possible.
43.       The Project would operate a revolving fund for the purchase and
sale of dipping materials and drugs which would be sold by the Veterinary
Department for cash at 15% above the cost to cover losses etc. Funding
under the Project allows for dipping subsidies to be paid into the fund to
cover shortfalls in dipping fees charged; when the subsidies are withdrawn
all charges should cover cost of materials. Considerable delays in delivery
of materials may occur so that stockpiles will have to made. Losses in
transit to Bunia could be a problem, all cargoes therefore should be fully
insured. Finance required for the revolving fund for drugs, inoculants
and dips is given in Table 10.
44.       The animal health program aims to dip 80% of the cattle in the
Project areas by the fifth year and supply a variety of medicines and
inoculants for about 90,000 treatments to be made annually. 100% cover
against Anthrax would be provided. The proposed build-up is given in
Table 5, but it is stressed that the mix of medicines and number of animals
to be treated can only be regarded as guesses since there is no statistical
information on hand. The proposed siting of dips and dispensaries is given
in Table 9.
Animal Production and Credit
45.       The Animal Production officer would have two Assistants specializ-
ing in goats, sheep and pigs. All field staff would spend half their time
on animal husbandry. Primary attention would be paid to improving grazing
by introducing grazing rotations, eradicating bush and poor grass species,
reseeding fallow land with Setaria and introducing legumes particularly
Stylosanthes and Desmodium. Originally it was expected that special grazing



ANNEX 3
Page 15
and fire guards would be employed directly by the Project. However, organi-
zation of grazing should be done by the farmers themselves. Every assistance
would be given to establishing farmers associations and examining various
ranching organizational systems that might be suitable for the area. Discus-
sions would be held with farmers to determine the methods to be employed
to maintain the correct stock numbers bearing in mind the variation in size,
age and sex of the herds and the various social customs that have to be
satisfied. ONDE will buy young stock for fattening on their own project
financed ranches but in some instances collectivities might be organized
to establish special cooperative fattening areas on collectivities or on
disused large farms.  The first five years should be regarded as a pilot
stage in which different systems might be tried.
46.       The scope for grassland improvement is indicated by Mr. Risopoulos
in his publication "Management and use of Grasslands in Zaire" (FAO Pasture
and Fodder Crop Studies No. 1 - 1966). He quotes livestock carrying capacity
of natural Cymbopogon grassland in Ituri (at 1,600 - 1,900 metres) of 350
kg liveweight/ha under reasonable management with an ouput of 140 kg live-
weight/ha and under good management liveweight production of 190 - 240 kg/ha.
Neighboring land badly used was estimated to carry only 150 - 200 kg liveweight
per ha yielding 50 kg liveweight/ha. Normal carrying capacity of other
savannah areas is given as 235 to 245 kg liveweight/ha with production ranging
from 55 kg to 100 kg liveweight/ha liveweight depending on usage.  As a form
of comparison the present average weights of all animals given in the herd
projection in Table 16 is about 187 kg. Risopoulos also gives yields of
15 tons dry matter per hectare of Desmodium and between 28 to 39 tons/ha
of green matter for improved Setaria species compared with 19 tons for local
species.
47.       In addition to grazing management, herd improvement would include
selection of breeding stock, castration, cow culling, herd management,
feeding minerals and fodders. Attention would be paid to integrating live-
stock operations with cultivation practices e.g., pigs, sweet potatoes,
cattle fodders, conservation of crop wastes etc. Investigations would be
made into developing the collection of surplus milk for sale in zone head-
quarters and for local butter, cheese and ghee production. A small private
milk collection scheme operates near Bunia and might warrant encouragement.
In collaboration with the marketing staff, efforts would be made to improve
hides and skins collection. Where grazing management and disease control
warranted, farmers would be encouraged to purchase improved bulls from Nioka
for their own herds or establishing small bull centers. The reestablishment
of some of the government veterinary stations as bull breeding centers and
demonstration areas is not supported at this stage. Because of disease it
will be at least two years before susceptible bulls can be introduced safely
into the traditional areas; Nioka is likely to be able to meet foreseeable
demands for improved bulls (with sufficient notice it could produce up
to 200 annually). Pasture improvement is normally better demonstrated on
farmers own land areas and funds have been included for purchasing legume
seed for establishing demonstration and seed areas on collectivities that
wish to participate and provide labor. Demonstration materials will also
be provided.



ANNEX 3
Page 16
48.       Goat, sheep, pig and poultry husbandry will receive attention
especially as these animals are important among the poorer livestock owners.
Improvement of animal health through availability of medicines will be import-
ant; in particular, helminth control with sheep, goats and pigs. The animal
production staff will attempt to devise husbandry improvements. For pigs
the economics of cheap pens and the feeding of sweet potatoes especially
grown for them might be investigated, utilizing any meat meal produced from
the Bunia abattoir. Introduction of improved cockerels or making available
clutches of eggs of improved poultry could be consdered. Following investi-
gation and collection of data by project staff the possibility of employing
a short term specialist to recommend husbandry methods for a particular
class of stock might be valuable.
49.       The Project will include a sum of Z 100,000 as a pilot credit fund
to be lnaned to farmers or collectivities for grazing and animal improvement
programs. The fund will be administered by the Project and its use will be
dependent on a general plan of operation being prepared by the Project for
approval by IDA.
50.       Veterinary field staff will be responsible for developing the
marketing services and overseeing the slaughterhouses. Zone and dispensary
staff will organize markets in their area. The development of dipping
facilities throughout the Ituri area will require more attention to health
of animals being moved and on the necessary precautions being taken if
there are clean cattle to be moved through dirty areas.
Fattening Ranches
51.       To provide a market for the increasing number of male stock that
will be produced in the traditional areas and for finishing older animals
ONDE will purchase increasing numbers of stock from small farmers for ONDE's
ranches.
Research
52.       INERA will conduct any necessary animal husbandry and health
research.
Staff and Costs of the Animal Production and Veterinary Services
53.       Project management will examine long-term staff requirements in
relation to needs and available funds and considering the requirements of
other agricultural services in Ituri. Unless comparison is made with other
services there is danger that livestock expenditures could become excessive.
Presently veterinary services are suffering from a shortage of trained staff,
principally at the dispensary level, and operating funds. Small improvements
can be made by redeploying existing trained staff and reducing untrained
personnel but the major improvement in the service will be dependent on an
increase in overall expenditure and recruitment of more trained personnel.



ANNEX 3
Page 17
54.       To start the Project it is proposed to provide direction and
impetus by the employment of a Project Manager, 3 Veterinarians (including
deputy PM), an Animal Husbandry Officer, an Extension and Training Specialist
and a Financial and Administrative Controller. To supervise the doubling of
dips and dispensaries, the field staff of 5 Assistant Veterinarians and 57
Infirmiers would be increased by year 5 to Il and 101 respectively while
untrained staff would be reduced from 119 to 102. This is lower than the
original request which would have required 7 Veterinarians 21 Assistant
Veterinarians and 115 Infirmiers.
55.       At the end of the development period (year 5) the sub-region should
be run by a Veterinarian assisted by a Veterinarian in the south and another
in the north. The Animal Husbandry Officer and his two assistants would
concentrate on animal husbandry. At this stage a Veterinarian is not
needed for each sector; sectors should be run by Assistant Veterinarians
or Assistant Animal Production Officers. Each sector would have an Infirmier
in charge. An average sector has about 4 dispensaries. The correct level
of staffing of dispensaries is difficult to determine without knowing
future demand. Ideally a dip and dispensary should be staffed by
an infirmier and an aide. In terms of work load about 1,000 cattle
can be dipped in 3 to 4 hours so that a dip serving an area with 4,000 to
6,000 cattle might operate 3 days a week. On dipping days the aide would
check the register while graziers help animals through the dip and clean
up afterwards. The Infirmier would treat animals and discuss problems with
farmers. The field staff should spend half their time on animal husbandry
and grazing organization. On this basis the 84 dispensaries and dips would
require 84 Infirmiers. However spray races only deal with about 1,000 head
so that it would be difficult to justify a full time trained man for each
spray race. A look at the siting of dips on the map will show that many
are in clusters or groups with a diameter varying from 10 km to 20 km (see
Annex Table 11). Since an Infirmier could supervise more than one dispensary
it should be possible to devise a less intensive form of staffing of dips
and dispensaries than originally proposed. To start the project it is pro-
posed that an Infirmier would supervise the dipping of 6,000 animals a week
which would take 18 to 24 hours of his time leaving time for treatment
and other jobs on farms; using this criteria only 61 Infirmiers are required.
If dips were grouped and Infirmiers required to deal with more cattle it
would be possible to reduce this number to 42. Determining the correct
numbers of Infirmiers at dispensaries is not the only aspect needing atten-
tion. The work load of Infirmiers in sectors, zones and clinics has to be
carefully examined as these represent about 40% of the Infirmiers.
56.       Veterinary services are expensive.  They must have a reasonable
administrative structure since lives of animals are involved and mistakes
result in serious farmer criticism. The proposed service is no exception
and normal recurrent expenditure will rise from Z 215,000 to Z 378,000 in
6 years (excluding costs of inoculants and drugs). Much of the increase
would meet short falls in financing the present services.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
57.       It is difficult to evaluate the cost of the services on a per
stock owner or per animal basis because the number of farmers keeping all
types of stock is not known. This form of comparison can be misleading
since one of the objectives of the Project is to encourage farmers without
animals to have them and to increase animal production generally. Although
the Project does not provîde funds specifically for poultry demonstration,
funds could be used for this sector. There could be 30,000 farmers who own
cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, donkeys, rabbits out of 175,000 farmer families
so there is scope for improving this number. Using 30,000 stockowners as
a basis, then by 1982 the service would cost Z 10.8 per stockowner family
per year and Z 1.9 per farmer if the service were costed against all farm
families in Ituri. The service is of course of value for the Ituri large
farm sector and for Zaire as a whole. If cost per head of cattle is taken
as a yardstick (remembering that goat, sheep and pig numbers exceed cattle
by 40% and that poultry, mules, donkeys, and dogs also require attention),
then the cost of the field service per head of cattle in 1982 is Z 1.1. These
figures do not include the cost of training or facilities provided by the
Nioka Research Station, and only use to try to develop a rationale for
determining the future level of veterinary services. They illustrate the
need for farmers to pay more for veterinary services, grazing improve-
ments and other infrastructure requirements. The following table sum-
marizes the staffing of the Project at completion, figures in brackets
denote headquarters staff included in the totals:



ANNEX 3
Page 19
Trained Personnel                       Pre-development            Year 6
Veterinarians                            1           (1)        3          (1)
Animal Production Graduates              -            -         1
Assistant Vets./An. Prod.                5           (1)       il          (4)
Infirmiers                              57           (9)     101           (6)
Marketing/Abattoir                       7           (7)        7          (7)
Inspectors
Trained Staff                           70                    123
Field Aide Infirmiers                  119                    102
189                   225
Costs
Salaries, Allowances       Z(OOO)      181                   231
Other costs                Z(OOO)       34                    147
Total Costs                      215                    378
No. Farmers                 (000)      175                    200
No. Stock farmers           (000)       30                     35
No. Cattle                  (000)      292                   349
No. Farmers per trained staff        2,500                 1,640
No. Stockowners per trained staff   430                       280
No. Cattle per trained staff        4,170                  2,840
Cost per livestock farmer (Z)          7.2                  10.8
Cost per head of cattle (Z)            0.7                    1.1
58.       The Project would first review staff dispositions to improve
efficiency and reduce overstaffing in certain areas. A veterinarian and
11 Infirmiers should be recruited in the first year from training schools.
Headquarters and zone HQ's appear overmanned with Infirmiers and aides so
that some would be transferred to the field. Initially diagnostic work
would be concentrated at Nioka, where the laboratories are presently



ANNEX 3
Page 20
running at 25% capacity. All activities on the virtually empty veterinary
stations would be stopped. Although housing would still be used by field
staff, all stock would be passed to ONDE who would undertake to return
a similar number at a future date if required. Investment, personnel and
operating costs are provided in Tables 12, 13 and 14. Details of the
revolving fund are given in Table 10. Staff disposition and numbers
represent the situation in 1975 but changes could occur before the Project
starts.
Staff Training (Annex 4)
59.       Training for existing personnel would be provided at the proposed
center at Ngabu (Nioka). The Project would have a special Extension and
Training Specialist in Bunia. In collaboration with other staff members
he would examine needs in the field. He would work very closely with the
Ngabu center. He would determine the role of existing Farmer Training Centers
at Gopa and Totoba and assist in designing suitable short term courses for
staff farmers, leaders involved in livestock inoovation and the livestock
curriculum of the present long term courses held at these centers. He would
liaise with staff from Pimbo and Loda training centers to help make their
courses more relevant.
60.       An important task would be to prepare a handbook of standard
recommendations for use by all staff in the field. He would help design and
introduce extension work programs and reporting methods for staff. He
would prepare demonstration and lecture courses that staff can use at meetings
with farmers in the field and propose how pilot or leader farmers can be
identified and used in the project. Infirmiers should be encouraged to run
one day courses on subjects of topical interest at their dispensaries and
in the villages.
61.       With the help of Infirmiers he would design radio programs for
farmers to be broadcast from the Kisangani Broadcasting Station.
Implementation
62.       The first two years of the Project would be mainly spent repairing
and bringing into operation existing facilities, introducing more trained
staff (Table 5), training staff (Annex 4) and developing the organization
of the animal health program. In these two years the following would be
undertaken: headquarters offices would be expanded and stores built in
zone and sector headquarters; in the field 6 new dips would be constructed
making a total of 42 in operation; 2 spray races; 12 new dispensaries and
10 junior staff houses would also be built to match the number of dips.
Proposed sites for new dips and dispensaries would be reviewed. Expatriates
(7) and new senior Zairian staff would be housed in existing houses (for
which some funds for renovation where necessary have been included).  Where-



ANNEX 3
Page 21
ever possible, farmers would be encouraged to help by providing labor for
cleaning furrows, cutting fence posts for cattle yards, digging foundations
etc. If the program is succeeding at the end of year two then 30 new dips
10 spray races, 33 dispensaries and 21 houses would be added to complete the
program in years 3 and 4. Some dips will have water supplied by water pumps
while others will depend on furrows dug by self help groups. The dips and
dispensaries would be sited so that each would handle about 4,000 cattle
(1,500 to 6,000) while spray races would be tried for smaller numbers. To
gain experience of this type of operation, the first two spray races would
be included in the second year of the Project - to see whether spray races
can be supervised and serviced adequately. Spray race running costs are
estimated at Z 500 annually but careful costing is necessary since costs
could be higher if much maintenance becomes necessary. At an annual cost
of Z 500, costs per animal of spray race operation would be Z 0.50 per
head if 1,000 cattle used the spray race.
63.       Contract building costs have increased substantially in Ituri
and the Project will seek reductions through changing design, building
methods, and materials; the Project may also set up its own building
team. In September 1975 new dip building costs were quoted at Z 12,000
yet from quantity estimates given in Table 15 it appeared that these could
be halved to Z 6,000. Following devaluation this estimate has been in-
creased to Z 9,500. Because of the size of the building program and
the importance it will assume in future projects a practical building
specialist will be engaged for the first two years of the Project.
64.       The Project will have its own workshops for normal maintenance
and repair work; vehicles on ONDE ranches and the abattoir would also use
these facilities. More difficult repairs involving special equipment would
be done in the sub-regional workshop. An expatriate mechanical engineer will
be employed at the beginning of the Project to establish the workshop.
Evaluation and Further Studies
65.       The Project would establish a monitoring system to evaluate progress.
Consultants may be employed from time to time to examine particular aspects.
$380,000 has been included to undertake further studies which might include
(Annex 10):
(a) investigations of individual problems arising during the
Project e.g. pasture; tsetse; methods to improve small stock
husbandry;
(b) investigations to find alternative employment
opportunities for the declining labor force at
Kilomines (probably combined with (c);
(c) a comprehensive agricultural study of the area
after 2 to 2 1/2 years including specialists in
agriculture, fisheries, livestock, training,



ANNEX 3
Page 22
marketing, land tenure, economics, roads and
perhaps sociology with the objective of producing
a future development plan; and
(d) in year 4 an evaluation team consisting of a
livestock specialist and economist would evaluate
the Project.
Herd Projections and Benefits
66.       An Ituri herd projection (Table 16) has been developed on the
basis that by year 5:
(a) 80% of the herd is dipped;
(b) there is an annual Anthrax inoculation program;
(c) about 30 to 60,000 animals receive some veterinary
treatment annually and that;
(d) some elementary grazing management is introduced on
some of the land.
Under these assumptions calf mortality of dipped animals would drop from
30 to 15% and mortality in other age groups will drop proportionately;
this is less than could be achieved under conditions of good management.
If undipped animals are taken into account then for the Ituri herd as a
whole, calf mortality would drop to 18%, calving rate increase by 5% and
average weight of animals would rise by 6 kg over 10 years. The growth
rate of the herd would double and in 10 years the herd would have increased
40% in numbers and overall mortality dropped from 12% to 8% 1/. Offtake of
cattle would have increased from 10% to 14% 2/. An increased percentage of
young male stock will be taken off for sale to fattening ranches while there
will be a percentage reduction of sales of animals over 5 years. However
the relative percentage of exploitation of the five age groups has been
roughly maintained on the grounds that pressure for cash, local customs,
type of animal killed and the slow pace of change in rural communities will
only slightly affect the composition of the herd. Male offtake will there-
fore be as follows:
1/   Deaths as percentage of herd at beginning of year plus births.
2/   Offtake as percentage of herd at end of year.



ANNEX 3
Page 23
Male Offtake (see Table 16)
Year 0             Year 13
Bulls/steers   9-24 months    2,336    11.2%    7,634    19.8%
'  "  24-36 months    9,052    43.2%   15,700    40.8%
36-48 months    3,507    16.7%    6,261    16.3%
48-60 months    1,460       6.9%    2,727      7.1%
over 60 months  4,672    22.0%    6,159    16.0%
21,027   100.0%   38,481   100.0%
67.       The carrying capacity of Ituri is difficult to estimate.  Cattle
are unevenly distributed at present. Many existing grazing areas could
take more stock and if the animals were evenly distributed over Ituri and
grazing improvements made, carrying capacity could be greatly increased.
It has therefore been assumed that the present herd could grow by at least
40% providing there was some distribution between areas and improved grazing
practices were introduced in areas presently showing signs of grazing pressure.
Serious localized overgrazing is more likely to occur after the development
period of the project. To evaluate the benefits of the project the mission
levelled off the growth of the female herd by year 10, and thereafter kept
it constant as further growth would be dependent on more infrastracture
development. Therefore from year 10 onwards the culling rate of cows and
heifers over 3 years has been raised from 9 to 12% to stop further herd
growth. Experience with traditional herds elsewhere suggests that stock-
owners will want to increase their herd with or without improvement. If
the capacity of the grazing has been reached at that time the herd numbers
would rise and fall about the mean, depending on weather conditions, slowly
causing degeneration of the grazing. If development continues to increase
the grazing capacity then females could be used for increasing the breeding
herd. At this point however it is not productive to speculate what will
happen too far into the future until the Project starts and its acceptance
can be assessed.
68.       Using these assumptions it is therefore estimated that under the
Project the herd would increase from 292,000 head to 418,000 in 13 years;
without the Project it would increase to 350,000 head in 13 years and
386,000 head by year 20.  Liveweight offtake would increase from 7,100 tons
to 15,100 tons in 13 years of which 6,600 tons could be ascribed to the
Project. In the same period milk available for home consumption might
rise from 5.7 million liters to 9.4 million liters of which 2.6 million
would be due to the Project (Table 17).
69.       Individual farmers herds vary considerably in number, age, and
sex. There is no typical herd size. On a statistical basis it is estimated
that the Irumu farmer has an average of 29 head and farmers in other areas



ANNEX 3
Page 24
about 12 or 13 head. Using assumptions adopted in the main herd and
applying them to a herd of 12 cattle (the average number in Aru) it is
possible to show that if a farmer dipped his cattle and applied medicines
and inoculants to 10% to 20% of his herd his net cash income from cattle
sales could rise from Z 97 per year to Z 222 in 10 years, and his herd
capital value would increase over 50%; without the Project it might rise
to Z 129 (Table 4). In fact if he was in a well controlled collectivity
he would do somewhat better since his calf mortality might be nearer 12 to
15% rather than the 18% calf mortality assumed for the whole herd. He
could also expect an increase in milk production from the extra cows of
about 290 liters per annum which has a market value of 4 to 6K per liter
in local markets.



ANNEX /ANNEXE 3
Table  /Tableau 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                              PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL RECORDS                                                PLUVIOMETRIE
MOYENNE ANNUELLE
Number         Period/        Average/        Average        Annual extremes/
Station/               of years/                                      No of Days/
Postes                 Nombre        Péricde          Moyenne         Moyenne         Cotes extremes
d'années                                          de              annuelles
jours        Min.          Max.
mns                          smms          mms
Adia                          12            34/45          1422,3            125           1200,1   1758,8
Bunia                          8            37/44          1259,2            168           1118,1   1358,8
Blukwa                        10            34/43          1149,1            132           1289,    1663,6
Dekelele                       9            37/45          1393,3            159           1160      1671,4
Fataki                        12            34/45          1198,7            111           1002,6   1395,9
Gina                           7            36/42          1418,8            100           1133      1584
Gety                          14            32/45          1549              122           1279,6   1918
Irumu                         il            34/45          1275              101            936,25  1591,4
Kasenyi                       il            34/45           994               87            848,2   1119,9
Kerekere                       8            38/45          1383,5            116           1128,8   1803
Kilomines                      5            39/45          1640              177           1227,2   2322,46
Rana                           7            33             1327              110           1010,5   1578,3
-           40/45             -               -              -         -
Kwandruna                     13            33/45           1290,3           113           1026,7   1434,7
Mahagi port                   13            12/17            -                -              -        -
-            37/48          1112              87             700,2   1740,9
Mongbwalu                     15            29/43          1817               -            1350      2350
Nioka                         12            34/45          1231,5            150            968      1668,29
Nyarembe                       8            36/41            -                -              -         -
45          1244             106           1107,7   1403,7
Source:  Preparation Report                                               Source: Rapport de Préparation
November 21, 1975                                                         le 21 novembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
TABLE/TABLEAU 2
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                 PROJECT DE DEVELOPPENT DE L'EIEVAGE EN ITURI
NIORA - CLIMATIC DATA                                                                 `II0KA - DONNEES CLIMATIOUES
Mlximum         Minimum         Daily mean       Effective       Insolation         Relative       Daily        Evaporation
Rainfall/         temperature/    temperature/    Temperature/    insolation/          in % of          humidity      relative      Piche under
Precipitations          (t0max.)         (t min.)         (t moy.       (Insolation       possible          at 12:00     humidity(         cover/
Months/                                                            journalière)    effective)        insolation/         hre/        h umidite     Evaporation
Mois                                                                                               (Insolation        Humidité      relative
en % de          relative      Journa-
l'insolation      a 12.00       liè're)
possible)          hrs
(20 years)/        (10 yearsV       (10 years)/      (10 years)/      (6 years)/       (6 years)/       (9 years)/   (9 years)/    (8 years)/
(20 ans)           (10 ans)         (10 ans)         (10 ans)          (6 ans)         (6 ans)          (9 ans)       (9 ana)         (8 ans)
mas                  0C               C                °C              hours             %               %             %               cc
January/          30.1              27.0              12.2             19.6             237-0           63.9             41.3           55.0           118.3
janvier
February/         48.3              27.5              12.7             20.1             203.0           60.0             40 6           54.6           165.7
février
March/           105 4              27 2              13.7             20 5             193.5           51 5             47 1           61.6           155.1
mars
ApriV            143.3              25.9              13.9             19.9             185 6           50.8              56 3          69 3           105.4
avril
May/             123.2              25.4              13.6             19 5             185.0           48 8              60 8          72.6            92 4
mai
June/            108.7              24.3              12.4             18.4             173.9           47 4              61.0          72.9            75.4
juin
JuIy/            118.8              23.0              12.1             17 6             132 4           34.9             64 4           75 9            71.9
juillet
August/          187.5               23.2             12.5             17.9             124.2           32.8              66.6          78 0            57 5
ao t
Septembep/       199.7              24.2             12.4              18.3             143.3           39 3             64 7          77 2             63 3
septembre
October/         133 7              24.6             13 0              18.9             165.9           44.3             61.4           84.3            79.0
octobre
November/         92.2              25 2              13.1             19.2             222.9           61.7             52.2           66 0           117 2
novembre
December/         53.5              25 6              12.7             19.1             230,8           62 0             47.6           61 8           141.0
décembre
Annual Average
Moyenne annuelle
1,344.4              25.3             12.9              19.1           2,196.0           49.7             55.3           68.4         1,322.1
Source: "Management and Use of-Grasslands"5A RISOPOULOS Pasture and Fodder Crop Studies, FAO Rose 1966.
Aménagement etlUtilisation des pâturages, SA RISOPOULOS - Etudes de Pâtures et des Plantes Fourragères
FAO Roae 1966.
November 21, 1975                                                                              le 21 novembre 1975



Tablil Mhu 3
I2 LunTa So            W7R fROJQO                                                          PU»DI MJI SPV EL DE LE              GE  E1 MW7UI
esteeina %it.  tot2k-erbhiD Dod Cromie  Aia  197i                                                 ZOO.:e Superfici  et fîstribuîiso dua ,al1.
de lu Propriété du Utal  etii9rîbutinifid           e C re. -  i974
A.  Ztut StDel Iobe   d                                                                                   Pr. hi t   w.eoethsta d. Bétail et do ia, Smecite  *-a Zones s t Itu
AtU    10840      MMO,       Wemllil!       TOTAL
Tot5.1 Aiea  oSe                                            5D6,874   5,164    9,223        7,977        29,238 1                             b vica toe <lln h.)
Total lattis 10e (cm)                                         114        43        32         108           29.né ttr    orn   e   ilas
Total Goal  fls  (000)                                        114        52        55          45           306              riot2 0.Cbèvre. on miller)
otlShosep  Noé (000)                                       49          B        27                        76       ___-rdr  toA        utnee   llce
Total Pige   mos (000)                                         -          8        19          il            38               rFmb-  to.tal. ae porta (s milliers)
B.  stoek  Dmahie        1094          N,   (000)                                                    la.   Proprilt  du Ittil en 1974 - Nombre d. tat.. on milliers
Cattît/        Goatft          SleP/       Piga/
Bovins         Chipie.         No,tqn      Pore
r ters1t Fri                                 02  7                          -           0.1                                  ixpl-liatisn  aurnenie
Large  ueme                                  2.               -              -                                                Erodo  Eepioitatioee
flieeia  lama,                               1.1              1.      20                 57Exploitatîons a..  iodisens
TradOtiooal Llreetock                       7.0             309.0          74.0        37.0                                   Elevage traditionnel
Amax                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annexe
297.0           306.D           76.0        37.8
C. Traditional Frdmti  Arae                                                                             C. Régions arioles treditionellee
St-cx Pasulation                       AW7       U74AAGI    DJWII    iNI7/OET          T0TA.L          Nombre do BUtail
Cattl. Nos                                                    112         39          30           106         287           NotrDe d. bovina
EXCiUd1nG C IYe.  Nnx                                         90          3;          24            85        23D            (le nobre dos -ea-u éetnt -xolu)
ECosta    o r.                                               154          52          55             44       305            Notbr  do cîhvrde
She,p  Ms.                                                     48          7          12              7         74           Nnore de  .uitons
pis.  Soc                                                     -            8          19             10         37           Notbre de p-rc
Anisal USite Cttle., Gote, Shecp                              130         43          17             95        305            Unitéo  h     bétail:  bovins - oh8e-  -n ons
St-khi   Rat )l/                                                                                                              Cosiéd dsra  '
ho/LA7tsed oi Tota1 Arie                                      5.3       12.0        24.9           8.4         9.6             b/ ntt  db           a b ra ed i
Estimt. uf Aras  ccupied by Treditional faerts,                                                                              Estintkon dc la supprfiuto oocupée par des exploitants trodiîloccelc
ho2                       6,924       4,71i       7,701          7,991    26,764                   r
Ar. setintsd usseable or  owpsilable k.2                      975      1,118         721           447       3,261            Soparfici. astiS.  i,ntildl-.ae ou n- n-di.poeibla ke2
Cstietad cr55 nsltivrted                                     709         784        S83            336       2,712           otietion des superficies o2îtivées
crseeog available ho2                                      5.240       2.846       6,097         6,608      20,790            Moturasee disponiblee en 1k2
bS/A.U. of grasixg 7/                                         4.0        6.6        16.4            6.9        6.8 H/unité do bétail:  flt-ag.e
PopsLetion                                                                                                                   Population
Popusstion  1973 (000)                                        192        236         358            186        972            Popotltior 1973  ndlliera`
Eet.No crtop f  -trs                                         33.7       41.4        62.8           32.6      170 5           Eatiaiton Su notbre d        1s cultivoteure
t. No  cttle onier-                                           8.9        3.0         3.0           3 7        18.6           EStiation du notbre do sPsriét,iree do btdeil
So  iattle/LivestOck onftr 2/                                12.6       13.0       I10.           29 0        1516           Notre le bovds/prupriétnire de bétail  /
Bs.  IultivatisP par Yodly                                    2.1        1.9         1.4            1.1        1.6           hecacas cultivés per f eile
D. )fJ10 Cr5  (fa '00)                                                                              D   Prin=lpaloso ulturoe  (on  illiera ds heotareel
haricodt                                                     24.4       22.9        29.5            7.8       84.6           H-riuot.
moite                                                        16 7       15.9        26.1            9.6       68.3           sais
Cssesvs                                                     16.2        21.1       12.6            8.3        58.1            Caesars
S-eot Pot.tos                                                0.7         8.8        13.9            3.9       27.3           patate doute
Ground ute                                                   11.1        9.0          .7            2 7       17 5           Areuides
Arnbilac- fdeo                                                5.          3.8        2.9             -         7.0            Café Arabi-
ctte                                                           -         2.6         -              -          2.6           Cotoe
Rie,                                                          0 3        0.4         0 6            0.8        2.3           Ric
Nobueta Cffea                                                 1.0        0.1         0.2            0.5        1 .            Café Rubusat
Logum                                                        Z-           -          1.1           -            1.1           éuinne
Tes/Qoinlot                                                  70.9       76.4        88.3           33.6      271.2           Th/u ioa
li  Stocking rats. et bh  t4kao castiously ae th,                                                3/  Les cqnpit. de sharge doivest être condidérds. *vec prudésce sec las rseegssmont.
lnfsostiue on  ea vailabl. e sonfblisîia.                                                        sbcêtus *ur be euperfiiee disponibles es,t convsadistoire.   eesa nsn-compri.,
EcIud., c Lves, I sheep and gSa 'quioalsat I etock unit.                                         1 eautsn.et.1 chaste o         &ri de bértl
2/  Ebout 5,000 dr est cltiv                                                                         EnirDit 3.000 me font pas ds culture.,
uorure:  PrjoOet  .pplteti«t. retiriut&uy ond agriculturl                                      Source: Appliîrtion du projet, rapport  retérinair i et  griole do 1974 pour l Itur.
report of 1974 for Itui.
Deceb.r 2, 1975                                                                                 le 2 dectbre 1975



2AIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    PROJET DE DE:zLOpPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
ESTIMATE OF INCOME FROM TRADITIONAL CATTLE hERD              ESTIMATION DU REVENU PROVENANT DE L'ELEVAGE
IN THE TRADITIONAL SECTOR                                   DANS LE SECTEUR TRADITIONNEL
Value of       Value of                                            Estimated Cost       Incresental
No. of            Average          Production 1/ Consumption        Value of        Incremental          of Dipping              Cash
Year/Année         No. of Cattle/       Offtake/       Cattle Sold/       Price/Kg LW/      Valeur de   Out of Market   Cash Sales/   Cash Surplus/             Drugs/Mineral 3/  Surplus/Deficit/
Nombre de Bétail  Exploitation  Nombre de             Prix Moyen/       Production 1/ 115 Kg LW 2/   Valeur de            Excédent          Estimation des    Excédent/Déficit
Bétail Vendu      kg de poids vif                    Valeur de       Ventes au    Différentiel de   Frais d'Immersion    Différentiel
Consommation    Comptant          Trésorerie          Médicaments/          de Trésorerie
Mors du Mazché                                          Minéraux 3/
%                               Makuta                         115 kg de poi         Z2
0                  12                10.7            1.28                 56           162.0              64.80           97.2               -                                       _  _
1                  12.2              10.8            1.31                 60           177.6              69.0           108.6             11.4                 13.4 (24.4)          (2.00)
2                  12.6              10.8            1.36                 60           184.4              69.0           115.4             18.2                 13.8 (25.2)           4.4
3                   13.1             11.1            1.45                 60           196.6              69.0           127.6             30.4                 14.4 (26.2)          16.0
4                   13.7             11.2            1.53                 60           207.5              69.0           138.5             41.2                 27.4                  13.8
5                  14.3              11.7            1.67                 60           226.5              69.0           157.5             60.3                 28.6                 31.7
6                  15.1              11.9            1.79                 60           242.7              69.0           173.7             76.5                 30.2                 46.3
7                  15.7              12.7            1.99                 59 4/        265.2              67.9           197.3             100.1                31.4                 68.7
8                   16.1             13.6            2.19                 59           291.9              67.9           224.0             126.8                32.2                 94.6
9                  16.6              13.8           2.29                  59           305.2              67.9           237.3             140.1                33.2                 106.9
10                  17.0              14.2            2.41                 59           321.3              67.9           253.4             156.2                34.0                 122.2
Without Project -    - 13.8                10.7           1.48                  59           197.3              67.9           129.4             32.2                   -                   32.2
Year 10/
Sans Projet -
Annee 10
If  Estimated average weight of all animals consumed and sold: 226 kg lw.                1/ Le poids moyen de tout le bétail consommé et vendu est estimé é 226 kg  de poids vif.
Tf  At present estimated 40% not passing through markets assumed to be esten             2/ A présent on suppose que le 40% ne passant pas par les marchés est consommé par et vendu aux voisins,
or sold ta neighbors i.e. 115 kg.  Prices before development second                     soit 115 kg.  Avant le développement,les prix étaient de 62 makutas le kg pour la première                        H >f
category 62 k/kg and third category 54 k/kg and first year 80k& 54krespectively.    catégorie, 54 makutas le kg pour la deuxième catégorie et de 80 et 54 makutas respectivement                          - r
3/  Dipping 1.50 k per animal and drugs, minerals and salt 50 k per animal;                 pour la première année.
Total 2.00 k per animal   In first 3 years dips subsidized at 60 k but               3/ Immersion, 1.50 makutas par tête, et médicaments, minéraux et sels 50 makutas par tête; total                      >0
drugs fully charged making a total cost of 1. 10 k  Figures ir brackets in              2,00 makutas par tête.  Au cours  des 3 premiéres années les immersions seraient subventionnées                   t ce
firstthree years give cost without subsidv.                                            à raison de 60 makutas mais les médicaments  seraient entièrement payés au prix coûtant de
de 1,10 makutas. Les chiffres entre parenthèses dans les trois premières années donnent le
cout sans subvention.
4/  Price declines because of selling younger animals at the lower grade.                4/ La baisse du prix est due aux ventes de bétail plus jeune et de qualité inférieure.
July 20, 1976                                                                            Le 20 juillet 1976



2AIRE
ITURI LTVESTOCR DRVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                         PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LOIEVAGE EN ITURI
Nos Lue-s  Teehbinal Staff R.nutremnt. Building Proarcu                                         Nouveau Besoin On Tuhnuict..s Locaux.      ug Prs  de tunscrustlon et No..re dsiueant  Qui
ced Nbuer of Stkob baing dito.d *nd renelven                                                                  devront  suivre le traitonesi ontipsrasitairs
Madinitue aed Isoulanta
No. o      Total as
foture   -------_--       -- Y.er/Ass--e------- t----- tff            Pull
lerelupeent/             Nec Staff/Units Required d          eq'lî/   Developtent/
Avant             Nouveau  oeru _nnel/Unitds requises  Recoin        Total R
Developpent 1          2         3          4           5   Ps             P;lrein
Techuinal Staff <So. smo à-.c.s)                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..il          
Techoteal Se ff (See *tso ier^*xes)                                                                                                                 7'ersonnel téchnique rVoir onssi lee Pesonrl tébsîqe  arjr assi  es eaeses
Veetri-riaos osutferpeets                                           1     -                 1           -          -         I          2                                                        Vétésicsires (gereunsel safiseal)
PeélNor,th                                                 1                   -         --                   1          1                                                              OIt le ternis/Nord
Ani_I P-roduction grséaote Concte-pas-t                                   -         -       -              I                                                                                      Percunnel de .ontrearrtie chargé de lu produofînu eD mle
Aeeietaut Veteriuarian/kuI,al Prudutti-n hq                                                                                                                                                       Aide vftérlnalre/prudunîlun   nile   siège
or Equiiesct G-rade  Field/Zlne                                    4      2        1        -           -          -        3           7                                                              uon graes  équivalent - ur le torraln/suue
Abattoir                                     2      -        -        -          -          -         2           Z                                                                                             abatt.ir
Clit                                         -                                              I         I                                                                                                         uliniqise
Isfiteeiere  9urbekt/AbettOira                                     5                                                                    5       R-d--u   by 1 or 2 i  fiît   tvo yeore          Icflresere:  mrhéu/abattlrei
Pbaran/Ci iioc  119                                          -         -       -           -          -         -          5       Radu..  tr  6 inueconé peur acéd 5 it  fifth                   phauie/ulicîque
Feld (Tbl    6)i/                                 48    il        12       14          10          -        7          95                                                                      su  1. terin (A-     )
Vt.  Statin                                            2     -         -       -           -          -         -          i                                                                       ctntre vétériucire
Total freined  tcaff                              72      -         -       -                                         120                                                                            Tt  d                f
Aid lufermiere - Ilut.' icd                                       128     -         -       -           -          -         -        lIS       Raductinu Oee fiee arui                                              T infurmiere:  nonfors
200     -         -       -           -          -         -        225
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION o Y ZONES                        ECONSTRUCTION
Dipe?                                                                                                                                           IRUtM      GPTY     DJUGU    SMSAGI   aRU                 Racelu  6 fecnn
Rcietiag (Ninur repaire)                                           27    22         -       -           -_-                            27         4         8i        2                                -7_  en plane (r4é urutionc minusee l
Reqeire major repatre                                               9     -         9                                                   9 -  -    2         1         R         4        2             -    .é.ee.iteut dtisportnten répttions
None-v-                                                                             6      15          15          -        36         36         6         2         8          3      17             -nouveau
Total Dipo                                                   36    27        15       15          15          -        -          72        12        il       10         13       26       Total
SPgr  Rance                                                                         2       4           6          -        10          12        1         2         6          3       0       cnsel     d'îeneraîuc
Teti1 éigging faniliticu  in Operattio                              -    27        44      63          84         R4        84          8s              -             -          -                Numéro total rJ b eine  é'ieriae    n fcuife
Ut  oC ttle beiag dipprd seekly at ypor asd (Ris)                   -             138     191         250        280         -        280                                                           =   t -  -  -  EeflssafirI 1a fin de l'n.e dè  ceabre de bétail (m nalliee)
au. tbtal cctte populatiou (000)                                    -   298       3i7     319         333        350         -        350         -         -         -          -       -        Eti      cbadunea      de  burins (en mil1lere)
Dipensearice                                                                                                                                                                                      Diioge.eaires
Exietiug (repairc)                                           39    25          7       7           -          -         -         39         7        10         7         7        8             -        aCen  e(  stu
N_e                                                            -     2       10       14          19          -       45          45         6         3         9         9       18-
Total. t ipenscrlee                                                 27       17       21          19                              84        13        13        16        16       26             No   %r?o'tl de diépîaatre
Total Diepm...riee i Graéee                                             27        44      65          84         84         -          84         -        -         -          -        -      No_bre toctl ds diepenoatis  cuIre leu gom
stor    -  -Zoee-      -Rir                                               5         -        -          -          -                     5         l        i         S          1        1 I I   Mgauius   -nne - nu-ux
- Seetor - Ne                                                             10       1i           -                  21          21        4          3        4          5        5                   se.teur -  nve-ux
BQ Offisce - WVrkbhop                                               -     I         -        -                     -         I           I         -         _        -          -        -       3ueaun du uilge - atelier
Jahto  staf f hostec                                                -     -         -        -           -         -         -           -         -         -        -          -        -       LPgebent- pour le preonel cubalten
Eiutitsg (repaire)                                           30    10        20        -           -          -         -         30         7         8         2          7       6             -  en plas. (réroln)
NRe                                                            -     -       10       20          20          -        50         S0         6         4        il          9      20
Total Junior Staff RouJe.                                                                                                         80        13        12        13        16       26             Ne tbrotetat de lugemeute pour le paee8neal eubaltarne
oit. Iuber sf Stonk tfo Recett  Iuulactc/Nodlines                                                                                                                                                                                      d     t
C.ttle  - Asthrea ine-ulation  (000)                               14   100       200     300         320        330       330           -         -         -        -          -        -       Bovine - unoculation foutre ce curunu (milliere)
- Typanosidal drsge    (000)                               1      2        5       10          10         10       10                                                                              tsedîoa     .t    e  tee inlemhtu.e  ds tynma et
-  almnthige          (000)                              1     8        14      20          26         34        34           -        -                   _ -        -                -          elufiltteo      r    -     l       n       t
- Other Neédiinee       (000)                              1      3        5        9          13        17        17
- Saît/Hie ale          (000)                                     2        5        8          12         17       17           -         -         -         _         _        _               - tae mércua
- oute, Sheep, Pigs   (000)                                       2        4        8          16        32        32           -         -                                                      - osséren  outoge  porus
/    Redistributio- uf eninting iniers vill fill earlY vacanties cosbined with sote retraining nf ride .La reditrtibvuti                              nn d nftrcters en plut., de seNte la forsetion  d`sideu et le retrute.ent d'u  nouvecu                          '
and cou eeuitaect.                                                                                                           personnel permettront de re-plir les premiers pontes  aacants.
Decemb.r 2, 1975                                                                                                               le 2 décerbre 1976



ANIEX/ANMX  3
Table Tableau 
Z Lks
ITURI LIVZSt0C  D8V APLN   flJOCT                                            PROJET DIVUOPPUT DE L - iAGE *N ITUII
AnLaI HIeatb cnd Peducti- Senie..                                            Sarvies de Seta  et de Peidmcttee Aniaies
DiaPeaitica cf Staff in Zoe                                                 Diseeitten du Peregeael pin. 1a   Zn..*
Pr_-Davlopmieantl  _--_____---_-__-_-_____ Tsariks     e __n __e _-_- __- ___- _____
Grade  Avnt le Devieoppaae 1                  2               3               4               5
haie Di.neasar.S Tahip                                                                                                                                               Diaoenacire  de SuS. Ste    de
mS£n *inYi 8L etor                                                                                                                                               Tu-rehip et de Kilenyl
Ansistace Veteriecriae                                  At.  ct           (1)          I V                             I              t t                       Aide vétériDaire
Infirater                                               tcf.             <2)          I              I                I               I               1          efleaier
Asaicteat Itfir-ier                                     Aide              (5)          5             4                 3              3                3         Aide-Inrirairr
CIerk                                                                     (1)                                                                                   Etployé
Sera Sru                                                                                                                                                             Zoee d Ieru
ZSue Chier                                              At. Vet.          -            I             1                 i              t                I         Chef de Sure
tDf .            (1)
Sure tufirsater (Acestaict)                             Inf.             <S)           i             i                 S              t                i         irriraier de ZSue (A1ie)
Seut-r Chiafd                                           Inf.              (4)         4              4                4               4               4         Cher, de Secteur
Diapec.ary/Dip  teitucier                               Inf.              (2)          4             6                10             10              10         Siapersire/mrir,uierr
Dicpeu..uyfAetacant Iafirietra                          Aide            (20)         19             18               17              16              l6         Sirpeneaire/Âuee  Sufirui rr
Sturcucu                                                                  (1)          tiiii                                                                    Ngaae
Cick S                                                                    <)           I             I                 I              t                I        Etepiyé
Office Mr.erger                                                          (t)           I             I                I               I               I         Mersager
W.tuh-u.                                                                  (t)          S             I                 t              S                I         Gardiru
Lehurerefi                                                               (2)          2              1                1               1               I          O.urieru
ZSue Getv                                                                                                                                                            Sera de Cati
ZSue Chief                                             Acct. VSt.        (1)          I              1                                t               I         Chef de Zoue
zSuc  IIfirraer (Asicteut)                               nf.              (1)          I             t                 t              i                S         tfirmier de Sure (Aide)
Serct.  Chi.fs                                          tI.              (3)           3             3                 3              3                3         Chef. de Secteur
Diepececry/Dip Itftrcieri                               Inf               (i          6              a                 9              9               9         Dispen.aire/Infirmi-er.
Sicpeusacy/Aa.icteci Sufietaera                        Aide              ">          20             18               16              13              13         Siepen.alre/Aide-ttrieru
Sucrera,                                                                 -             I             I                 I              t                I-    -  Maseaicier
Clerie                                                                    <t)          I             t                t               I                I        Etapicyda
Siffuce Measeunue                                                        (I)           t             I                 SSI                                       Mesueger
Wetuh-                                                                    (S)          I             I                 I              I                I         Gcrdieu
tee. ilucu                                                                                                                                                          Sure de urgeq
ZSuc  ChiaS                                             Asat. Vet.       -             i             i                                             t  i         rnrTWC30
zSue Itfit-ier (Aceicteet)                              tuf.             <1)           I             S                 I              I                          Icirriec de Sce  Aide)
clinfic Pharrcuy Sefiricicr-                            tuf.              (1)          I             I                 SI                                        IcCir6irrec  ù lu Piccr>eue     i3 l
CilIuu Asai.taut                                       A I               (2)           2             2                2               2                S        Asucutrut à 1  C1iuique
Seutue Chiefs                                           Inf.             (5)          5              5                5               5               5         Chefu de Seut-ur
Dtepeusecy/Dip icfice.ter                               Itf.             (3)          3              3                6               8               8         Slsperaire/tuficciere
Dicpeuae-y Aceictaut tnficatees                        Aide            (<1)          18             19               20              20              20         Diepe.sctre/iide-tcftrcieru
Clark.                                                                   (t)           I             I                t               I               t         Erpluyde
isuecr-                                                                               i              tt                                               t          Mgasaicie
tInfu   Stecceeger                                                                                                                                              Sieceeger
ictuheer                                                                 G1                                            iti                                       sardien
zur rioi/nAraGI                                                                                                                                                      Sure de ticha/Mahagi
zuu  Chief                                              Acct. Vet.       (<)           I             I                 t              t                t         tr c d   ce
Tlubchiu.   (Vet, A.st.)                                As.t.  Vet.      (1)           t             I                S               t                I        Te-hiuieu (Aud  Vétériucirc)
Suce tufiraiece (Ae,tiacun)                             Inf.             (3)           1             t                 1              i                1         Sufiruieru de Sure (Aidru)
CIitu/Phberc--y iritrut era                             tuf.             _            t                                                                          Srficierc Ph-rreciu/CIiniquu
Clincu Aceictarua                                      Aide              (3)          3              2                2               2               2         Aider ru Clirique
Secuer Chie f                                           If.              <6)          6              6                6               6               6         Chefs d  Secteur
Di.pec..ry/ Dip tufiIrrers                               nf.              (2)          4             7                8               8               8         DiSpe-rraire/Srdirierc
scictartnnt     eieuc                       Aide            (14)         14             14               14              16              14                       Aidcu-Sufirrtece
ti-er.,                                                                  (1)          1              1                        1               1       I         MEçiuyéc
Office Me-eseuru                                                         (t)           I             I                I               I               I         Meceesger
Wathb                                                                    (t                                          1 iIi                            i         Gcdi-r
S-eucrectaria  (Nocrth)                                 sec.             -            I              I                t               t               t         tRRTUY   (Nord)
Chirf de Sure                                          Acct. Vet.                        I                            i               i               i         Cher de ZSue
zSue Suitrier                                           Inf              -            t              t                I                               I         I5fi=ier de Suce
Cliniiu  Ph.ac  cItnfiemi                              tIf.             (4)          3              3                3               3               3         tcfiflierc Phcrauie/CLiciqu
Clinic Pherra-Y A-eietents                             Aidc              (5)          4              4                4               4               4         Aides Shria/Clir±qoe
Seutur Chifa                                            Inf.              (6)         6              6                6               6               6         Chefi de Seneurs
Ditp-e-ecy/DSp  Itfir.ies                               tuf.              (-)         7             il               17              25              25         iipeuaatre/Iufirrs
Aceictecua                                 Aide             (30)         28             27               26              26              26                      Aides
sti rece                                                                  <t)          I             I                 I              I                t        Mcgcairiec
Office Maacecger                                                          <-)          t             I                t               t               t         Mec.ager
Meecu/Cauperuer                                                           (I)          I             t                 I              t               t         Maruso/têericer
Wacuhuer                                                                  ('1          t             i                        1                       I           arrdier
La.brera                                                                  <t)          I             S                t               t               t         Ouvrier,
Seceeher i  1975                                                                                                      le  l-r décertbre I975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 7
ZAIRE
ITtIRI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT                     PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
flrowth of Cattle, Goats, Sheep Population             Croissance du Cheptel Dans Les Régions Traditionnelles
in the Traditional Areas                                        (Bovins-Chevres-Moutons)
A. Cattle/Bovins
Year/      Numbers (000)/         Z Charges in
nng-lee    Nombre de Têtes        Herd Numbers/
(en milliers)        Frais en % Par
Rapporjk au Nombre
de tetes
1955             288
1956             293                   f  1.6
1957             297                   f  1.4
1958             306                   ,  3.0
1959             309                        a 1.1
1960
1961
1962             308
1963             291                   -  2.2
1964             215                   - 25.7
1965             235                   f  8.9
1966             254                   f  7.8
1967             257                   f  1.6
1968             260                   f  1.3
1969             266                   ,  2.2
1970             270                   f  1.6
1971             276                   f  2.0
1972             280                   f  1.5
1973             284                   f  1.4
1974             287  (Est.)           f  1.4
1975             292  (Est.)           f 11.4
B. Goats, Sheep, Pigs ('OOO)/Chévres-Mautens-Porcs Cen milliers)
Year/           Goats/          Sheep/          Pigs/
Année           Chévres         Moutons         Porcs
1971      .       263             75             24
1972              290             75             19
1973              238             56             23
1974              308             82             38
December 2, 1975                                                         Le 2 décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
ZAIRE                                                                     Table/Tableau 8
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            PROJET  DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Ituri Cattle and Population Density                           Densite du Cheptel et de la Population en Ituri
by Collectivities 1974                                          par collectivité  en 1974
Area/        Densityr       No. of                               2
Population            Super icie    Densite         Cattle/           Cattle Density/ km
km            inh/km2       Nombre de         Densité diu Cheptel
Bovins             Bunia/km2 1/
ARU   Zaki                               70,023                1,108             69          31,009                30
Raliko                             27,047                1,455            19           8,290                 6
Kakwa                              27,246               1,099             25          12,400                12
Nyo                                 8,884                  232            38           6,585                28
Ofso                                7,955                  130            61           5,984                46
Lu                                 27,342                  579            47          27,129                46
Aluru                              20,133                  642            31          20,048                31
Ndo                               12,391                1,769              7              66                -
Sub-totaltotal partiel  201,021                  6,924            29         111,511                16
MA&AGI    Anghal                             84,867                   858            99           8,289                16
Djuko/Pandoro                    114,330                1,360             84          12,952                10
War/Palara                         34,891                  508            69           6,773                13
wa ongo 3                         38,826                   347           119           1,282                 4
Alv-Djuganda                       19,379                  960            20           9,750                10
Walendu-Watsi                      12,612                  715            18              280                1
Sub-total/total partiel 304,905                  4,748            64          39,326                 8
&JUGU     Waldndu Djabi                      59,291                   989            60           2,298                 2
Walendu Ditsi                      83,295                1,398            60           6,799                 5
Walendu - Tatsi                   38,611                   586            66           6,003                 10
Baniari                           31,535                2,052             15              74
Ndo-Okebo                         10,504                  194             54             248                 1
Mambisa                           15,765                   256            44             174                 1
Mabendi                             5,191                1,226             4               10                -
Bahema-Nord                       86,969)                                              6,645
Bahema - Badjere                  24,626)                 900 Est                      1,743
Bahema- Banywagi                  30.787)                                              5,777
Sub-total/ Sous total  386,574                  7,701                        29,767                 4
IRUMU     Babemo - Sud                       24,913                  623             40          10,047                16
Walendu - Bindi                   47,104                1,050             45          31,679                30
(Baboa) Bahema Bake               23,378                  199            117           6,621                33
Basiri                            14,328                  630             23           7,349                12
Mobalu                            17,132                  404             42          12,905                32
Andisoma                           17,286                  224            77           3,487                17
Bahema d'Kumu                     12,534                 n.a             n.a            n.a                 n.a
Babelele                          12,203                   363            37           9,464                26
(Walese)Walendu - Vonkutu         16,016                3,077              5           1,614                 1
Bahema- Boga                        5,917                  369            16           6,255                17
Bahema Mitego                       2,997                  277            il           1,124                 4
Bahema Tschabi                      3,991                  155            26          14,584                94
Sub-total/total partiel  197,799                  7,391                       105,130                 14
(w/o Bunia)
Total/ total    1,087,299                26,764             40         285,734                 1/
1/   See also Table 3.                                                         1/  Voir également Tableau 3.
Source:  Preparation Report                                                   Source:  Rapport de preparation
December 1, 1975                                                            le ler décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEt  3
Table/Tableau9
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Animal Health and Production Services                                          Services de Production et de Santé Animales
Distribution of Dips, Spray Races,                                            .',iatZibution des Bassins d'Immersion, des
Dispensaries, Stores and Dispensary                                            nouloirs d'Aapersion, des Dispensairés. des
HousinZ                                                       Magasins et Logements du Service Vétérinaire
No. of Cattle
Served By
Zone/         Sector/       Dispensary/        Dipping Tank/            Spray Race/          Dispensary/        House/        Store/    Dispensary/
Zone          Secteur       Dispensaire   Bassin d'Immersion  Couloir d'Aspersion   Dispensaire    Logement    Magasin                     Nombre de
Bovins Traités
Par le Dispensaie
ARU                                                                                                                             1 (c)
ARU                                                                                                               1 (c)
Opima                   1 (r)                                         1              1                              4,800
Otse                     1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          4,050
Edyofe                  l (c)                                         1 (c)          1 (c)                          3,000
N'DERI                                                                                                            1 (c)
N'Deri                   i1                                                          1                              5,700
Anyara                   11                                                          1                               6,020
Atsinia                  11                                                          1 (c)                          5,100
Oria                     1                                            1              1                              3,900
Adja                     i (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          4,200
Robu Z.                  1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          3,500
YUKU                                                                                                              1 (c)
Aranga                   1 (r)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          4,900
Dibwa                    1                                            1              1                              4,200
Binga                    1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          4,000
Ambudio
Adjoigny                 1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                           3,700
Ameri                    1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          3,900
Essebi                   1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          5,200
Adravu                   1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          3,350
MADO                                                                                1                             1 (c)
Mado                     1                                            l (c)          1 (c)                          6,000
oli                      1 (c)                                        1 (c)          l (c)                          3,100
Robu K.                  1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          2,850
Kumuru                   l (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          6,200
Rumu                     1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          5,500
ADRANrA                                                                                                           1 (c)
Terecka                 l                                             1              1                              6,200
Adranga                  1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          4,300
Zamba                   1 (c)                                         1 (c)          1 (c)                          3,500
Mada                     i (c)                                        1 (c)          l (c)                          4,500
NIOKA
Nioka                                                                                              i (c)
Muchapa                                                                                             i (c)
Zaa                     l                                             1              1 (c)                          2,500
Djupaliri                1                                            1 (c)          1 (c)          1 (c)           1,300
N 'GOTE
N'Gote                   1 (r)                                        1              1                              2,400
Mont Rona                l                                            l              1                              2,600
Mont Ota                 l (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          1,300
DJALAS-
SIGA          Dialassiga               I                      i (c)                 1              l              1 (c)              700
Ambissi                  1                                            1              i (c)                          4,600
M'biki                   1 (c)                                        i (c)          i (c)                          4,600
NYAMBERE                                                                                                          i (c)
Awisi                    l                                            1              1                              3,000
Kambitatu                1 (r)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          2,100
Djegu                    1 (r)                                        1 ) 1       (1 (c)                            2,600
MAHAGI                                                                                                            l. (c)
Djunpagoua
Sa                      1                                             1              1                              2,900
Ora                      1 (r)                                        l (c)          1 (c)2,n
Kabassa                  1 (c)                                        1 (c)          1 (c)                          4.000
Mahagi Port                                                           1 (c)          1                              1,300
Atiko                                                                 i (c)          1                              1,000



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 9
Page 2
No. of Cattle
Served By
Zone/ I      sector/      Oispensary/        Dlipping Tank!          Spray Race!       Dispensary/    flouse!         store!    DispensarY/
Zone         Secteur      Dispensaire  Bassin d'Immerston  Couloir d'Aspersion  Dispensaire  Logement                Magasin      Nombre de
Bovins Trait
Par le Diepensaie
N'JE                                                                                                       1 (c)
N'NJe                                         1 (c)               1                                             900
Bule                   1                                          1             1 (c)                        1,800
Njaudha                                      1 (c)                1 (c)         1 (c)                        1,250
Fataki                 1 c)                            (          1             1 (c)                        3,800
BlUBA                                                                                                      1 (c)
Buba                   1 (c)                                      1             1 (c)                        2,700
Kwendruma                                     1 (c)               1                                             960
Libi                   1 (c)                                      1             1                            2,300
Sumbuso                1 c)                            (          1                  (c)                     1,700
BLUKWA                                                                                                     1 (c)
Blukwa                 1 (c)                                      1 (c)         1 (c)                        2,850
Masambuku              1 (c)                                      i (c)         i (c)                         2,500
Tchumbu                                      1 c)                  (c1 (c)                                   1,000
TAMBAKI                                                                                                    i (c)
Tambaki                1                                          1 (c)         1 (c)                        5,600
Ezekere                1 (c)                                      1 (c)         1 (c)                        3,500
Kulu                   1 (c)                                      i (c)
NIZI                                                                                                       i <c)
Nizi                                          1 (c)               1 (c)                                         800
Niangaray                                     1 (c)               1 (c)         i (c)                           850
TRUMU                                                                                                                    i (c)
BUIDANA                                                                                                    1 (c)
Budana                 1                                                        1 1                          2,200
Lengabo                1 (c)                                      i (c)         1 (c)                         2,200
Kunda                  1 (c)                                      i < (      c1 (c)                          3,200
IRUMUJ                                                                                                     1 (c)
lrumu                  1                                          1             I                            1,500
Kadanza                1 (c)                                                    1 (c)                         5,000
Bogota                 1                                                        i                             6,000
Peleka                 1 (c)                                                    1                             4,230
Komanda                                       1 (c)               1                                             800
IRUMfU       N'DENGUE
N'dengue               1 (r)                                      i             1             i (c)           6,400
Barazana               1 (c)                                      i (c)         1 (c)                        5,700
Mazanguina             1 (c)                                      i (c)         1 (c)                         7,500
N'gadzo                1                                          1             1                            5,800
MWANGA
Mwanga                 i (r)                                      1             1             i (c)           2,500
GETY                                                                                                                       (c)
GETY                                                                                                       1 (c)
Munobi                 1                                          1             1                            5,200
Badzanga               l                                          1             1                            3,900
Kumatsi                1                                          1             1                            5,300
Nyabiri                1                                          1             l                            5,300
BOGA                                                                                                       1 (c)
Boga                   1                                          1             1                            3,600
Kumatsi                1                                          1             1                            6,000
Mitego                 l (c)                                      1 (c)         1 (c)                        4,500
Nyanzigue                                     i (c)               i (c)                                      1,500
Kasenyi                                      1 (c)                i (c)                                        500
BOGORO                                                                                                     i (c)
Bogoro                 1                                          i             1 (c)                        7,200
Soke                   1                                         l              1                            3,500
Songolo                1 (r)                                     l              1 (c)                        7,200
Kagaba                 1 (c)                                      1             1 (c)                        3,500
(c) -  to be constructed.                                              (c) =  'a construire.
(v) -  major repairs.                                                  (v) -  reparations majeures.
(r) -  To be repaired.                                                 (r) -  a'réparer
Sammaryt                                                                Resume:
Existing/ en place                        27                     -                   39            30            -
Repair/ a réparer                          9                     -                   -             -
Construct/ à construire                   36                   12                    45            50            26
Total                                     72                    12                   84            80            26
November 1976                                                           le novembre 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               PROJET DE DEVELOPPMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Financing of Revolving Furd for DruRs  Inoculants  Di1D  1/                          Financement du Fonds Renouvelable Pour Médicaments. Vaccins
(Z'000)                                                                         liarsion  1/
(en milliers de zaires)
-V-------------   - Year/Année --------------
1            2          3            4             S          Total
Medicines Revolving Fund  j/                                                                                                Fonds Renouvelable Pour Médicaments l/
Helminthics - Cattle  2/                       6.7           11.7        16.7         21.7         30.0        86.8   Vermifuges - bétail 2/
Veterinary Medicines - Cattle  3/               5.0           8.3        15.0         21.7         28.4        78.4   Medicaments vétérinaires - bétail 3/
Trypanocidal Drugs  4/                          1.7           5.0         6.7          7.5          8.3        29.2   Médicaments trypanocides 4/
Minerals and Salt                               6.7          16.7        26.7         40.0         56.7       146.8   Minéraux et sel
Medicines - Goats, Sheep, Pigs                  0.8           1.6         3.3          6.6         13.1        25.4   Médicaments - chèvres, moutons, porcs
Medicines - Poultry, Dogs, etc.                 3.2           4.0         4.8          5.6          6.4        24.0   Médicaments - volaille, chiens, etc.
Stocking-up                                    3.2            3.2          -            _           -           6.4   Approvisionnement
Total                                         27.3           50.5        73.2        103.1        142.9       397.0   Total
Covernment/IDA Contribution                   27.3           26.4        25.9         29.9         39.8       149.3   Contribution  du Couvernemet/fll
Farner Contribution 5/                           -           24.1        47.3         73,2        103.1       247.7   Contribution des éleveurs 5/
Dippins Costa - Revolving Fund                                                                                              Frais d'Issaersion - Fonds Renouvelable
Cattle lios. dipped per week at End                                                                                    Nombre de bétail immersé par sesaine à la
Year ('000)                                90           138         191           250          280                     fin de l'année  (en milliers)
Dipping Costs (Z)   6/                         67           150         217          285          359       1,078      Frais d'immersion 6/
Suggested Annual Dipping Fee                                                                                           Redevance annuelle d'imersion suggérée y
Including 15% Contingency Element (k)7?  60              60          60           150          150         150         compris 15% provisions pour imprévus (K) 7/
Government Contribution Z ('000)               67           104         147          188           39         545      Contribution du gouvernement (an milliers de  attes)
Farmer Contribution Less 15% Contingency                                                                               Contribution des éleveurs moins 15% provisions
Element in Fee Z ('000) 5/                 -             46          70            97          320         533         pour imprévus sous forme de redevance 5/
(an milliers de zaires)
lotal Coats Dims and Medicines                                                                                              Total Frais d'Inmersions et IMédicments
Government Contribution for Dips and                                                                                   Contribution du gouvernement pour isersions
Medicines                                  94.3          130.4       172.9        217.9         78.8       694.3       et médicaments
Farmer Contribution for DipS                                                                                           Contribution des éleveurs pour imersionm
and Medicines                              '-             70.1       117.3        170.2        423.1       780.7       et médicaments
Total                                          94.3         200.5       290.2        388.1        501.9    1.475.0   Total
1/  Excluding Government paid compulsory Anthrax program.  Projected    1/  Programme obligatoire d'Anthrax subventionné par le
cattle numbers treated (Table 5).                                              gouvernement non-compris. Nombre de bétail prévu déij  traité (Tableau 5).
2/  Costs per dose Devonix Z 1.50 Thibenzole Z 1.00 Hexachlorethane           2/  Coats par dose: Devonix 1,50 zaires, Thibensl 1,00 zaires,
Z 0.14.                                                                       Hexachlorethane 0,14 zaires.
3/  For example, Brucellocis Z 0.25  Penicillin, Streptomycin Z 0.79    3/  Par exemple, Brucellose 0,25 zaires, Pénicilline, Streptomycine
per dose.                                                                     0,79 zaires par dose.
4/  Z 0.33 per dose, Antracide/Berenyl.                                       4/  0,33 zaires par dose, Anthracide/Berenyl.
5/  For this exercise farmers contribution is credited in following           5/  Pour cet exercice la contribution des éleveurs est imnputée a l'année
year since dipping and veterinary materials will be required to               suivante car l'équipement vétérinaire et d'immersion doit être  acheté
be purchased well in advance of their use.  Charges however would              bien à l'avance de son emploi.  Toutefois, les redevances seront dues
be made as soon as dipping commenced.                                          oh l'immersion comsencera.
6/  Asuntol Z 15 per kg.                                                      6/  Asuntol 15 zaires le kg.
7/  Z 1.28 per head for chemical plus 15% = Z 1.47 say Z 1.50 per head. 7/  1,28 zdires par tate pour produits chimique5plus 15% - 1,47 zaires,
Subsidized for first three years.  Fees would have to be adjusted              soit   1,50 zaires par tête.  Subventionnée les trois premières
if costa changed.                                                             années.  Les redevances devront être ajustées suivant les changements
des cout s
July 21, 1976                                                                  le 21 juillet 1976



AéNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau Il
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                              PROSET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
AnisaI Haalth and Production Services                               Services de Produ.ction et de  aS-t Anim- les
Suggested DePloysent of Infirmiers                              Répartition suggérée des infirmiers en relation
in Relation to Siting of Dips                                   avar la localisation des bassins d'limmersion
Groups nf dips in a given diameter circle                             Nqmbre de bassins d'immersion dans un diamntre donné
------------------------Zone------------------------
Na. of dipa in Croup/
Nombre de bains en groupes
Irumu
Dias.ter of circle                                                         Gety                       Diamètre de la surface où
enclosing dips km                      Arn       Mahagi       DJugu        Xisenyl           Total   se trouvent les bains
20 km                           4 f4   3 f 3  f4         3,13          5                  29          20 km
18 km                           6 ,3          -            -           4                  13          18 km
16 km                              -          -            3           4                   7          16 km
14 km                              4          -          2 ,1 2        -                   a          14 km
12 km                              -          2            -           4                   6          12 km
l a km or les.                  2,f2          2            -         3 f4                 13          10 km  ou moins
Iolated dips                             1        2            3            2                  8    Bains isolés
Total No. nf dips                        26       16            16          26                  84    Total des bains
No. of iroups                              9       7             6           8                  30    Nombre de groupes
Estimated No. of cattle <1980)          137       47             37        128                 349    Estimation du nombre de bovins (l980)
Estimated No. nf sheep, goats.                                                                        Estimation du ncabre de moutons,
pigs (1974)                        202       66            86         61                 415        chèvres et porcs (1974)
Eztimated No. of cattle                                                                               Estimation du nombre d'éleveurs
farmers ('000)                     8.9      3.0           3,0        3.7                18.6       (<n milliers)
Estimated No. nf stock                                                                                Estimation du nombre de propriétaires
owners ('000) 1/                  14.4      4.5           4.5        6.6                30.0        de bétail
tLtimated total No. nf                                                                                Estimation du no-bre total
formers (1974)                    33.7    42.7           64.3       34.6               175.3        -"xploitants
Suggested No. of infirmiers                                                                           Nombre envisagé d'infirmiers dans
ot dispensaries (Year 5) 2/         25        8             8         20                 61.0       les dispensaires (5ème année)
(Present No.) ('000)                    -         (2)            (3)      (3)                 (8)    (Nombre actuel on milliers)
Estimated No. of cattle/                                                                              Estimation du nombre de bovins par
infirmier at dispensaries                                                                           infirmier dans les dispensaires
(Year 5)                          5.5      5.8            4.6        6.4                 5.7        (5ème année)
Other Terhbical Staff in Zones                                                                        Autre personnel technique dans les
(Year 5)                                                                                            annes (Sème année)
Assistant veterinarians                    1       2             1           3                   7   Aides vétérinaires
Zone b cinic infirmiers                   4        2             2           2                  10    Infirmiers de clinique et de .o.e
Sector infirmiers                         6        6            5            7                  24    Infirmiers de secteur
No. af cattle ('000) per ane                                                                          Nombre de bovins (on milliers) par
techaical staff                    3.8      2.8          2.3         4.0                 3.5        technicien de ane
No. of stock awnera ('000) per                                                                        Nombre de propridtaireS de bétail
zone technical staff               0.4      0.3          0.3         0.2                 0.3        par technicien de anme
Total No. of farmera ('000) per                                                                       Total du nombre d'éleveurs (en milliers)
znme technical staff               0.9      2.5          4,0         1.1                 1.7        par technicien de cone
Alternative Staffing of Infirmiers                                                                    Personnel tournant d'infirmiers
at Diapensaries Based on                                                                            dans les dispensaires, basé
Croups                              14        8            8          12                  42        piar 2rupes
No. of cattle per infirmier                                                                            Nombre de bovins par infirmier la
in Year 5 ('000)                     9        6            6          10                 8.3       Sèe année (en milliers)
Note:   See para 55 for explanation Of distribution                  Note:  Voir le paragraphe 55 pour les explications concernant
nf infirmiers.                                                      la répartition de. infirmiers.,
Il  Mission estimate of all stock oaners excluding poultry           1/  Estimation fsite par 1a mission de propriétaires de bétail,
and r-bbits.  Cattle auners  18,600-                                 les propriétaires de volaille et de lapins non-compris.
2/  Based on 6,000 cattle per infirmier in Yest 5, plus lOt              Propriétaires de bovins - 18.600
increase in staff numbers for leave, sickness, etc. with   2/  Le chiffre est basé sur 6.000 bovins par infirmier à l'année 5
modifications for Djugu uhere 2 extra infirmiers are                 plus une augmentation de 107. dans le nombre de personnel pour
included ta deal with small stock and 6,500 animols have             les congés locaux, les congés de maladie, etc., avec des
been used for Irumu ttake inta  account the omaller                  modifications pour Dijugu  b 2 infirmiers supplémentaires sont
number of stsck and better grouping af dips.                         inclus pour s'occuper d'un petit bétail; 6.500 têtes ont été
comptées pour Irumu pour prendre en considération un nombre
moins important de bétail et une neilleure disposition des
bassins d'irmersion.
March 8, 1976                                                        le 8 noar 1976



ITURI LIVI!STOCK EVIRVLPO9ENT PR0JECT                   POJET lDE DIEV.ELOPPMENET DE 7.'EL£1104E EN 151e3
Vneeinar  anAAntrul Eudunion  ervies  Srvîcs TRartortotor d  Prouctin Anmal
uriel    CoAi Par l.int          i         2        3         4         S     Total Années       Dénia.       Dévia.
1 -5           Total
IS0R0T!W_T _ÇORYR                                                                                                                                                             CATRIGRIE D INVEITIOODIRNT
H..cioo and Co..atrsrtioe                                                                                                                                                     tononta et Tracana Monta
Re..o.atio. nESno  Staff Doua ire                  Nu.              -               -       23.0       -         -        -          23.0             6.5 SRevro  ana logecete pos  la porannel prinoIpal
IoRie,ier Ro.aea Conatronlino                      Na.              7.3            -        73.0    146.0    146.0        -         365.0           105.2             dC..altartioe an  .atnn  pa. ....          iimir
Totiena  Dosan...  Ritpair                         ON.              0.5             3.0     10.0       -         -        -          15 ô4.a.                       28    Rparoado asntpos-o   nt.lr
Dippio5-Taeka ana Yarda Co...t-sn...               Na.              9.5             -       57.0    142.5    142.5        -         342.0           147.5           43    C..oatentioo ba..aina ainraton  et
1iajot Repaie                                   Do.              3,0             -       27.0       -         -        -          27.0            12.4           46          e6pa..atino   ajan
Nient Rapat                                     No               5.0           13.5       -         -        -         -          13 3             s.s           41          riparatinea minas..e.
SpRay tante M.d Yarda                              No.              3.0             -        6.0      12.0     10.0       -          36.0            16.6           46    Coalois d'aaparcioa
Diapantaro  .o. trstioe                            No.              3.0            6.0      30.0      42.0     57.0       -          35.0            37.8           28    Cocuit-nine a. diapa..aaita
Niant Repaire                                   Do               0.1           12.5       3.5       3.5      -         -          19.5             5.            26          rlparacine  moro
Oaadqnartera Otora/Workakopo                       Sa.             26.5           26.5                                    - -26.5                     4.0           28      daaitcelaea  aiégo
Zone Store                                          N.              2.8           14.0       -         --                            14.0             4.0          De     !aaia    rs
lar.  _rnSa-                                       No.               0 9                     9.0       9.9                           18 9             5.3           la    mgDiagal   de aaotonr
REeoa..ion BSoda OfRico (joui, topait rolit)                       62.0           62.0       -         -62.0                                         17.4           28    Aggraraiata,at du huraas a. Boom  (y onmprit réparatioe  aiataetaa)
Watte, Elsoitrtity. A.,o.a HIQ                                      Û,45            4.5      .                   -                    4.5             1.             3      a,  lniita,   aek  a    lli
144.0    238.5    353.9    363.5    __          1.101.9
VtSICllLES RT M4ATURIRS
Station Wg.gn  4-W6eol Dnivo                       Do..I                   13.0   53.             -              -                   13.0             8.8           6/      eeo-.goes-ert
Log ISan  Base 4.60001 Drive                       Do.              12.0           72.0      -        12.0 9/  60.0 0/   .          144.0           116.1            82    Camion....  toa-t rr
SuaiS Cèr or Pins-Dp                               No.              5.5           49.5      11.0       -       44.0 §I   3. 5 QI 110.0               77.0           70    Patter Voitaro  snmtoa
to-y                                               Do.              15.0           30.0     15.0       -         -       30.0 5/     75.0            50.2            67    Casino
Dot-r Bikaa                                        Na.               0.6            4.9      3.0                 4.8 QI   3.0 QI    15.6              12.8           82    eatnoyelieea.
Sinynlea                                           On.              0.13           11.4      -              -         -              11.4             4.9           43   Bioyalotina
Ootorisary Eqnip-tao  HQ I/                                        I 4.3          10.0       4.3                          .          14.3            10.4           fl    Eqnipaani vétérinalre.aidie Q
Zona Il                                                          2.0            5.0       5.0                                      W    1.         7.3           7n            . en   2/
Btan.~ il                                        .               1.4           23.4       6.5       -        -         -          29.9             2.2           73           ..acteor 3/
Diap.aaary A/                                                    2.9             7.7      4.8       6.0       5.3      -          23.8            17.4           n3            ditpa..aaot  4/
Rane P-pa  Ioeîsdieg Intlaî                         N..              o.6            4.0      4.0                          - -8.0                       7.0           67    Pompon b ea  y  -aprîaieil*ROt
Hoté Sprayra                                       Do.              Q 15            1.7      1.7       5.2       -        -4.6                         3.8          -83    paIvériaatasra à mate
Voektlsnp Eqaipsatt 0lQ                                              5.0            5.0       .        .                              5.0              4.2           84    Matériel Pove 1' eteliet du alieg
Radio                                                              34.0            34.0      .                                        34.0            24.8           73    Radin
Vehinie spa-  Petit à/1                                                            42.0      .                                       42.0            30.7            73'    gtnt?t   -tt?4           *h±11es
ffRino  nrnitnrr ana Equipn-n                                                      6.5     3Jj               ___                      9.7           --- L.4          56r-                               .barenon
32O0     .jQ       19.2    114,1    3.5L    .5S39                »8.6.            70
LriOs1T0GKIQ.!Qo i                                                                                                                                                            ARMIRLSATION DR t' gLEVAGE
tngsm   ced irate Senud 6/                                           .0.5                    1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0         4.5             2.8           63     Smala do sograai...a.
D-aRratnne Melerale                                                                 1.4      1.6       1.6       1.        1.6        805.2                         Et    maatriau  do édpQn4tt.çiiot
Pnoning . D-.aetranioo                                              .                       1.6       1.6       1.'6      1.6        6.4              4.2           65    cîBet-  -  àntria
Credit tnt PFomera I/                                                .                                32.4      12.4   ...2..       ILL,.(          ..30             .12   Crédit pou lo  drvot
2.1      4.2      36.6      36.6    _M_z3.      iLâe-Q          M.A..           .34â
Tnta1                                                                             016.1    31.l.2    411.7     nlJ.42     77-     tillA1                             -     Total
Pornigo Exnhage                                                                   277.1    107.2    156.5    232.0        46.5                       839.3           46   Denier
Il  Raponncaat and nappIY oR  -ai-a  tqstpa.et includin, ninrn..n.pn.., kaanat/imînoo   rapoiinaan  de -aréia.o dîiera y tomptia  irt on    arls
arnier.drya-, att.                                                                        ntrintoa,atnr 
2/  Preea... re rfrigorator. nlnroncpo,    are.tir. teplarenet of nId nqsipaa.t                  V     la2 én  rifrogorentse, mi-.oa.ope, boa...let,  tEc , emeplaturnt ae vinn matitiano
ear h mc entlina dn driera..naabgîaor   eatsot
Il  Refrigarotor. min..a.op.,aroa,naîa   Irr   sinianpsn.Nrita,    3/ R0ftigoeataar. iorn....opn.,crtna   a lla  mitit, mrtérinl de ahitrceie, S iaa
-pll.ng oqaip.ent                                                                                matéri.l den.hantillo..ago
4/  Syeisganree.dlt., mitoacrginal eqaipa..t. Betdie...aa. aapit,R matteai,                      4a/  Saringun,   igiaa  minira, matériel dt chsirratie.  Brdi .aa, aa tériaan d'dnhattilloaa.,
-triainstte  o-  .cacui... cnd holding canaplen.                                          seitéa do réfrigoratino pose  anetor pose anhannill.na.
Il  25% oR cala. vthirlec psr..baaed in Rient yaa.                                               5/  2512 aria valonean d    ohialetarbtés la pr-fèire rondo.
6/  Sitoan-th.t tond i I pet kg, 3 rn 5 kg par henae.l  Senrad   eyoacr                                                               aio   ek      aio   o3dSla     'nn
il  Proda to eatablo.h a anull penjent tendifaéfrediattaaeaRrn-no                                 /Pndpur'Ebl Nnidnplit                        Onnadf-trédit pose prOr   aun -leonu-d  by
imenaana  sh ca Rftting, emIl baitdtnc, torpcnvd stock, nqipma.tr. lev.g-rerardpona   o   sdlitatiota   learo. -éiten   taio-                                  00 ptrn,priabtiaOO
ted, maror, cte.  Tha esallantcd opteation o  the Racé  -mId bo asbiae                         décelopp-.en  as thepte.I  équip-an.  reoe  do lég'mal...a..  ta,  i.  Ina pronadatta
enapoulo  proednrra by I86.                                                               t'ebinenn   nje g-aion do Casé eraint -nmie  a 1approbatino  d. l'IDA.
9/  Raplan-eat aR onhine.l..                                                                         Reaplaeannn  de. vnlioitc.I
NOtE-  Tht levri oR firet y-a  nopoodit~   ..r.aaun. rhnt rh- Pen1cnt Rn f.ly craffeud           NOTE'  Le nivea  dea dépn-aa. de l  prt         -anée. ....n .qae le peu.  ..Etr tpl8ite~ àqsipn
Jone 17, 1976                                                                                    la 17 Juin 1976



j1LU~~~~~~~1                            Z~~~AIOi
_Th ILI1Y7TO4LK4    OP090NT PROJEtS                                           90JE7 DEt DOEVEtPP0009  DE L'EGrEVAIE EN 5100                                      a5s0Rif
Ostarieae  ard Animal PrdninService.evcs.t.ierae   xredcird rl
(0)                                                                                   (Z)
grade/saleire ~Avant te           i            2                       4            5           o
PreJant Os..ager (iptic   a      yara) - /                          30,000              -            50,000      50.000       50,000      50,000 2/   3,250         5,200       rntn  du projet  (empare recrté à L'trngr  e  S praitea  nnes
Daprty Peejeet Manager (Cntnteparr  2                       (AI)    2,750              2,750          2,750       2,700        3,250       3,250 2/      -           -        Diraetsnradjniet du prajaioreei  ntni
Eeirriteroan  <tapenrinte)                        ~~~~~~       ~      ~      ~~~~45,000  - 40,300  45,000    45,000      45.000      45,000         -        06tteixer  .(expert rtet          i'trene
Veeri_trian  Cnnt,tSpeet td Omiti                           (AI)    2,500               --                          -          2,500       2,500        2,500       2,500     Vtrnra(psrsneee  retînmeS)
Animai Pendurriet Ofittat (Sepateiate)            ~~~45,000            -            30,000      45,000       45,000      45,000       15,000        -                         hnntnxxiansgé de 1. ptintr    niet   epr  recrtéti 1à  ccxî.ger)
Animai Preductixe.    etrpr                                 (Ai)    2,500               --                         -            -          2,500       2,500        2,500    F ..txie...etstrrhsrgé de la pend.untixu an- al  (prrenlnatai
Anima   rdrix    nitc                                                1,225              --                        1,225        2,432       2,450       2,450        2,450    Asi          h at  iegé de Sa prdtimenals
Oni1dirg Spenieliet (Epetriste)                                    34,8000                           17.400      34,000       07,400        -            -           -        Spénialiets dn biti,.tan     P-t (speirrrtiti 1l'ittrnger)
Retruatun Spsrisitai(Eapat,iatr)                              45,50-                            34,000    43,500       43,500        8,700         -           -        Sein  de  àugtetx              sprreri       'rnir
Eminatine letiensar(Radix)                                       925              -460                         925         925          925         925         925    Iriatrde  ueesrx    taitoe 
Sltarter IP, Ilener                                         IrE        925             1,030          1,050       2.050        1.050       1.050        1,050      tOSO0    I-aPxt-nr   dsa e±xrrhia
Abatinir InpnnsEt. Asate.  1,225                                                      2,450           2,450       2,450        2,450       2,450       2,450        2,430     iseinea    lecr
Ab.teirrAeitrt                                              tri        925            2,775           1,050       1,050        2,770       2,7795        .7 22,775            Anierent  d-caerer
HQ t1iait phr,t-atina                                  e.Aat.                         -               -                   -                             1    ,25    0,22      TrSine   de I taP'- "har i  i  a1iiniqus du aiRes
HI ClOuEr plhetrey-SrreOOfin-ra                       Ver, dette.  1,225              1,225           2,225       1,205        1,225       1,225       1,22         1,225    Fle..tie..eiresrhargés  des. àhsaiemi m    A le1cinique du siêga
liq tj~itri  p4ar tsy Assstet                               Of         925            0,325           0,525       3,350        5,530       5.550       4,0620       4,025    Aes iatente  dc la phermart  A. le etteiqe  de cite
Hl' ClAiti P, armAnt    1               Aidesdd                        575             2,075          2,875       1,725        1,725       1,725        1,725       1,725    Aidts de taàr i    S. ta1ciaique du aitea
04 Cîluin, _ieat  ltcr_at925                                                             925            925          925       1,050       1,050        1.050       1,0850     caane  de la ph-a.ait à le utiniqu  du eitgr
inasultane (Pastere)                              ~~~~~~~             ~       ~      ~     ~ ~~~17,400  --  17,400  -      -            -           .         xsunr   (pâccregs)
Dinet- cf A~xertn/let   Optitî43,500                                                    -            43,500      43,500      43,500       43,500         -           -         ieterde  'diiaaixfxrrlrand
Dire, e  cf  Adnilirrti CPiana           txn .spart    Ai lu1        1 ,000             -                          -            -          1,090       1,090       1,090      Ditracteur deidsiitaiuiatx nerprii
AA.,srann   Setee    Aruc/ ete)                2   m1      0500675                              075         040        860          àii         860          860     Aa.isia-  a1iisrat-          trpaitr/esfti
AmuaaivAsis tat  (P.nurn.ctOtte)                A. 1 a       075              -435                        675          075         475        675          675    Adeitiaxe    aîiert    (Passa.rier de  ané/aaie
d,iiraisAt-ixtant (irene  Audit)               Agd Ou       1, 090             -                750       1,090       1,020        1,090       1,090       0,090    Asaistxat s0ieietretid    ceri  d.a nennk.a
Oarirs   rd1                                 Ag u  2         060            5,750           2.345       2,500        1: 2,0      0,500       1,720        1,720     OSrrtatir, grade I
Typisie/Cterkt/Srnretariea                          ~~~~            ~~~~~~        ~~670  2,0229  265  2,70   7,300       2,700        0,700       7,025     Oxtéurphsielyd/endxsa
tie_ke AtnnsPa ee                                                      675              075           1,10        1,350        t,350       1,350       t350         1,35      Inpndtnesîe/ssra
Otarie Sixtes Osrxrds                               ~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~~~675  675  1,100  1,350  1,350  1,350        1,950       0,350    Emplyée d-attvadrs magasine
blethanttet/Ofxris Sp priatiat (Optit)34,800                                      -            24,500       26,100        -            -           -           -        Openisiieta antnnqxe   eépmretiue  (expatrié)
risrhanin                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ai Bn i  1,00     -               05        100           ,90         ,00         1,09        1,090      lritu
Areisiant raniamins                                   ~~~~            ~        ~       ~~~~      ~          ~~~575  -  06  1,O  115'0  0,:'550  1,:150  1,150    Aidan - . mdaixtsr
Jueine Exnhanira/Oresanrx                           ~~~~             ~        ~      ~~~~       ~~~~~~400     750  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200     1,200    Apprettie     ieiica-ieaet
Dti'.t.                                             ~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~575  2,910  4,750   0,050        0,050       0,050        0,050       8,030    Chauffenra
Iriar   Asirai                                                         400                              500          000         000         000          000         000    Aide.a t,ufrnta
"'rPair/nxe                                                            575                    1,15    i,O         1,15         110   0,150       1,15      0 1,15       0a    Meujir. (auc
OdEf   Seaeir/lanxr/Lbr-                                               400             2,450          2,4550      2,14550      2,450       2,4500      2,4500       5,450    efea.      r/ad../uvon
Admini errattne/Suppiir, Outrer          4o Ma 1~~A    1.0                              0091,090                 100         1,090        109         1,00      rnraniedinarifinn  ur
tireRa                                               670            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   1,075  1,350  1,350      1350         1350        1,350    Espîxy.. de  nra
rei_a                                                                 -575              -               425         575          575         575          575         575    ch-££.-u
arum   axé tieas   Q Staff                                                           35,455        289,580    355,285    300,460    251,850    119,SéS            58,415       rexntdte Sièg-e de Bnria et da Ki.tah...
Vsteirin(Suris                                                       250                              1 t875      2,500        2,500       2,50`       250          2,00        dérinir
Aeinan  nt tnaian                                            1.22              4,9000          6,35          575       0575         0,575       0,575       0.375    Aide . Vèiitot
Itfintsr                                                               90            44,4400         4b9,0835    40125       72,15        0025        0,75        0707         nfr-a
Aid  Iiene                                                             575           662,5           64,975      62,100       50,000      50,450      50,050       50,50      Aide  nime
Oteernan                                              (~~      ~     ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~       ~~~~~75  2025  3,075  3,375  3,375  3,375  555    355       txnite
nlcris                                              ~~~~            ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~       ~~675  3,375  3,375  3,375  3,375  33575  3,375  3,375    e1plxyé  de burexu
Offi-mlssms                                                            400            2       2,00    3000        2,000        2,000       2,000       2,000        2,000   MCrassier
axexhee                                                                400             2,'00'0        2,000       2,000        2,0000      2.000       2,000        2,090     Curdirue
tsaan/îxrpnurar                                                                      -            '000      s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~57  -5s  575  575        575       tgrmruer
irSarera                                             ~~~~            ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~400  1,00 1.00   000 00                  00          00       urir
128,525        135,120    144,850       155,150     160.190    169,725    169,7255
OreienFa-   (6-fa.Rte   42_7 Sa 187 nre)Centre Odcdriiatre  (t Csntirsei.427 h. 187 nn-i-
Tefirniera                                          ~~~~            ~~~~~~~                            ~     ~            ~           ~     ~     ~ ~ ~~~~925  1,050  -  ---  nimer
AId  Orimrr575                                                                         2,30            -           -            -           ---                               Aide   rielr
Lsbnrr/xdet(rcsrly psid by nxlt-ie itîiy)                              400           12,9000                                                                                   nreapar   (te pluyaet peyée par la rtlrn_ivini)
Weet_h_                                                                400     -        -             2.400       2.400        240       2.402.00                   2.400    Gardi.t.
t6O950          2,400       2,400        2,400       2,400        2,400       2,400
TOTAL PORSOOSNNE  COlTS                                                             1800930         4700        5235         5012         1930       2,25        230,946-   COUT TOTAL EN PERSONNEL
t!  f clatira iertnde mixer  pplinebla  Assit atiar,eera Y         ler, P.sfeits atcat,tif. r  taar                  iiid            1/  Os  satairea  . tdnpettxte       . iaénhirte:   la aa dir   Or Su, tinriuapéitile, i'atlen..niat apirir, 
2!  Erpt. sa  .     ee  ite.t  c  fOre  rîh-  Ysses thretri  a   &0uyipanity lu Ecerti y-u.tdsetesétts                                                                  
lairtea'ta itka  --e  et cd cf ehîrd  Dsr                                                                                 0    i,ertru   dx Prar   eet  -té        aere- pr-rte  S priessre:tltuttneauxi   rviies
rspsritéd. drmatr.A la. Cie. del   rOim    riel   sen                          aaipedal   eAe
February 9, 1977                                                                                                                      te 9 février 1977






UITRE
I111RI 110820STOEVLP5IE   83                       PROJET DE  M                                  IIOPEXT  Et'EERN  8 I11E
eaaioCcct.                                 Couict!    alitto
laicre                                         total         Ecre~~~~~~F ige  Forigit
-----------                 Vase/ -Tsars-----Y                    1-5/    Etbg/ iaane
Avntl          1         2         3         4          3       Total          fivise       Deis
OPERAUMRG fl1EENll                                                                                                                                                     tOUTS_0'EIIPLIITATTiS
IFPIVI.ç9l(Attox  3, Table 13)                                                                                                                                Frai. dv Perso-nel <7,cottc  3, Tableau  135
Salarie. ard Allouant  Lo..al Staff                      180.9         183.0    197.2    213.6    227.2   ?2. 12  1,054.2                                          S - lalieenottn-it-oets du p-rn...el local.
f,ratiae Vlate  cul Âllcaaots                                    2 42-1    305.3    24.         142.2      6001040                 ,4.                      Salaires et eatnusdss etttué
Total                                                    100.9         427.1    102.1    438.0    419~4         291.2  2,098.2          1,4.                 1     Total
Porigo Eathange                                            -           242.1    301.3    244.4    192.2          80.0  1.084.0               -                      -oro-r
lober Cotte                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Autroe Fraie
Vehtînl  -ptatlo  sud Maint.oano. Il                                                                                                                              -aliatte   trt-trire v8 l-                 rs
Laudrovera                                 8~~~~~~~~~~~.7   - 18.2  27.4    27.4      27.4      27.4    126.8              92.3            73          etrsru tocralu
Carc/ptcb-lpe                             -~    ~     ~~~~~      ~~~- 13.3  21.7  21.7  21.7    21.7    180.1              73.173                    ltre/cioutn
lee-ina                                                                7.7      15.5       11.5     11.5       10.2      4,4.5           47.2             79          ait
Ootorbileea                                              -             1.2       2.7       2.7        2.7       2.7      12.0              8.7           72         lrrsl'e
Bi,cIlî                                                                .8         .6        .0         .6        .6       3.0             1.1            27         tcîte
bolio  Spray Renne                                    -             -          .2       1.2        3.0       3.0       9.4              4.8           72    C-u1la   iaorio
T-avl -nd luVseteFYajr ce Subi.tutu..
Lota  Tra_l ad tbetce2'5.6                                             3.6       6.4       7.2        7.2       7.2      23.4            14.6            44         Voag -fn   nu nub-ua.u.ur 2/
Rtegio...l Travel 3/                                     2.0           2.0       2.3       2.5        2.3       2.5      12.0              .362                     Voyage r-gloa ..               _ 
Tranl tc Ki-h.s.a 4 /                                     .             .9       9.8       9.0       79         79       41.7            26.4            62         VoYage  b fKnebso4
Trenol Outatn foute 5/                                   5.7           1.7       6.8       8.1        8.5       6.8      36.2            29.8            82         tcoyuge  boud   lai;  i
Pronte  a/tyl  blrata6                                    -.3            7         8          I        .8        .8         .9            2.4            42         bllo.teiote pou  toit/r   rvc-iuue
tout  Ont fr topatriarn   7/                                            17.6      20.9       13.9       9.3       4.8       46.3            15.0            23    L-or pou  les nu;sot  d-c otr-vrr             nar-c
8ff_e Sapplses sud  eR-1al                                  1.2          2.5       2.1        2 3       2.5       2.1       12.3             7 8            15    Equipovert dn b-rauncctouuiounc
Stuotenanc  ci bildaoa/liipeosaiea   /           -            3.3       8.3        9.4      12.6      13.2       46.8            15.7            3      Etete  dr bitluoa/.p.            ;arn    u
faneauo   TPe q/                                    -             -         -         5.0       6.0        8.0      19.              6.3            35    En;rti- dru basi-alirrso 
t'epa-ead OeRal of Spray R-ts  JO/                         -                                    1       1.3       2.6        4.4             2 4            53    Répsratiuontrrovlîmn   da002;                      0
t     Wtote,Iter, El-ctec-tv, Te1epho..              1.6           1.6       1.9       1.9        1.9       1.9       9.2             3.0             32    Faeii  te   ao  rerrtt'    teélpho-              oprea
Nnrkshops,ticti aooasd Re-teit                             -              .8         .8       10        1.0       1.0      _4.6              3.            --.   Ateler,divers etrturler
tub-Total                                                 29.9          87.7    126.0    131.3    !412!s    128.7         606.1           36_3. 6           60    Tocal partiel
Vett-tttary_1tpp/4y  Il/                                                                                                                                               prvsosVétérinaires  Il/
Hl' Clouc and Phaa'c~ lacerai                              1.6           2.3       3.3        3.3       3.3       3.3      11.7            11.7             74        Clinique et ponenain généeala du ailgo
ZoeClnosad Ph.-.any 1/1.4                                        2.1        3.3       3.3        1.3       9.3      15.7            11.7            74        Cîlilquna         h~i          -1        2
lpeoaos13/                                           .0          4.1       7.3       10.8      14.0      14.0       50.6            37.1            73        Diepeteatret Ls?
Dipptog MSaceriale1  14/                                   - I14        67.0    150 .0    217.0    285.0    359.0  1,070.0                707.0             75        Mote~isu                 14tnrtr A
A~thtîr             15/                                    1.1          10.8      21.0      32.5       23.6      33.8    134.4             3 0.3            23        Le Ch-ben
oiisea-Catîl                                       1.7           6.7      Il 7      16.7       21.7      30.0      86.0            63.13            71        Hrlnintbsc   - béil 15%
loe   uci,ta/oeiae   t ooe           ata         3.3           3.0       8.3      13.0       21.7      208.4      78.4            57.2            73        An,tres inciton/éeu..éiiotr   béalti
-jtclsd tait                                                        6.7      16.7      26.7      40.8       56.7    146.0            107 2             73       Itu-..u. ct cc
Typanons ~da1 Suga                                         .3           1.7       5.0       6.7        7.5       O 3      20.2            21.4             73        Trptncs.da1
Moclno,tdoutona for Geate/Sheep/Pigs                -              .8       1.8        3 3       6.6      13.1      23.4             16.2            64        locltos    nlsj spou- hlrs
Kt.ti.l.                  '~~~17     3.3        5.0       3.0       5.0       20.0            14.6            73            uu-to-a poe
Inoculatu, Trga forPooIlty/llgs, etc.                2.4           3.        4.8       4.8       1.6        4.4      04.0            10.4            4,A                       uldtca-tta              1     té
Stooltnî-up/t8cenellatroua                  ~~     ~     ~~.3  3.2  3.2    .....,6        .6        .6       80.              4.rvlloonot  ovr5eo
SuS-brai                                   ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~13.7  116.3    239 4    345.7    447 9    563.9  1,711.2        I,172.4             68        Tor1 partiel
Total Ochet Cat,                                          43.6         204.0    361.4    477.0    380.3    692.6  2,319.3                                   6i        Total outre   colts
F-rogn Ecnbagn                                            26.6         128.2    227.3    313.5    388.3    468.4            -           1,536.1                         "-
TotalFeceus  sd lober 1ocra                              224.3         631.1    067.9    935.0    999.7    983.8  4,417.5                    -                        Total peeunln  a-o-   c-Gt
Total Forigo Eunh-nge                                     26.6         370.3    342.0    357.9    580.7    328.4   2.300.1               2,580.1            58        Total d-vic..
l/  L-t-trnr  T 3,410   piokuptoa   Z 1.870; 1ory E 1,118;  rto-bik    f 2000; biepylI.  E 8   If  voituestot trri  2.050 zainea; 3.410  ir.    ttctaviue    1.6/is0                                        ra  ta.ac. 3.150
24,80  kna par yea; ropalea by  -erbhbp atadi                                                               anm;  otonytlite 200 sabres; bicyclotto  8  nIa  24.000 kst par on, rpa...ti-a  pur le
p-fa.....1
3/Orcu- Iua u  b, air f21 3-so  tacs  treepe-t f 13.                                                     3/  pra da àadîKicnt                    ..iiaagai par a-ien213  ai-o    t par tani 33asre
4/   -ion. te  itoab...a. ad retur  A T390                                                                 4/  Dn Bonis à Ktahaea et retou  240 faine..
5/  Ton1ulea trantl by th-e roi otourariin   Z 5.070                                                       5/  Y ceexpria le  uyae  de troienepe~ta   161à su  Plac    3 070cbrs
4/  5 ték.fe  privatec-cruP te 188 kt/_oth, 2kl/k. fer at-tobikes ap tc 300 km/s.ooh.                      6/  4  /klk  peo- otrspiiajsu   800  sa/aei., 20~/40 pou   uoo ot-                              uq'  300 la/moi,
7/  1/not  r-t C 2,790 - 3,720 pet caonl) toy- de 2.790 - 3.720 fairna pc,r c..
0/  1-1,2 of voa . otiaated  -al-  fieito   bulîding  ai beginoiag ai Peojot                               4/  1-1/2% ds le valur  l'ainti  de la valeu  na.  bitennta  aattea  début du prrjet etaît
Z 580,980 t-nrea.ed b, eud y-o  5 tn Z 1,216,750                                                           de 188 900 fatra; elle sat esstl dat  l'anée 5 à 1 316 750 faite
9/  1-1/2 of vale                                                                                           9l  1-1/2 de la valeu
18/  ltatornaocr 70ot value   relaetct after îo yeae                                               10/  Stretiea 7% de la vaeu; rnlatoipr'   10 ana
il,  unîne oteecotu Se tratel ,(Table 15 adt.. tot  (Tabla 10>                                              11/  Rein tablat5 et 10 pou  le  -ob-e et ceOa. de bétail pent  pour In treltenat
12;  C 668 pe  ..loi                                                                                        12/  868 Zaire  par o1lelqa
13/  f 117 pe-daeer                                                                                         13/  187   aîrsa Psr diapessaire
14/  tSor Ou-da onc  090t b  1973/74   Snn Tablea 5 & 10 fer nub-r  nd test ci steok un be  14/  Dea fonds ont été déps....a et 1973/74                          nir tbat5nt il p.-r lt  -vb-e dc bél.il
d Ipl   1-1/2 9ra  Asucl/at       ai/en      Z  15 p-r kg. plus dipe flileld tuirea y-a                      ~a   e   ec    deciaeaio.l/   gr-a  d'AauotcI par anaJn  para-                         nl  13  ar/
l",   Ath  .   1 ti   il k    -   .J_l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~15/   Telaind'dvtbh-  Il nakuaa par aniai.
NOTE   Tb. lova  0f firat y-a  -sp-di taa   cc-         tbt tba projaoa ta fol1y  tîaffed and               NOTE;  Le nin..u dec déproaca de la prenilco  -.6eaauà         que le pro jet ta          rpiét-oo   Oqoupl e
operatital dalogthb  fir-tyan   Dn1ope ie1d rnd... tb...eecpeaditars 1-1s.                            apétiraino1 pendast le prenilraauoén.  loi dIlata cOduioot                      ....ivat  de  éeca
Februaro 9, 1977                                                                                           le 9 f-i-vt    1977



ZAIRE                                              ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHNT PROJECT                                                        PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Veterinary and Animal Production Services                                                       Services de Production et de Santé Animales
Estimate of Din Construction Costs (3.000 gal. Cspacity)                                        Estimation du co-t de Construction des Bassins d'Imnersion
(Contenance: 3.000 pitres)
Zaire
made from (Portland) cement of highest quality.  Broken stone to                                       Construit en ciment (Portland) de la meilleure qualit', débris de pierres pouvant passer
pasa a 20 mm sieve, sand medium coarse and clean.                                                      dans un tamis de 20 mm, sable propre de grain moyen.
Materials                                                                                              Matériaux
Cement 9,300 kg  186 bags @ Z12                                              2,232                    Ciment 9.300 kg - 186 sacs @ 12 zaires
Broken Stone  26 cu m @ Z7.50                                                  195                    Débris de pierres m cube @ 7,50 zaires
Sand 13 cu m @ Z4                                                               52                     Sable 13 m cube @ 4 zatres
Iron bar 136 l m steel rod @ 83 k                                              113                     Barre de fer 136 ka de tiges d'acier à 80 makutas (ou 90 kg de fer barbelé)
(or 90 kg barbed wire)
Plastering                                                                                              P1etrage
Cement 1,250 kg  25 bag @ Z12                                                  300                     Ciment 1.250 kg  25 sacs   12 zaIres
Sand  3 cu m @ Z4                                                               12                    Sable 3 m   4 zatres
Roof  20 sheets @ Z10                                                           200                     Toiture    20 plaques a 10 zaires
Posta 28, 2.1 m, 15 cm diameter    )                                                                    Poteaux 28, 2,1 m, 15 cm dia.)
44, 1.8 m, 10 cm diameter    )                                           190                              44, 1,8 m, 20 cm dia.)
Struts   6, 1.3 m 10 cm   "          )                                                                 Etais
Rail  400 m       10 cm    "                                                    210                     Traverses
Boards for frames and shuttering 275 m  23 cm x 2.5 cm                          150                     Planches pour les encadrements de fenetres et les volets 275 m 23 cm x 2,5 cm
Wood Preservative                                                               120                     Solution protectmice pour traiter le bois
Piping, nails, furrow work, miscellaneous                                       500                     Tuyauterie, clous, travaux de terrassement, divers
4,274
Labor  1,200 man days                                                         1,500                     Main d'oeuvre 1.200 hommes-jours
Transport 80 tons (16 loade)                                                                            Transport 80 tonnes (16 chargements)
Project Transport 8 loads x 200 km(costed in Project operation costs) -                                Transport dans le cadre du projet 8 chargements x 200 km inclus dans les coits d'exploitation
Hired Transport  8 loads x 200 km @ 13 k per km/ton                          1.040                     Location de moyens de transport
6,874
Add 15% to take costs to 1976 level                                          1.031                     +20 % pour ajustement aux prix de 1976
7,905
Add construction profit margin 20%                                           1.581                     + 18% de marge bénéficiaire sur la construction
TOTAL:                                                             9.486                     TOTAL
Say:            Z 9,500                     Soit:
Source: Adapted from plans prepared by                                                                  Source:  D'après les plans de la Sociétetd. Cooper, McDougall et Robertson
Cooper, McDougall and Robertson, Ltd.                                                                    élaborés pour leur dépliant sur la balnéation du bétail.
for their cattle dip pamphlet.
June 29, 1976                                                                                           le 29 Juin 1976



ZAIRE
ITTJRI LIVE-STOCK DELOP1£NT PROJECT
It-i H.td P-j.ti-                                                                                                    dII 1L.,pÊw. L. 11-i
End of Year                                                                                                    Fin de L'annêe
p               -------------------------------------------------------- Y../A..é ---------------------------------------------------------
D.el.p-LV           1            2            3            4            5           6            7            8            9           10           il           12        13-20
A,Inl LI
PL.. I,L
HIII 1-fflilill
_L 3 Y..L. j/                            138,700        140,975    143,460    146,218    148,731    154 265    159,526    164,280    168,414    173,343    177,137    177 131   177,137                           177,137
1,1-        -,,,d                                          57 232         59,054       62,635       6 119        70,973      76,135       81 103       83 520       84,577       88,127       90,056       90,056    900S6         90,056                                d.  pl.. d. 3
i._            1-21    ... 1h                         23:944         24 724       25 954       2'7:841      29,555      32,081       34,525       36 781       37 877       38,356       39 966       40,820    40,820         40,820          V--
8                                     237                         4                                                                            -i- .-                            9-24  i.
9-24                                    22,484         22,864       23 976      24   98      26,283       27,858       2            Il 141       31 65       32 054       33,401       34 132    34.132          34 132          Gé
25,809                    ':719                    3361         35, 144                   36,450    37 228         37 228          T-till ... fb..ill...               9-24
H,11,L,          24-16                                     21 31          21,862       22,696       23 930                   27,427       29           32 00                                 ""81
lj.g..L.  2-36                                         11,8                                     12448        12,823       13,142                                15 32        I,7              2      ll,414    lb,714          16794           cé.i ....                          24-36
4                                           38'        11 445       Il 661                                             14 321       14 385             4            5      15 77
36-48                                     71 008          7 Il'       7:196        7,211        1,1I        7,912        g,ffl        :108       8747         9,164        9,314        9,432       9,828         9,828         T.-ill..:/b..ill ..                24-36
B. ll-/St--L-  48-60                                        5 256             208          229       5 280        5 377        5,765        5,928       6 047        6    4       1 412        1:113        6,688       6,688         61688         T..rill. / b .. ill ..             36-48
BIl./St..,.  -t 60                                         4,672          4,751        4,782        4,874        4,991        5,142        5,317       5 539          :'113         778         904         ^.4    _5 904           5,                                          d pl-  d. 60 -i.
T.t.1 Ai..I.  (I.-  L.I-     -...d)                292,000         297,921    307,489    318,815    333,260    349,727    367,779    382,410    392,336   404 353    414,204    417,053  418,587                             418,587          T.,.l Ai-.. (Y ..Mti. -               . .-é.)
M,Lt,lit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mrtalité
Br..di.g -                                                     49'            44o          2"2          304       9,188        9,303        9 448       9,841       10,206       10,505       10,862       11,081    1                    6'        V..h.. Lp-d..ti..
1'l"         I
41 1                 06       0 880       18,865                                18:133       19 839       19 345
9:             9:           9:          9:                                    1:
.1'..                                                     24 601         2    2       220         2                         17,967        7 803                          7                  19,767       19,M        19:717        U  7ll
3:11           3,229l      1:913       2,Ug         28IG        2:661        2:741        2,9119       3:             044       3 172        3,242       3 242         1,242
304                                                                                                      300            044       3172        3,242       3 242         3242
'.                                                                                                                                                                00                                                                          G4"""
B.1l./St..r.                                                                I    1      29'3         2,818        2,810        2661         2741        29 9              7       3,                                                                      Ili .. /b.-ill...
H,f't.                                                     2044            1,795       1I731        1,557        1,531        1,478        1,540       1, 657       1,765        1,818        1,841        I'q 18      1:959         1:959          T-rill.   b        ll..:
15                          1,6                                                             l (                                                                                              1      /          I,
B"11./St..r.                                                  j  2          1,686           00       1,438        1,369        1,314        1,337          4 3       1 495        I,519        1,538        1,603       1,638         1 638          T.t' 1-:/ hI,   11.
B.Il./st..t.                                                   584            558          538          536         548          551          552          6(1          604          644         654          662         690           705
In,                                                            292            343          33           '26         Il7          332          332          339          366          367         384          391         396           413
5M              8l         4681          461         447          446           58          472          486         509          512          528         529           529
T.t.1                                                46.355         45.011       4l862      40,138       37.885       36,713       36-952       38.484      4M 75        40.795       41,902       42.435    42569          42 964          Tt.1
36 - th.                        9,490          9,601       10,095       10,63       11,230       11,972       12,718       15,141       17 68675     18,818828   2 0,988258    24,99406    25,3944      25,759                                d pl.. d. 362-1.
H'i'.'.              -Z24    _ th.                             584            601          620          658         694          745          799          851                                                             46            946        céi.                                 9- 4_i.
9 2                                                                                                                                               6
B.1l./St..r.                4                               2,336          2,461        2,598        3,602        3,967        4,968        6,090       6,488        7    99      7,190        1490         7,654       7,654         7,654                                 ...          9-24
287         297          467          501          650          802         863        1 400        1515           534        11598      1,633          1, 633        cé.i ...                           24-36
24 3                                    292                                                                                                     :I                      1:
B.il /St....           24-36                                9,052           9,353       9 603       10 090       10,706       11,827      12,200       13,449       14,326       14 560       14,744       15,364    15:700          I5700         T-rill ...                          24,36
B.11:/St..L.           36 4                                 3 504          3 792        3:811        3:918        4 182        4 3"O        4 50'       5,012        5,034        5:516        5 607        5 678       5 916         6,261         T.-Ill.../b .. i 1                  36-48
60                                   60          1 457       1,478        1,490        1 513        1 6 1        1 65                                  1,96         2 10         2 235       2 34          1,727                                             48-60
48                                                                                                                                               88
B.11. 5 y..L. -d                                            4,672          4,691        4,709        4,676        4,716        4,M          1111        5 I4        1    87      5,480        5,774        6,145       6,119----i  1-59             T-r.a.. d. 5             tpl-
T.t.1                                               31,390          32243       33,211      35,535       37,509       40,923       43 900       48,735      53,715       55,659       59,069       64,520    65,700          66,839          T.tal
Tl,h,l,,l Celll,,,,,s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C..ffi.i..t.
% Li h..  dipp..                                              00            30.0        450          60 0         75A          80 0         8I0          80.0        80 0         80 0         800          80.0         800          800            gtil
59             59.0         591         59 5         6M           61 0         620          62.0         62 0        62 0         620           62 0        62 0         620                   d.
2                                                               1
LLli 'y        .- 1 ...Lh.                 %       3.               9 0        260          24.0         21 0         19.0          80         180          18 0         18 0         18.0         18.0          8.0         180            Ta.. III, _LraI.t d-   --              a. 0
M.Lt.ilty               9-24                        z       120             11 5        100           9.0          8 5          7 5          72           72           7 2          7 2          7.2          7.2         7 2           72           T... d -Lt.,, té                   1-24
-36                                   0            7                                                     0         48           48
li't.lit,             24                                                                 70          6.0          55           5                                                  4 8          4.8          4.8          4.8          48            T... d.  .tt.lité                   4 31
6.               9                                                                                                                                                                             I,-
btt:lily                                           %                        5.9                      5.6                                    5.2          5 2          5. 22        5.2         5.2                          2         52            T... d       Lt.lité
3                                                                                      5
7.                                                                                                                               2                       4,2         4.             :2          T     d. ..tt.lité
5.                       5.4          5                                                                            5 2
M.t, li'y              oth-    t..k                          1.0             4           4.7          4.6          4 4          4.3          42           42           4.          4,           4 2                          2         4
9                  6               .0                                               6.                                                              1                         lI
C-   /Hif-           36 ... th. L.li.                                       6           6.2          6.4          6 6             8         7.0          80           9 0          9.0         00          11.6             9          20           T           el                               d. Ll.. d. 36
r-t"  %            0                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,  1,      -, d',
9. 24-      71        2.1            2            2.1         2l          2 1          21          2 1          2.1          2:1          21           2I          2l          21           2 1                                    d- géi.e.                     924
14        l        81             8 6          88         Il           12 0         14           160          160          l7O         170          17 .0        17 0         170          170                               L1.  .. ....                      ... 1:1
H.                       ti..          4 36                   12             j2                                                   2         11           21           40          40                        4 0          40           40            V-                             i., ...                   4 36
il.r                                2':                                                   2          .5          2.0          2.0                                                             40                        6O
24-36                4I.3            11 31      42I          42.1         41..         41          46..         41D          41D          4lD         46I          41.0         4            46.0                               t     dI,
.1i    .                                                                                            I            Il l                                                                                                   3                                                                                 : 2 :36
9                               31-48         %       330                          33                                    I4          343          350          350          360                                                 36.0          V                          d. 1-    111    /1 -I           3' 48
B    i L                                                                    3                         ''                           e -60  '4  208  2     210          210         25                                        :0
B.11"ste.L ..l..               Li..  48                                     20.8          10         210          21.0         21           210                                     2          23.0         24 0         25           2                                  Li    d                                48-
1 00                                                            1                                                   13
9:24       kg      1300           130 0         300         13).         131 U        132          133           3.0        1350         1360         136.0                     1360         1360            P,1d,      pj1:,:_,t d',giIIi....                         9-24    kk
9 2
z l 't 11,11-                         4       kg      1400                        14                                                              1
140-0                    141.0        141 0        1420         1430          4.0        1490                                   14l 0        1460         1460            P. d        p          L d-   _1..
1 00                                                                         1            1           1
DIIIP ... 1 I,, Hf-.                24-36        kg      1700           171,0         7           171 1        171 0        172.         1710        110            711         Il1          76 -11      171 1        1111         -711            P- d        pl,,-.., d..
l                     4                                  18  0        1 50         186          186.0        187          14                       1            19           I          lI         L                                                                                            4
2 :36       kg      1850              5.          8               0                                  sa0         I8                                                                                                                                                      24_3
D1.,, ,:1                           3  48        k,      2400                                                                                                       qo9                                                910         igIO            PIid.       pl--       t d.. ..l
6_                                240 0        2400         241.1        241                                      40        2450                                                 4 0         2460
P'                                48 60        kg      2               280.0       2800                                                               40
0      2430         249.0                     2410         246          21,6
242.0                                                                                                                                                                        24-3
2.1.I       MID          2            2            2d           286:(        286,(        26.                                                                                     36-4
kg      3S10'o                     3                                                                                                                                                             PP""                                                           g
40                       60              0            0
0         31IU a                   381.0        3EIl0        3120         3130         31                                                               36                                        17                                           4-l0
85 0          60
C. 1 C-          H.if-    -       3 '..L.          kg      2400           240.0        21400 00     24111 0      241                                                315 0        31           316.'        3l6              0       316.0                                        d pl-   d. 5
Of'fl.k 2,                                                                                           1.           10         2420        2430         24           245 0        2460         24é-         246,ô        2 14 0       246O
108         1 1          1            Il7           -            27          13 6          38             0                                                          d- L-f-        -t gé-i.... III, pl-   d, 3
o7            10 8                                                                        140                       1            142          15 0         157
t. -l.1 h-d  -1                                                                     3                      d i  th.                  Afi d
d,  Ith..gh - y h   f.,.                                 1 4 Y..,.  id  L                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P-
Cttl                                                                                                                                                   i--1-- I.- géIIi .... dI, pl-   dI, 3          d... 1.               d v..h..,                                         J...
h-
Lnti
L'a&. d. q..LL . ... .. pl...
2/                                                                   _g t -d   f Y-L.  Th                                                                II
id          h.         L-Z    tIff  f lh. h-d -  y-             10 (-      t.-   p.-  67).                                       2                                                                                                 é
L.PP-L .. é1-l                 -   1-   d.-  -
d.    ,p              PLI,                 -L d., . i.                            t,..p... d-                 10          p.-  67 d. tL-t).
5
J-ly 12, 1976                                                                                                                                      1. 12 jIiII.t 1916



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                     PROJET E E DEVELOPPENT DE L ELEVAGE EN ITUR!
Ooantitv and Value of  .ncr...nd Prndoctitn                                                                      Production Suppltoenatire de BRvins on Itari: Quntité et Valeur
Proh tha Itri Cattle HMrd
Pre-Developxnvt/                          _-----------------  _-_-_-_-_-_Year/AnNee                              -------------------------
Avnt le développenrnt 1        2         3         4        5         6        7          ô          9        10         il         12         IdO
A. PRODUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                            A.  PRO   aIO
itvevetiht Offt-ke 1/                                                                                                                                                                                         Exploitation:  Poide vif
Estitoatd liveaight offtakr                                                                                                                                                                             Eoti,etioo de looploitotien son  l  projet:
with pro.jot (aotrir tons)                         7103         7278     7482      7949     8333      9028      9672     10782      11984      12456     13250      14587      14866     15163            petoitdo vif on tonnes
Eetiistod live-eight efftnko                                                                                                                                                                            Oetitatioo do Ilooploitetion sans Is projet:
vithont proJent (=etric tone) 2/                   7103         7203     7303      7405     7509      7614     7721       7829       7938       8049      8162       0276      8392       8510            peido vif en tonne. 2/
Estieated it.resco dca te
prjorrt (=etri. tene)                                -            75      179       544      824      1414      1951      2953       4046      4406       5088       6311       6474      6653        rott= tion do lauontatin due se proJet (an tonnes
I-rr.asod Milk Production for Conse..  tio-                                                                                                                                                                   Preidutitn Supplé=entare de lait pour 1s eneshlen
Eott,eatad .11k availablo fer                                                                                                                                                                            EatiRlotion do la prodortion 9a lait dtspolIbld poOT
ronaneptien vith projent- liter  (005 3/                                                                                                                                                               la  oinsatdo avec Or projet - (on nillters
de. te itaron.ad -attle it =ilk                    5723         5905     6263      6612     7097      7613      8110      8352       8457       8812      9006       90Q6       9006      9006        do titrra) - duo h 00e sognntaten descbo  lsltthre-
In.rresd =i1k predertioc  thtough                                                                                                                                                                       Prodmutlcr op7pé sntaira  le lait dre à une eillev
bhtter aaagsneni-ltter  (000) A/                     -            -        -          7       21        76       162       250        338        441       450        450        450       450            geetion  (on nilliers do litrs') Y
Milk predution  ioie  prjoct- litr v   000)          5723         5905     6263      6619      7118     7689      8272      8602       8795       9253       9456      9456       9456       9456        PrEduotiîo  de lait  une le pojet (enotillers de litree)
Eotintod oilk prodactta  ithont                                                                                                                                                                         fat  taio  do1   rdcinspionar   oli
prejont-litor  (000) 2/                            5723         5803     5884      5967     6051      6135      6221      6308       6396       6486      6577       6670       6762      6857        (eo n      rillior  do litres)
Istiotasd increaent-i  ilk pradotinon-                                                                                                                                                                  Production e,t0plé=ent.re eaton,stive do lait (ea ailliorn
litar  (<OO)                                         -          102       379      652      1067      1554     2051       2294       2399      2767       2879       2786      2694       2599            d. lit-s)
8. VALUE (b.sed on prîies it  Section C balo)                                                                                                                                                             B.  VALE3R (baée aur le. prix de la oe-tion C ni-pnie)
Vain ef iacrr_ntal liveaitght                                                                                                                                                                            Vsletr do la  production ouppléeatfore   poids vif
predetio     ( Z(OOO)                                             45       108      327      494       843      1162       1745      2382       2601       2990      3701       3793       3906           rn  illiero  do Z.
Value cf 66% of in InIIon ,al =ilk production                                                                                                                                                            Vleur de 66% de la predoution  supplé-etairo do  aIbt
at 4k par litr Z(OOO)                                              3       10        17       28        41        54        60         63         73         76        74         71         69           à 4 k 1e litre
Total increrptsl value                             _            48       118      344       522      884      1216      1805       2443       2674       3066      3775       3864       3975        Veleur eupplémntairo totale
C. PRICES PER KG LVlWEIGO8T                                                                                                                                                                               C.  POIX PAR KG DE POIDS VIF
V20 kf liv.etight of  -i         u4n                                                            4 5de4              5                                                                                    Valeur du poids vif dec *ninaux ayant nciao  do
260 kg liveveight                                                 54       54        54       54        54        54        54         54         54         54        54         54         54           260 kg de poids vif
V20 kf livwight of  8i0 l- o0e                                                                                                                                                                           Valeur du poido vir dea aulnes aynt plua do
260 kg liveveight                                    -           80        80        80       80        80       80         80         80         80         80        80         80         80           260 kg do poids vif
Tlic Onclues oa.ina1o olaughtered by Iro   o f      sod -rt-lY  -untuopl, aao in ankela fut loa  cc.c1 ie                           Le chiffr. inclut Ira naon        i.cé  poti- lvu  pou  lectacsie   faotiji             9ves  u  nnhea peut la
bnd exp-rt, bnd blea store end Iature caill  te 01ine.                                                                              neoe ion -l  t.l  et I exportaion, et  e vnt   de bovi  an  de bo l                  
I2            * herd gro-th rata cf 1.4%.                                                                                          4   Support un taun dc orconaoce du troupace de 1,4%.
2/ Il  aaeuned thnt ucov  vith -alvea yicld 400 litrea p   lap ttilu  e? dhch the unit couh          be dnprlv-d b.                    I'on .uppoan tue ier l  c- hea ayant de- vvaun pruduire-t 400 litres de lait pour lallleit..ent; peut On cuoo.nnanle
ef 100 litrea fon hune censoeptlec                                                                                                 fcrilitl.  le veau porrait on être prive do 100 litras.
/  Coaaencing in yent 3 incrtrsed =ilk prod.rtice fon  houe ceeacoptioc with 0.1 litier par CN it  ilk; a;                             EOn cox.nçont k l'Vnoée 3, la production aepplélnénatirc  de loit peut la conaetaio  fonili.1t  eca  dr 0.1 litre
ye 4, 0.3 litar/cn; y.ar 5. 1 liter; yoc 6, 2 litera: yer 7, 3 litera; yoar 8, 4 litera;                                           Pet vch-o  l t              1 'neé  4, do 0,3 litrt/vsrhc  O  'ané               itto; à 1'snno  6, de 2 litron;
pesy   9, S litera.                                                                                                                k IlounC  7, de 3 lttres; h l'ané  0, dc t litre;  ti    '
J.nly 8. 1876                                                                                                                      la O juillet  1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
Summary of Main Training Objectives
1.        Projected output of trained veterinary staff suggests that there
will be enough personnel graduating for the requirements of the Project
(Appendix 1). The training of these staff, however, is mainly theoretical
and there is insufficient practical training. The technical quality of
existing junior staff in Ituri is capable of improvement. The first objec-
tive of the Project will therefore be to improve the technical knowledge and
extension techniques of existing Project staff and provide them with the
necessary aids. The second objective will be to develop training projects
for livestock farmers using:
(a) on-farm training techniques;
(b)  film shows, radio programs; and
(c) existing farmers training establishments
at Totoba and Gopka.
Thirdly, an attempt will be made to improve the livestock course content
of the two staff training centers in Ituri at Loda and Pimbo. Project
experience may enable improvements to be made in the course content at
the various veterinary schools in Zaire (Appendix 1).
2.        To develop these objectives the Project unit would have an Exten-
sion and Training Specialist, a counterpart and several junior staff stationed
at headquarters in Bunia (this staff and costs contained in Annex 3, Tables 13
and 14). The main tasks would be:
(a) to review the training requirements of staff and farmers;
(b) to improve the extension efficiency of Project field staff
through training on the job and through special training
programs to be developed by the proposed new Ngabu training
center at Nioka. Time would be spent mainly in the
field with staff. The staff at the Ngabu Training Center
would concentrate on developing course content and the
center's development in full cooperation with the extension
specialist;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c) to develop standard recommendations and manuals for use in
field work;
(d) to develop a radio and mobile visual aids program; and
(e) to assist the Totoba and Gopka institutes to develop their
programs;
3.        The General Department of Agriculture has established an Information
and Training Bureau, which among other activities organizes refresher courses
for agents attached to the department's extension services. This bureau has
not yet had the opportunity to prepare similar courses for veterinary service
personnel, but Project staff would liaise closely with it.
A. In-Service Training - NGABU Training Center
4.        The country's veterinary education system provides the following
levels of training for Government animal production and health services
(Appendix 1).
-    Veterinarians trained at the National University of Zaire or
educated abroad;
-    Assistant veterinarians trained at the Butembo (Kivu) and
Mbandaka (Equator) schools;
-    Veterinary Infirmiers and Infirmiers aides trained at the
Loda (Ituri) and Sandoa (Shaba) schools.
5.        At all levels, education is more theoretical than practical
and is designed primarily to impart theories related to veterinary science.
Veterinarians leave school, insufficiently prepared to face administrative,
organizational and leadership responsibilities. The teaching system of
training centers for Assistant Veterinarians and Infirmiers is primarily
concerned with preparing students for subsequent admission to the University.
Due to this fact, general education is stressed over and beyond vocational
training. On the vocational level, practical training accounts for only 15%
of the learning process, out of which a significant part is devoted to
laboratory work. Thus, students are inadequately prepared to confront their
future professional responsibilities which will consist primarily of dealing
with peasant farming problems.
6.        At full development the Ituri Project Unit will have a junior
field staff of 100 Infirmiers and 105 aides who will require in-service
training. ONDE ranches and abattoirs will have training requirements. For
this purpose it is necessary to develop a small training center in Ituri.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The refurbishing of existing unused buildings at the old Ngabu laboratories on
the Nioka Research Center was chosen for this purpose because: (a) it was
centrally situated in the Project area, (b) it already had buildings and land,
(c) the research center had excellent demonstration material which could be
used at little extra cost (d) staff at the research center could be drafted
from time to time to help with lecture work. The alternative of providing new
facilities at the existing Loda or Pimbo centers (paras 14 to 18) was turned
down at this stage since they would have required more extensive improvements
involving the present course structure and facilities and an examination of
total training requirements at these centers.
7.        The Ngabu center has a housing unit, large dining room and eight
double rooms and kitchen sufficient to accommodate 16 trainees. Furnishings
are required. Adequate buildings nearby, requiring some refurbishing are
available for lecture rooms, stores, office space and housing for staff. A
new house, however, would be needed for the technical assistance expert in
charge of the center. Stock buildings are available on the center although
new demonstration buildings built out of materials commonly available to the
peasant farmers would also be built. An area of land would be demarcated for
the center and some stock (cattle, pigs, rabbits) provided for sole use by the
center. Much teaching, however, would be undertaken using stock and pastures
on the Nioka Research Center.
8.        The teaching staff would consist of a principal and a lecturer.
For the first three years the principal would be an expatriate provided
under German technical assistance. He would be a member of the Ituri Project
Unit team.
9.        The principal would be trained in agriculture and animal pro-
duction, specializing in education and communication techniques. He will:-
organize the center and define, in collaboration with the Project management,
both the contents and length of training programs; make all necessary contact
with institutions which might be in a position to offer assistance; teach all
subjects which are not specifically technical, in which endeavor he will be
assisted by the scientific staff attached to the station.
10.       An assistant veterinarian counterpart would take responsibility
following the departure of the technical assistance expert.  He will be
given a few months training in an institution specializing in vocationally-
oriented adult education.
11.       Courses for staff will last one to two weeks and will be specially
designed to meet the needs of a particular extension program. Emphasis
will be placed on practical training and dealing with the immediate farming
problems associated with Project implementation. Training would be spread
out over several courses. Once adequate numbers of staff have received
training, special courses might be extended to various leaders in the farming
community such as chiefs and representatives of grazing associations. The
long term future of the centre would be considered when the project is near
completion and follow up requirements are known.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       The cost of renovations and equipment for the Ngabu center is
estimated at Z 155,760 (Table 1), and the cost of training over 5 years,
including Technical Assistance, Z 332,000 (Table 2).
B. Farmer Training
13.       Catholic missions have established two farmer training centers -
one in Totoba near Bunia with an enrollment capacity of thirty the other in
Gopka, a few kilometers from Loda, with capacity for approximately 15 farmers.
These centers organize training programs in which demonstration and practical
experience or field work constitute the major elements of the educational
experience. Courses have been organized which vary from 1 week to 1 year in
duration. However, the length of the course, separation from families and the
impossibility for trainees to return home to care for their farms during the
course limit the number of volunteers, so that the courses are usually only
one third or one quarter full. Principals of these centers suggest that
extension activities should be carried out:
-    in the villages themselves so that farmers are not forced
to travel long distances;
-    or during day visits to the market place, dispensary or the
dipping tank, for example.
Formal training courses can only cover a small part of the population and
in the first instance should be directed at those individuals destined to
play a special role in the development process such as village extension
agents or heads of grazing associations. The Totoba and Gopka centers wish
to collaborate with the Project in organizing these training programs and
to offer the use of their facilities. Efforts will be made to use Totoba
and Gopka more fully but with the experience of these two centers in mind
it is intended that most farmer training will be done on farms, in villages
or at the dispensaries and dipping tanks. This will be one of the tasks of
assistant veterinarians and Infirmiers who will be instructed in communication
techniques during training programs at the Nioka center.  The program will be
assisted by:
(a) commentated filmstrips and slides - A truck equipped with
all necessary equipment will be placed under responsibility
of the Project management to be used for this purpose. Some
slides and audio visual material would be made by project
staff other material would be purchased;
(b) radio broadcasts in Swahili - The radio broadcasting
services have already attempted to organize special
educational programs dealing with agriculture.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
The Project would work closely with the radio and television networks'
special services departments to prepare programs dealing with Project
themes and programmed to follow closely the animal breeding and farming
cycles.  In addition to funds for Ngabu the Project will supply funds
(Z 53,000) for visual aid materials and the mobile film unit as well
as some finance for running a few short courses at Totoba and Gopka
centers (Table 3).
C. Agricultural Staff Training Schools in the Project Zone
14.       There are two agricultural staff training schools in Ituri
managed by the Department of National Education: The Loda veterinary
school and the agricultural school in Pimbo. The Loda Veterinary school,
established in 1952, was originally concerned with training foreign settlers
who came to the country to establish their own farms. In 1958, this insti-
tution was converted into a veterinary Infirmier school offering a two-year
course of study to an enrollment capacity of 30 students per year. Students
are admitted after having completed a general orientation program (usually
two years after completing their elementary studies).
15.       Courses are taught by the Director (an assistant veterinarian
who has graduated from Butembo), and two Rwandan assistant veterinarians.
At the time of appraisal, there were two assistant veterinarian teaching
positions. The course has recently been increased to three years so in-
creasing numbers by 50%, making it necessary to construct new dormitories
and classrooms. Due to insufficient funds, the school director has used
unpaid workers from the Loda community to construct them and they are still
incomplete. There is a school farm of 700 hectares of grazing and forest
land. The farm carries 63 head of cattle, of which 7 died during 1974
from anthrax and seven cows aborted during the same period. In addition
the pig enterprise of 60 hogs was discontinued in 1975 due to the high costs
of feeding. Apart from staff salaries which were paid directly by the
Department of Finance the school's only other income in 1974/75 for running
the center were student enrollment fees (at the rate of Z 41 per student),
proceeds from the sale of hogs (a total of Z 250), receipts from the sale
of coffee (Z 96), and an additional Z 300 from rental of a truck which was
assigned for school use. These funds are insufficient for the upkeep of
a school with an enrollment figure of 66 students and which will admit
100 students beginning in 1975/76. All funds were used for maintenance of
the student body, at the expense of:
(a) replacement of equipment and supplies;
(b)  providing practical student field work (which explains
why the education system revolves primarily around
teaching of theory); and



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(c) the upkeep of school buildings which are in urgent
need of repair.
It would require a considerable amount of funds to bring the Loda school
and farm up to the necessary standard.
16.       Pimbo Agricultural Training school trains junior officials of
the agriculture department. Until 1974 this school was operated by a
Catholic mission. Its physical facilities are still in good condition.
However, the limited resources of the education department do not enable
it to grant this educational institution the subsidies which will most
definitely be required in the near future to keep it in reasonable
condition.
17.       If the Ituri Livestock Development Project proceeds satisfactorily
it is likely to be followed by a series of projects dealing with general
agricultural development. More trained personnel will be required as well
as more in-service training. Therefore, although no funds are proposed
under this Project for the improvement of these two centers it would be
valuable to begin to explore the possibility of consolidating the Loda
and Pimbo schools into a single unit, with the following advantages:
(a) reduction in overhead expenses of these institutions by
uniting the administrative personnel of the two schools
into a single staff;
(b) consolidation of the teaching staff so that they feel
less isolated - a step which, could improve future
recruitment;
(c) provison of better and expanded facilities at no additional
cost; and
(d) most important of all, provision of trained agents who
show theinselves as better adapted to development needs.
18.       Some funds required for such a study have been provided for
within the framework of the present Project in order to ensure the
initiation of the reorganization effort just as soon as its need becomes
obvious (Annex 9).



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Courses for Veterinary Staff in Zaire
Veterinarians
1.        Veterinarians are qualified after completing a six-year course
at the School of Veterinary Science on the Lubumbashi Campus of the University
of Zaire 1/. Some veterinarians have studied at various universities abroad
while the others have not. There are currently 40 qualified veterinarians
in Zaire (including expatriate technical assistance) of which only 3 are
employed by the Department of Animal Production and Health, on the AO staff
level. The others are employed either by other government agencies (ONDE,
University of Zaire, Armed Forces...) or by commercial enterprises where the
salary level is higher. Each year 5-8 new veterinarians graduate from the
University. The country's need for veterinarians in 1990 is projected to be
120. The university's training capacity is sufficient to satisfy this demand.
Assistant Veterinarians
2.        Assistant veterinarians are trained at the Butembo (Kivu) and
Mbandaka (Equator) schools to which they are admitted upon completion of
their elementary-level studies. They complete a two-year general orienta-
tation program followed by a four-year program of zootechnical and veterinary
education. The annual training capacity of these schools is between 15 and
20 assistant veterinarians. There are currently approximately 80 assistant
veterinarians on the A2 staff of the Department of Animal Production and
Health. The projected demand for 1990 is 600 to 700 assistant veterinarians.
These needs will not be satisfied by the existing schools. The second educa-
tion project provides for aid to the Butembno and Gandajika schools 2/, each
of which has an enrollment capacity of 230 students. Better performance by
these schools would enable them to cover the country's needs.
1/   Beginning in 1976, any student in the School of Veterinary Science
who has completed 3 years of study and who has obtained the correspond-
ing degree may be recruited by the government veterinary services as
part of its Ai staff.
2/   Appraisal of a second education project in Zaire, September 9, 1975
Annexes 9 and 10.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
Veterinary Infirmier
3.        Veterinary Infirmiers are trained in the Loda (Ituri) and Sandoa
(Shaba) training schools to which they are admitted after having completed
a general orientation course and in which they proceed to complete a three-
year course of zootechnical and veterinary education similar in nature to
that pursued in the Butembo and Mbandaka schools. It is possible for a
student graduating from Loda or Sandoa with a diploma to enroll in the
last year of study of the schools for assistant veterinarians. Upon com-
pleting their prescribed course of study, veterinary Infirmiersare re-
cruited by Government veterinary services as part of their A3 managerial
staff. Students who have completed their training but who have been unable
to obtain their diploma may be hired as veterinary Infirmier aides, whose
duties and functions are, in many instances, identical to those of full-
pledged Infirmiers. The Loda and Sandoa schools each produce an average
of from 25 to 30 veterinary Infirmiers per year.
Course Output
4.        Forecasts of output from veterinary schools indicate that the
country's needs n 1990 will be largely satisfied:
Veterinary Service Personnel
Staffing, Training and Demand (1973-1990) 1/
Veterinarians 2/ Technicians Vet. Infirmiers
Manpower in 1973                      14               106           1,052
Estimated demand for 1990            120               600           2,400
Expansion needs                      106               494           1,348
Eliminated wastage of
1973 staff 3/                        6                43             426
Total training needs                 112               537           1,774
Estimated Supply 4/                  424               745           NA 5/
1/   This table has been reproduced from Annex 4 of the appraisal report for
the second education project.
2/   Includes third year graduates recruited as Ai staff members.
3/   Estimated at the rate of 3% per year.
4/   Includes a 3% annual loss factor.
5/   A portion of these needs will be covered by graduates from Loda and
Sandoa.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Courses for Veterinary Staff in Zaire
Veterinarians
1.        Veterinarians are qualified after completing a six-year course
at the School of Veterinary Science on the Lubumbashi Campus of the University
of Zaire 1/. Some veterinarians have studied at various universities abroad
while the others have not. There are currently 40 qualified veterinarians
in Zaire (including expatriate technical assistance) of which only 3 are
employed by the Department of Animal Production and Health, on the AO staff
level. The others are employed either by other government agencies (ONDE,
University of Zaire, Armed Forces...) or by commercial enterprises where the
salary level is higher. Each year 5-8 new veterinarians graduate from the
University. The country's need for veterinarians in 1990 is projected to be
120. The university's training capacity is sufficient to satisfy this demand.
Assistant Veterinarians
2.        Assistant veterinarians are trained at the Butembo (Kivu) and
Mbandaka (Equator) schools to which they are admitted upon completion of
their elementary-level studies. They complete a two-year general orienta-
tation program followed by a four-year program of zootechnical and veterinary
education. The annual training capacity of these schools is between 15 and
20 assistant veterinarians. There are currently approximately 80 assistant
veterinarians on the A2 staff of the Department of Animal Production and
Health. The projected demand for 1990 is 600 to 700 assistant veterinarians.
These needs will not be satisfied by the existing schools. The second educa-
tion project provides for aid to the Butembno and Gandajika schools 2/, each
of which has an enrollment capacity of 230 students. Better performance by
these schools would enable them to cover the country's needs.
i/   Beginning in 1976, any student in the School of Veterinary Science
who has completed 3 years of study and who has obtained the correspond-
ing degree may be recruited by the government veterinary services as
part of its Ai staff.
2/   Appraisal of a second education project in Zaire, September 9, 1975
Annexes 9 and 10.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
Veterinary Infirmier
3.        Veterinary Infirmiers are trained in the Loda (Ituri) and Sandoa
(Shaba) training schools to which they are admitted after having completed
a general orientation course and in which they proceed to complete a three-
year course of zootechnical and veterinary education similar in nature to
that pursued in the Butembo and Mbandaka schools. It is possible for a
student graduating from Loda or Sandoa with a diploma to enroll in the
last year of study of the schools for assistant veterinarians. Upon com-
pleting their prescribed course of study, veterinary Infirmiersare re-
cruited by Government veterinary services as part of their A3 managerial
staff. Students who have completed their training but who have been unable
to obtain their diploma may be hired as veterinary Infirmier aides, whose
duties and functions are, in many instances, identical to those of full-
pledged Infirmiers. The Loda and Sandoa schools each produce an average
of from 25 to 30 veterinary Infirmiers per year.
Course Output
4.        Forecasts of output from veterinary schools indicate that the
country's needs n 1990 will be largely satisfied:
Veterinary Service Personnel
Staffing, Training and Demand (1973-1990) 1/
Veterinarians 2/ Technicians Vet. Infirmiers
Manpower in 1973                      14               106           1,052
Estimated demand for 1990            120               600           2,400
Expansion needs                      106               494           1,348
Eliminated wastage of
1973 staff 3/                        6                43             426
Total training needs                 112               537           1,774
Estimated Supply 4/                  424               745           NA 5/
1/   This table has been reproduced from Annex 4 of the appraisal report for
the second education project.
2/   Includes third year graduates recruited as Ai staff members.
3/   Estimated at the rate of 3% per year.
4/   Includes a 3% annual loss factor.
5/   A portion of these needs will be covered by graduates from Loda and
Sandoa.



2AIEE
ITIRI LIVESTOCR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                     PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Investuent Cosnt    Nghac- Training Unit                                                toits d'Tnvsetlssae,ant - Dgebn i/Unité de Formation
Poreign
a------------------- Year/Année ---        -      -----         Total/        Exchange/
1   2       3           4           5           Total          Devises
Total       6.
INVESTMNTS                                                                                                                                                                        INVESTISSEMENTS
Ngabu                                                                                                                                                                              Ngabu
Ttain.. housing (I)                                                      1S,960                                                           15,960         6,860      43       Logement dee stagiaires (1)
Housing for center direotor (2)                                          23,412                                                          23,412          6,560      28       Logement do chef de centre (2)
hlnunlng facilities for middle and lo              sar-l'e! 1taff (3)    31,200                                                          31,200          8,740      28       Loge.ont de 1'ad,ocit er des cadres subalternes (3)
School building (4)                                                       3,192                                                           3,192          1,370      43       Bttiment s.olaire (4)
Office equip tent (5)                                                     4,062                                                           4,062          2,270      56       Matériel adminintratif (S)
Pig soi ntock housing (6)                                                 1,500                                                            1,500           -         -       Porcherie et autres bâtim.ents pour le bétail
Audsi-visuel materials (7)                                                2,610                                                            2,610         2,610    100        Matérine  nudiovisuel (7)
Vahicles (6)                                                             36.912                                36.912                    73.824         56,840      77       Véhicules (8)
Tota1                                                              118.848                               366912                    155.760        85,250       55%      TotAl
Foreign Exchange                                                         56,830                                28,420                     85,250                             Deviaea
1/  Renovation of eoisting building, painting, equipment for community fanilities                                            1/ REstoration des bâtinents coitants, peinturea,  équipmeonts pour aménagements ooeunactairas,
faoilitien  (kitchen,  -achroon). restoration of restroo   and bath focilities                                               anénagenonts cuisine et salle-do-bain, restoretion don toilettes, nobilier et équipesents
furniture and household goods.                                                                                               domestique.
2/  Construction and furniture.  To bo omitted if housing con bh  naid  available                                            2/  Construction et nobilier.    A suppronor ai un logenent peut ût,e rendu disponible suc la
els-here on the statine                                                                                                      tation paroi les lngemento de cadres.
3/  Refurbishing and -utfitting nf 6 .nocc.uped house6 nt the  N8abu conter-                                                  3/ Amésnagemnt et équipoment de 6 naien.s existantes et inutilisées au centre de llgabu ncter.
4/  Furnitur-  sod equipsent for the building located behind the laboratorges and                                            4/  Mobilier et équipement du bâtinent situé i  l'annare des laboratoires et présæetoeent
presently unoccupied.                                                                                                         inoccupé.
5/  2 typeerîters, 1 roneograph, 1 photocopier, 1                    office equipment                                         5/  2 nachines à écrare, 1 nachino à ronéotyper, 1 photocopieuse, 1 nachine a calculer, mobilier
(renter director, counterpart, secretary, accountant, -upervi-or).                                                           de bureau (chef de cnntre  adjoint,  senrétaire, comptable, suveillant).
6/  Buildings ta shelter, approoimately 50 hogs ani a  n-a1l-scale stocb-farm  (rabbits,                                     6/ Bâtinenippour abriter uno  cinquantaine de pc,.s et ins form  d'élevage (lapina et poulets)
chickans)conetructed af local  oatrials.                                                                                     à petite énhelle construits de matéri.ux locaux.
Z/  1 slide projector, 1 16 om film projentor, 1 ocreen, 1 taperecorder, 1 ki  generating                                     7/ Projerteur do diapos-tive, projecteur de film 16 me, un  cran, un nagnétophnn,géenerateur de 1 kt.
unit.
8/  2 land rovers, 1 3-tan truck.  Vehiclea oill he repl.acd in year 4.                                                      8/  2 lsei.rovets, un  camion de trois tonnes, las véhicules aeront remplacées  i l'année 4.
July 23, 1976                                                                                                                le 23 juillet 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Ngabu - Training Unit                  Ngabu - L'Unité de Formation Professionnelle
Operating Costs of Education Unit           Couts de Fonctionnement de L'Unité de Formation
(Z)                                             (zaires)
Grade/Salary/      --------------Year/Année-------------          Total/    Poreign Exchange/
Grade/Salaire     1         2        3         4        5         Total      Coût en Devises
-____________ _           -Total                                               %
Ngabu                                                                                                                                              Ngabu
Salaries 1/                                                                                                                                         Salaires 1/
Head of Center                                      52,200       52,200   52,200   52,200      -         -       156,600    156,600       100       1 Chef de centre
Counterpart (1)                                      2,500        1,875    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500       11,875        -          -        Personnel national (1)
Lecturer                                             1,225         -        -          613    1,225    1,225       3,063        -          -        1 Conférencier
Typist, Accounts and Stores Clerks                     675        1,688    2,025    2,025    2,025    2,025        9,788        -          -        Dactylo, employé comptabilité/magasin
Drivers (3)                                            575        1,150    1,725    1,725    1,725    1,725        8,050        -          -        3 Chauffeurs
Laborers (4)                                           400        1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600        8,000        -          -        4 manoeuvres
Cooka/Laundryman (2)                                   575          863   1150 1 150    1.150    1.150           5,463        -          -        1 Cuisinier 1 Blanchisseur
Sub-Total                                                        59 376   61.200   61,813   10.225   10.225    202.839    156.600                   Total Partiel
Foreign Exchange                                                 52,200   52,200   52,200      -         -          -        156,600       77       Devises
Other Costs                                                                                                                                         Autres Couts de Fonctionnement
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance 2/                    70       10,508   12,593   12,593   12,593   12,593       60,880      44,457       73       Fonctionnement et entretied
Subsistence for Trainees 3/                             20        3,870    5,108    5,108    5,108    5,108       24,302       5,464       22       Subsistance des stagiaires-
Demonstration Materials/Films                           80        3,384    3,384    3,384    3,384    3,384       16,920      13,920       82       Matériels de démonstration/films
Upkeep of Animals                                       20        1,238    1,238    1,238    1,238    1,238        6,190       1,392        22      Entretien des animaux
Maintenance of Buildings 4/                             30        1,572    3,144    3,144    3,144    3,144       14,148       4,698        33      Entretien des bâtiments 4/
Counterpart Training                                   100         -       2,610      -        -         -         2,610       2,610       100      Stage à l'etranger de l'homologue
Utilities, Electricity, etc.                            30          550      550       550      550       550      2,750         922       34       Fonctionnement du groupe electricité
Office Supplies                                         60          329      329       329      329       329      _1645       1,044        63      Equipements de bureau
Sub-Total                                                        21 451   28 956  26346   26 346   26.346    129_445          74.507       57       Total partiel
Foreign Exchange                                                 12,511   17,470   14,842   14,842   14,842         -         74,507                Devises
Total Ngabu Salaries and Other Costs                             80 827   90.156   88,159   36 57l   36.571    332,284                              Total Salaires et Autres Dépenses -
Ngabu
Total Foreign Exchange                                           64,711   69,670   67,042   14,842   14,842         -        231,107                Total Devises
1/  Including family and other allowances.                                                 1/  Y compris, allocations familiales, voyages et cong4s, etc.
2/  25,000 km/year landrovers 14.2 K/km and lorries 21.7 K/km.                             2/  25.000 km/an à 14,2 K/km le landrovers et 21,7 K/km pour les camions.
3/  Z 1 for 15 courses of 11 days for 20 men.                                              3/  Z 1 pour 15 stages de 11 jours pour 20 participants.
4/  2% of estimated value of Z 157,200.                                                    4/  2% de la valeur des batiments estimée à Z 157 .200.
July 23, 1976                                                                              le 23 juillet 1976



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         PROJE1' DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Investment and Operating Costs of Film  and Visual Aids Unit                      Conts d'InvestiSsement et de Fonctionnement pour l'Unité
and Upkeep Costs for Project Student Courses at Totoba and Gopka                     Mobile Audio-Visuelle et pour les Couts de Pension des
(Z)                                                               Cours d'Etudiant à Totoba et Gopka
(zaires)
Foreign       Foreign
Unit Cost/         -------------------Year/Année----------------            Total/       Exchange/    Exchange/
Cout Unité         1           2           3           4           5        Total        Devises       Devises
Total            T
INVEST1ENTS                                                                                                                                                            INVESTISSEMENTS
Visual Aid Van and Equipment                     17,400         17,400         -           -         17,400        -        34,800        34,800         100      Camion audio-visuel et projections
Audio Visual Aid Materials and Equipment          4,250          2,550       1.700         -           _           1.700      5.950        4.900          82      Matériel audiovisuel et équipement
Total Cost                                                 19,950      1.700          _         17.400       1.700    40.750         39.700                 Cout total
Foreign Exchange                                                19,500       1,400         -         17,400       1,400                   39,700          97      Devises
OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                                                        COUTS D 'EXPLOITATION
Salaries and Allovances 1/                                                                                                                                             Salaires et allocations 1/
Driver                                              575            440         575          575         575          575      2,740         _             -       Chauffeut
Visual Aida Operator                                925            690         925          925         925         925      4 390          -             _       Oprateur audio-visuel
Total Personnel Cos ts                                      1.130      1.500         1.500       j~5         1.500      7.130               _               CoAt total personnel
Other Costs                                                                                                                                                            Autres Cours
Operation of Vehicle and Equipment 2/             6,700          5,025      6,700         6,700       6,700       6,700    31,825         23,140         73       Fonctionnement des véhicules et d'équipement
Local Traval and Subsistencs                       -                165        330          330         330          330      1,485           960        65       Frais de déplacement h l'intérieur
VisuLl kide *nd Mater.als/Films                                     -          830        1,660       1,660       1,660       5.810        4,270         73       Matériel visuel/achat films
Mintndhce bf trainees 3/                           -                770      1.559        1.550       1.550        1.550      6,970        1.570         22       Pension des stagiaires 3/
Total Other Costa                                           5.960      9.410       10 240       10,240      10.240    46.090         29.940                  Total Autres Coats
Foreign hchange                                                  3,930      6,060         6,650       6,650       6.650        -          29,940         65       Devises
Total Op.rating Costa                                            7.090    10.910         11.740      11.740       11.740    53.220        29.940         56       Total Coûts de fonctionnement
Devises
1/  Includes faily and other allowances.                                                                     1/  Allocations familiales et autresinclus.
2/  2,500 km/yr Z 5,430 plus repairs and operations of other equipment.                                      2/  2.500 km/an Z 5 430 plus réparations et fonctionnement des autres équipements.
3/  5 10-day training sessions for 20 people at Z 1.55 per day.                                              3/  5 stages de 10 jours pour 20 stagiaires à 1,55 zaires par Jour.
June 22, 1976                                                                                                le 22 juin 1976
5>4
o 
J'-



ANNEX 5
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranches
A. Background
General
1.        The highlying savannah areas of Ituri region have a high potential
for stock raising. Before Independence Europeans established farms and
ranches with over 60,000 head of beef and dairy cattle in this area to
supply fresh meat and milk to the plantations, mines and the population
of the Upper Ituri region. Cattle on the Ituri ranches were mostly local
Lugware, Alur and Bahema breeds. European breeds - primarily Friesian,
Brown Swiss, Shorthorn, and Jersey - were also used to upgrade local breeds;
the cross-breeds exhibited substantially improved milk and meat yields.
2.        The Nioka research center ran a successful program to improve
the performance of local breeds for more than twenty years during the pre-
Independence period and demonstrated the value of cross breeding with
European breeds of cattle. Research on pastures was mainly concentrated
on efficient utilization of natural pastures by paddocking, rotational
grazing and selective weeding-out of unpalatable grass species. Trials
with improved grass species and legumes were also promising. Ituri ranches
benefited from these results and up to Independence Ituri farmers were moving
from an extensive system of farming to a more intensive system approaching
one animal per hectare.
3.        The civil unrest of the 1960's led to the departure of the European
farmers and the depletion of the ranches so that by 1975 only 10,000 head of
cattle remained on a few larger farms. The Nioka research station also went
through a difficult period but is being revived and restaffed with the aid
of German Technical Assistance. The station presently has 2,700 cattle on
11,000 ha (2,500 ha fenced).
Government's Objective
4.        The Government wishes to see the large farm sector restored to:
(a) increase meat production by stocking up the ranches;
(b) absorb and fatten immature and unfinished young stock
from the traditional herds;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c)  develop a larger number of improved breeding animals,
bulls and heifers, for the traditional sector;
(d)  develop a nucleus herd of crossbred dairy animals by
using dairy bulls for future development of a small-
holder dairy industry.
5.        The Government has chosen to develop first the ranches presently
administered by "Office des Mines d'Or de Kilo-Moto". The responsibility
for development of these ranches would be transferred to the State ranching
organization, ONDE.  The mission was asked to consider the financing of five
ranches totalling 26,600 ha with about 3,000 head of cattle. Before 1959
these ranches had about 20,000 head of cattle. Kerekere the largest ranch
is located in the North. Asada and Ladde are located near each other about
60 km South of Kerekere. Near Bunia to the South is Dele ranch, which
consists of four farms:  Dele, Makabo, Tindah and Songolo.  Yegu farm is
located near the mining headquarters of Bambumines, North of Bunia. The
situation of these ranches before Independence, at present and proposed for
full Project development are as follows:
---Head of Cattle--------------
1959        1975        1985
Ranch                Zone        Area       (Mission               On Project
(ha)      Estimate)               Ranches
Kerekere           Mahagi       16,600        9,000      2,425       11,080
(4 farms)
Asada                 "          5,000        4,000         260       3,280
Ladde                 "          5,000        2,500           0         -
Yegu               Djugu         1,320          500         400         -
Dele (4 farms)      Irumu        5,000        4,000         817       4,320
Total Ranches                   32,920       20,000      3,902       18,680
Project Ranches                 26,600          -         3,460      18,680
6.        The mission does not support investment in Yegu and Ladde ranches
at this stage. Yegu, a dairy and forest farm, was excluded because it is
adequately developed for its present purpose and is closely integrated with
the mining operation. Due to the collapse of a major bridge Ladde is now



ANNEX 5
Page 3
inaccessible and its investment requirements are not known. The ranches
chosen for development would be sufficient to absorb the projected number
of breeding and fattening stock available from the traditional sector. The
three ranches selected for development, Kerekere, Asada and Dele cover
26,600 ha and presently have about 2,700 head of cattle.
B. General Features of Ituri Project Ranches
Ecology
7.        The three Project ranches are located a little north of the equa-
tor at about the latitude 2  and longitude between 300 and 310   The
altitude ranges from 1,200 m to 1,400 m. Rainfall on the ranches varies
from 1,300 mm to 1,500 mm and is fairly well distributed over most of
the year. The dry season lasts between 3 and 4 months in the North, where
Kerekere and Asada ranches are situtated and from 2 to 3 months in the South
at Dele ranch. The dry months are December, January and February. Tempera-
tures vary from 12°C to 270C.  The land is hilly and well watered.  The
vegetation consists of open savannahs with grasses of Hyparrhenia, Loudetia,
Eragrostis and Cymbopogon.  Forest areas can be found along streams.   The
temperate climate, ample rainfall and good grassland give the area a good
potential for cattle raising.
Present State of Ranches
8.        The ranches are in a run-down condition due to inadequate manage-
ment and lack of funds for proper maintenance and operation. Present income
barely covers essential operating costs. Records and accounting systems are
poor. The Ranch Manager, a local Zairian is inexperienced in modern ranching
techniques and although he tries hard he has too much to supervise and few
staff with any qualification to help him. The ranches are connected by poor
roads and he and his staff are often without means of transport.
Grazing and Cattle Management
9.        The ranches have no systematic grazing management and utilization
of pastures is poor. At present only a small part of the area is used.
Most fences are broken and cattle are herded during the day and driven into
kraals at night. Unutilized pastures are burnt periodically and often grazed
by neighboring traditional herds. Parts of some ranches have been overgrazed
in the past and invasion of unpalatable grasses and bush have occurred.
10.       Management of cattle is weak.  Good animal husbandry practices
are neglected. Few calves are castrated. Some bulls are of poor quality.
Irregular supplies of drugs and dipping materials as well as total lack of



ANNEX 5
Page 4
mineral salts has led to high mortality, poor growth rates and low calving
percentages. The cattle are generally of a poorer quality and smaller than
those of a similar breed at Nioka.
11.       Cattle are divided in small herds of 60-120 head.  The ratio of
herders per 100 animals is too high. The Ranch Manager has too many ranches
to supervise, connected with poor roads, and is often without any means of
transport. He also has few qualified staff to assist him.
Animal Health
12.       Mortality of calves and other stock on the ranches is high.  Prin-
cipal causes are East Coast Fever, Anaplasmosis and Piroplasmosis. Anthrax is
also present.  Tsetse flies are sometimes found in the lower forest galleries
but Trypanosomiasis is not a serious problem on the Project ranches. Liver
Fluke and internal parasites are common and require regular treatment.
Cysticercosis is present and control methods are required to cut down its
incidence.
C. General Project Objectives
Ranch Development and Production
13.       The objectives of developing the three Project ranches will be
three-fold, namely: to increase beef production to the pre-Independence
level, absorb and fatten surplus unfinished cattle from the traditional sec-
tor and provide dairy-type heifers to the smallholders as a basis for a
future dairy scheme in Ituri. Beef production will take place on all three
ranches by building up breeding herds and purchasing and fattening unfinished
cattle. The existing small breeding herds on Kerekere and Dele ranches will
be enlarged by purchasing 1,500 heifers. Half would come from traditional
farmers and half might be Boran heifers from Kenya. At the same time about
100 good breeding bulls will be purchased to upgrade the breeding herds,
partly by purchasing bulls from the Nioka Station and partly by importing
dual purpose dairy bulls from Kenya. Breeding herd and fatteners cattle
numbers would be expanded from the present 2,500 head (A.U.) to about 7,300
head at full development and about 660 beef cattle and about 220 culled cows
will be sold from the two breeding herds. In addition if dairy bulls are
used from Year 8 a considerable number of upgraded, dairy heifers will
be available and could be the basis of a milk scheme for smallholders in
Ituri. At full development almost 400 dairy heifers annually would be avail-
able for such a scheme.
14.       Fattening of cattle purchased from the traditional herd will take
place on all three ranches. To simplify management, Asada will only fatten



ANNEX 5
Page 5
cattle while Kerekere and Dele ranches will have both fattening and breeding
activities. Two types of cattle will be purchased for fattening:
(a) immature younger steers and bulls around 140 kg liveweight
to be fattened for two years and sold at 300-310 kg live-
weight; and
(b) older steers and bulls of about 185 kg liveweight and fat-
tened during a 6-9 months period and sold at about 290 kg
liveweight.
To purchase the stock Ranch Managers will attend local markets or use the
service of ONDE's Buyer's purchasing stock for the Bunia abattoir. About
7,000 steers annually would be brought for the 3 ranches.
15.       A number of improvements on ranches will be made.  Ranch infra-
structure will be built up to reasonable standards, fire-breaks, road and
bridges will be built or repaired, bush cleared, Stylosanthes and other
leguminous plants introduced, perimeter fences, paddocks and night-kraals
rebuilt to implement rotational grazing, herd management will be improved
through proper animal husbandry practices (castration, marking, culling,
record-keeping, etc.). Animal health control will be strengthened by building
and repairing dipping-tanks, timely supplying of drugs and vaccines, training
of existing personnel and recruiting more personnel in line with increased
herd numbers. Vehicles will be purchased for pasture improvement and other
ranch work. Four-wheel drive vehicles, motorcyles and bicycles will be
provided to ensure transport of key personnel.
Marketing
16.       At present most beef produced on Kilo-Moto ranches is reserved
for sale at a subsidized price to the population of the mines. Of the 300
animals presently produced on the farms 250 are trekked to the mines for
sale and the remainder are sold locally. The mines' annual consumption is
estimated to be 450 head, the remainder being brought in by local traders.
17.       Present production for the 3 ranches should increase to 7,800 head
by Year 10. Ranches will sell to Kilo-Moto the animals needed to feed the
population of the mines at the regular market price and the remainder (about
6,200) will be sold to Bunia abattoir, where they will be processed for ex-
port to Kinshasa. These animals should generally grade lst or 2nd and com-
mand reasonable prices. Animals are currently moved between ranches and to
the mines on the main roads. With the Project, cattle would move on the
rehabilitated stockroute (see Annex 2, paras 43-44).
Organization and Management
18.       The development of the three Project ranches is a difficult task
and strong management and sound organization are musts for a successful



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Project. ONDE will be responsible for the ranch component of the Project.
ONDE is already well established and has gained experience in management of
the ranches in Shaba and now also has a good knowledge of the Bank's proce-
dures (Annex 7). During the Project's build-up the Project ranches will
be managed by an expatriate ranch manager, located at Kerekere ranch, and
assisted by a Zairian deputy ranch manager, who will take over after the
departure of the expatriate ranch manager.
19.       The expatriate Ranch Manager will be responsible to the Director
General of ONDE. Re will be a member of the Project's coordination committee
and coordinate with the main Project on all matters concerning purchase of
fattening stock from the traditional sector and coordination of common aspects
relating to stockroutes and slaughtering of cattle. The Ranch Manager,
besides overseeing harmonious development of all three ranches will be res-
ponsible for training of local staff at all levels. Key ranch staff will be
sent for further training to the new ranch school presently being established
at Muhila ranch under the First Livestock Development Project (PMMK).
Financial Situation and Financing
20.       The financial situation of the ranches in unclear.  The mission
had no access to any financial documents either on the ranches or at the mine
headquarters in Bambumines. It was, therefore, impossible to prepare either
balance sheets or profit and loss account statements. Salaries of ranch em-
ployees and workers are paid by the Kilo-Moto Company, which appears to keep
some accounts for its ranches. Some data on daily or quarterly income and
expenses were also found on each ranch. Based on this information, the mis-
sipon estimates that the ranches are presently operating at a loss. As a
condition of effectiveness the ranches would be transferred to ONDE with all
existing assets and free of liabilities. An inventory of assets would be
made by auditors at project commencement and new accounts established.
21.       At 1975 producer prices Project ranch investment yielded negative
financial rates of return. Using the May 1976 threefold increase in producer
prices as minimum prices and adjusting for cost increases the financial rate
of return on Kerekere was 7%, Dele was 10% and Asada was 12%; Asada's steer
fattening operation being very sensitive to changes in steer prices. The
financial rate of return on the combined ranches was 9%; A 10% increase in
învestment, operating cost and steer purchase price reduced this by 4 percentage
points to 5%. Bearing in mind the risks involved in ranch development and the
need to get acceptable rates of return on capital the mission has determined a
set of prices which will provide an adequate return on ranch investments.
Since the main outcome of the investments will be to produce more first and
second grade meat it is proposed to increase both of these grades by 30% as
follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Official Prices           Proposed
Feb. 1973      May 1976        Prices
------------per kg liveweight--------
Quality steers and heifers
over 350 kg                          .24            .70            .91
Quality steers heifers and
cows in good condition
260-350 kg                      .19            .62           .80
Quality culled bulls and
animals under 260 kg                 .17            .54            .54
Using the proposed prices as minimum prices, ranch development would yield
an overall rate of return of 19%. A sensitivity analysis shows that a 10%
increase in the cost of investments, operating costs and steer prices would
reduce the rate of return by 4% points to 15%; a reduction in income by 10%
would reduce it by 5 points to 14%. A combination of these two factors, which
is a possibility would reduce the return to 11%. The individual financial
rates of return for Kerekere, Dele and Asada are 14, 22 and 25%, respectively.
The lower rates of return on Kerekere and Dele compared with Asada are due to
build up of the breeding herd on these two ranches and the higher rate for
Dele is partly because it is more developed than Kerekere and the income
from steer fattening in the ranch budget has been based on the more profit-
able single year fattening of steers from the traditional herd while Kerekere
herd budgets are based in two year fattening. In practice both ranches are
likely to have an equal number of one year and two year fattening animals.
While the rate of return for Asada ranch is attractive the risks are
appreciably greater than the ranches with a nucleus breeding herd. It is
uncertain whether farmers will always want to sell their unfinished animals
in the quantity and at the time required or at the particularly favorable
price (to the ranch) of only 54 K per kg liveweight. A 10% increase in
costs and 10% decline in benefits would reduce the Asada rate of return to 14%
and a two year delay in achieving benefits would reduce it to 11%.
22.       In considering financing and relative emphasis of development
on the three ranches it would be the initial objective that Kerekere and
Dele ranches would become the nucleus ranches. Although the prime objective
will be the fattening of cattle from the traditional areas it will be necessary
to build up the breeding herds on these two ranches to a level that would
allow them to continue economically and support the management infrastructure
developed without having to depend on fattening stock for income (in case such
stock became unavailable at any time). These ranches would receive priority
for fattening stock and Asada would begin to be developed using surplus
purchased animals that need not to be taken on the other two ranches. It is
therefore, important that the development of the three ranches should be
considered as an integrated unit with development on each taking place in
relation to the overall availability of breeding stock and the build up of the
nucleus breeding herds. In order to build up equity capital on the ranches



ANNEX 5
Page 8
and give them a sound financial structure all funds for fixed investments,
breeding stock and technical assistance will be passed to ONDE as a grant
while working capital for the first three years will be provided as a loan at
11.5%, interest repayable over 20 years commencing repayment in the eighth
year. The working capital loan will involve 100% of operating costs in the
first year, and 100% of incremental costs in years 2 and 3. Ranch income will
fully cover costs by the sixth year. Although Kerekere will have small cash
flow deficits in the development period, the consolidated income from all
ranches should provide a small cash surplus in all years. The margin for
error (or delay) is small and any subsequent cash flow deficits would have to
be met by Government. Ranch profits would accrue to ONDE for the financing of
further livestock development in Zaire.  The following summarizes the finance
required for the three ranches over the 5 years.
Investment     Working                        Estimated
Grant        Capital                       Income from
(Incl. TA)       Loan            Total       Sale of Stock
Kerekere            893            153            1,046            638
Asada               215            114              329            548
Dele                452            143              595            780
1,560           410            1,970          1,966
US$ (1000)      1,793           472            2,265          2,260
D. Kerekere Ranch
23.       This ranch is a complex of four adjacent ranches located 50 km
southwest of Aru and 110 km north of the Nioka Station. Kerekere ranch
of 16,500 ha, includes the two smaller Kalaga and Gelinga ranches (8,400
ha) and Vumba ranch (8,100 ha). The river Aru crosses the ranches and
separates Kerekere and Vumba. The ranch, located 2 degrees North of equator,
at an elevation of 1,350 m, has a relatively temperate climate. There are
two distinct seasons with a 4 months dry season from December to March; the
rainfall is about 1,500 mm; August has the heaviest rain and January is the
driest month. The soil is stony, and the pastures consist of grass species
such Hyparrhenia, Brachiaria and Setaria. Sporobolus, an unpalatable grass,
is invading the pastures in places, and weeding and bush clearing is needed.
Due to lack of fire-breaks the pastures are often burned during the dry
season. Many small rivers cross the ranch. The fences and buildings were
severely damaged during the rebellion period and need to be rebuilt.
24.       The herd is mixed consisting mainly of local Lugware crossed with
Friesian, Brown Swiss and Shorthorn. At present the ranch is stocked with
about 2,400 head of cattle, but the potential capacity is possibly 11,000 head.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
There are about 80 employees, a few Veterinary attendants and a ranch manager
who has a heavy workload overseeing all Kilo-Moto ranches with inadequately
trained people to assist him; records and accounts are in arrears. Manage-
ment needs to be strengthened.
25.       The Project would rehabilitate the infrastructure by setting up new
perimeter fences, building night kraals, establishing fire-breaks and carrying
out bush and weed clearing of pastures. Pasture improvement would be done
during the Project period by planting Stylosanthes seed; equipment would be
provided for this purpose. After the Project period, seed would be harvested
by hand and used for further planting. Houses for staff would be built
and veterinary installations repaired. The Project would stock the ranch by
expanding the existing herd partly by natural growth, partly by importing
Boran heifers from Kenya and partly by upgrading the existing herd with
imported dairy bulls from Kenya. Approximately half of the ranch area would
be used for breeding purposes and the other half for fattening by purchasing
whatever is available of young steers and bulls from the traditional sector;
these steers and bulls would be purchased at approximately 140 kg liveweight,
fattened during a 2-year period and sold at 300-310 kg liveweight; at full
development the ranch would be able to buy about 2,500 young steers annually
from the traditional markets.
26.       The breeding herd would be built up to carry 1,600 breeding cows
and produce about 500 slaughter steers annually and about 300 upgraded
heifers, which would be available for the farmers and form the basis of a
future dairy development scheme in Ituri. A total of 70 breeding bulls would
be needed during the 5 year Project development period. About half of the
bulls would be purchased locally at Nioka breeding station and the balance,
exotic dairy bulls, would be imported from Kenya. Approximately 1,000 heifers
would be purchased during the Project's first 3 years; about half would be
purchased locally and the balance would be Boran heifers imported from
Kenya. Fattening steers would be sold to mining centers in Watsa, Mongwalu
and Nizi with the remainder going to the Bunia abattoir. As the ranch is
without any means of transportation for its management and staff, the Project
would provide a truck, tractors and 4-wheel drive vehicles for the ranch.
Management of the ranch would be strengthened by recruitment of an expatriate
ranch manager based at Kerekere ranch; he would also supervise development of
Asada and Dele ranches.
27.       Herd projection, investment costs, operating costs and cash flows
are given in Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5. Although the ranch would receive some
income from sales of stock, in the first 5 years an additional Z 1 million
would be required of which Z 873,000 would be for investments and Z 153,000
would be for working capital. Income from sales should exceed expenses in
Year 8 with deficits being met from surpluses from other ranches.
E. Asada Ranch
28.       Asada ranch is situated on the Asada river some 60 km south of
Kerekere ranch and about 160 km north of Bambumines, the Kilo-Moto gold mine



ANNEX 5
Page 10
headquarters. The ranch is located in open country and covers about 5,000
ha of which about 4,000 ha is good pasture land consisting of grasses such as
Panicum Maximum, Loudetia, Hyparrhenia and Setaria. The pastures are better
than at Kerekere ranch. The dry season lasts about 4 months between October
and February and the heaviest rain falls in August and September. The ranch
used to carry 4,000 head of cattle but at present has only 260 head, recently
transferred from Kerekere ranch. The ranch is supervised by the Ranch Manager
at Kerekere. The infrastructure of Asada ranch is fairly good; most houses
for ranch personnel are intact, but fences are broken and there is some bush
invasion.
29.       The adjacent Ladde ranch of about 5,000 ha used to stock 2,500
head of cattle but is now completely abandoned; houses are demolished and
bridges and roads deteriorated; squatters occupy many parts of the area.
30.       In order to simplify management of all ranches, only fattening of
steers would take place at Asada ranch. At full development approximatley
1,000 steers for fattening over 2 years and 1,500 one year fattening steers
would be purchased annually. The expatriate ranch manager at Kerekere ranch,
60 km away, would supervise Asada ranch which would be run by a Zairian, an
Assistant Veterinarian (A2). The main investment items would be perimeter
fencing, establishment of fire-breaks, some bush clearing, construction of
a few houses, purchase of vehicles and motorcycles, equipment for pasture
improvement and Stylosanthes seed.
31.       Herd projection, investment costs, operating costs and cash flows
are given in Tables 6, 7, 8 and 9. Finance would be required for the first
5 years for ranch improvements and financing the purchase of steers and work-
ing capital.  Income from sales should exceed expenses in year 6.  Although
the ranch would receive income from sale of stock, in the first 5 years an
additional Z 329,000 would be required of which Z 215,000 would be for invest-
ments and Z 114,000 for incremental working capital.
F. Dele Ranch
32.       The ranch consists of four sectors:  Dele (1,200 ha), Makabo (1,300
ha), Tindah (1,200 ha) and Songolo (1,300 ha), a total of 5,000 ha. The
ranch is located 5 km south of Bunia, the Project headquarters. Both Dele,
Makabo and Tindah have flat open land with fairly good pastures of Hyparr-
henia diplandra, Imperata and Loudetia; the unpalatable grass Sporobolus is
invading and lowering the quality of the pastures; the land of Songolo sector
is hilly and has an altitude of 1,240 m. The river Tindah crosses the area
The bridge over the Tindah river between Makabo and Tindah sectors has
been seriously damaged and is in need of repair to allow the development of
Tindah and Songolo sectors. The annual rainfall is about 1,200 mm with a
3 month dry season from December to February. The infrastructure is deteri-
orating; 800 ha of Dele sector has fences, access roads need to be improved,



ANNEX 5
Page Il
demolished houses to be reconstructed, a bridge repaired, fences repaired,
fire-breaks made, and dipping tanks rebuilt. There is a small herd of about
800 head of cattle, mainly crosses between the local Bahema cattle (Ankole
breed) and Brown Swiss and other exotic breeds.
33.       Common diseases on the ranch are Liver Fluke (Distomatose) and
East Coast Fever (Theirleriose); weekly dipping of cattle is necessary.
Inoculation against Blackleg (Charbon Symptomatic) is needed once a year.
34.       At full development the ranch would carry about 4,000 head of
cattle. Both breeding and fattening operations would take place. The breed-
ing herd would be increased to 600 breeding cows, partly by expanding and
improving the existing herd, partly by purchase of local heifers and partly
by import of Boran heifers from Kenya. During the 5 year Project period 28
breeding bulls would be needed of which about half would be exotic dairy
bulls from Kenya; about 110 crossbred dairy heifers would then be available
annually to the traditional livestock sector. Approximately 60 culled cows
and 180 steers would be available for slaughter. For fattening purposes
about 2,000 steers and bulls (2-3 years old) would be purchased annually,
making about 1,900 steers available for slaughter at Bunia abattoir. Pad-
docks would be re-established to practice a systematic grazing. As fires
often occur on the pastures, fire-breaks would be established and further
pasture improvements undertaken by planting of Stylosanthes.
35.       The expatriate manager would oversee operations but the ranch would
be run by a Zairian with veterinary or animal production training of the A2
level. The main investment items would be fencing, establishment of fire-
breaks, some bush clearing, construction of few houses, purchase of vehicle
and motorcycle, dips and equipment for pasture improvement and Stylosanthes
seed.
36.       Herd projection, investment costs, operating costs and cash flows
are given in Tables 10, 11, 12 and 13. Finance would be required for the
first 5 years for ranch improvements and the financing for the purchase of
steers and working capital. Income from sales should exceed expenses in Year
5. Although the ranch would receive some income from sales of stock, in the
first 5 years an additional Z 595,000 would be required of which Z 452,000
would be for investments and Z 143,000 for incremental working capital.



MIRE
ITURI 11STDCK DEVELOFtTIT PROJECT                                                                        5EVBLOFPEBt  DE L'ELEVAGE EN 75h50
Eerekere. Bale end A-tds Banches                                                                   anIls. de Etrlere, dO Dele et dA-do
Source  end Arellcetien cf Fends                                                                        Orifice et Emploi des Fonda
Enfers Devetopeent-yeare/dasod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zates
Befor .-   lpEn                    -----------------~~~~~-------------------------------------___-____________________________________
Avant dvnloppeeet             1          2          5          4          5           6          7          8          9           10-20
OURiCE SOF  NDg                                                                                                                                                                               ORIGINE  DES FONDS
Sales                                         41,214               47,270    219,830     372,650   585,080    741,720    884,490   1,137,970   1,505,320  1,859,430  1,940,770                Ventes
DereîepPnst «cent V                                               305,750    472,515      349,825   233,210    198,825                                                                        Doc peur le dévrl.ppencct 1/
Dev-lopte-t LO- D2                                                211,938    101,507       96,557                                                                                             P         I .g tee 2/
Total Serces                                  41.214              564,958    793852      819,032   818 20    940.545    884.490   1.157.970   1.502.520  1.859.430  5.940.770                 total des Fonde Disconiblns
USE OF F5MD1                                                                                                                                                                                  BIO; des Fende
Fitrd  Cevestsent teste                                           176,55o    3D8,190     248,500   166,260    142,250                                                                         Coûts d-tnPostteseit en caFitel
FPrchesr ef B-eedieg Cettle                                        77,000    112,125       49,125    14,750      4,375                                                                        Achat de Bacail d'Eleveg-
Capitl Rplacearet Ctsts                                                                                        89,055     53,405      40,260       12,325     96,300      60,479             Coûte de Re,pl-crerut du Cepilrs
opecatteg Cost. /                             42,306              176,418    227,945     259,432   275,296    296,306    275,950    305,085        318,817    320,035      319,705            Cnûts dEnploit-tioa V/
Fssrchas  ef Fsttenieg Steck                                       87,720    137,700      202,770   275,400    370,710    488,700      614,250     614,250    614,250      614,250            Acbht de Bétail d'EsonchIe
Io onatalnente S_106 599    io6,599                                                                                                                                        106,599            Bsabcersente du FrEt S
TOTAL OSES                                    42,306           ....s 6Pl'iA  785,960      759,827   751.706    902.696    81B 055    959,595   1,051.991  1 137.184   1.101.033               Total des Fendest Y- od.
Annuel Bassine (Defii0                        (i<,o86)             47.270       7.d92      59.i25    86;584     3L849       66_435    178,375      453,329    722,246      8397357             Ecédeet ion déficit) anuel de trésererîs
SOURCE  Tabla 5, 9 .d 13.                                                                                                                    SOURCE: Tebûlae  5, 9 et 13
Il    Iclsding fijd inrestasat co-te. perchse ef brsedig sndimle *nd techaical   eisttY /                                                                 cbéeil
2t   Werkidg Cspita1,100% ef eprerting .onts ti  fitst Y.-   nd 100% cf                                                                          Fonde O      s        107. des .oSis drap
incronnetal c.et in yeenr  2 and 3.                                                                                                        d'eotoî tairan euoplé-rnnttrn penrîrs aac,Aesrtâ    .  la pronserecrér et 190% dn cdîtte
6/   Techoiral essistence ineonded                                                                                                           6/, Aaeietaecs tccbctqus incluse                                                                              b
1t Inceret et 11.5%. Rep-yarert orn  13 yTsrs, 7 ya-rs gf-ce perlnd for both itterret cod principal                                          6   Intérêt h 11,5% P.n ,ne  Senti on 13 n- eprèb 7  na deciorttssesnnt pour paJcaent dt6îêt  t
6     Ayerage r            -pl-eoeset conte for y-ars 10-20                                                                                      reobouanet do Brindoaln
/ 'doyenne ors coûte de reaplerreont pour re- nande. 10-20
July 15, 1976                                                                                                                                 r5 3-11sf 1978



54550
ITReI LIVE6TOCK DEV0L1OFl50T PROJECT                                               PROJET De DIVElDOPENMENT DE Lî'LEVAGE EN ITU15I
Keracce Enacb - 16.600 ha I/                                                          Daceh de Kerekere - 16,600 ha î/
Hard FPojection                                                                   Scuiîn du 3r,uuesu
Withot Project/           ___a----_____       -  _  -_ ----- -cY-/Aé-ée              ___________- _____________ ______________
8-a proJet              1         2        3        4         5        6         7        8        9         îî        11-20
MerS 0tocsttioa                                                                                                                                                                    Cepoloiti.n du troupeau
bRuls                                         53                     38        38        43        61      63       64        64       64        64       64          64      Tasessx
Breedi.g C-                                 685                     819       793     1,107    1,673   1,    600 1, 600    î,6oo     î,Ee    i,t600    1, 6o       1,600      Vaches reproductrices
Calves Wesaed                               574                     273       1532      55        775   1,171    1,120    1,120    1,120    1,120    1,120         1,120      Veaux  -evé  s
ReIera- 1-2 yens                             221                    273       196       SDI       2410    378       î68      543      543       543      543         543      Gésns..s 1-2 ai
Restera 2-3 yens                              97                     460      762       190       247     242      367       551      527       527      527         527      Géani-a 2-3 ans
ReiSera 3-4 pasys                            242                     92       442       732       184     240      235       556      534       Sll      Sll         Sll    Gléi.e..  3-4 ac
Steera 1-2 y-srs                             316                    273       197       255       249     377      567       543      543       543      543         543      Buvill.s. 1-2 ...
Stuers 2-3 yens                               64                    300       262       189       247     241      366       550      527       527      527         527      BoueIll-na 2-3   a
stDeru 3-4 year-                             116                     61       288       252       183     240      234       355      533       Sl       511         Sll      Bouvillona 3-4 ns
Steeru 4-5 yearu                             61                     110        59       276       244     178      233       227      344       517      496         496      Bouvillone  2  axe
iteere avec S re r-                           16                     58        -         -         -       -         -        -         -        -        -           -        Boefsa a  pln  d. S est
Ste-rs an, hile 2 sens, Paehased J/           -                     332       475       665    1,092   1.,710    2,375    2,375    2,375    2,375    2,375         2,375     BRuvlîlona et tauxillcss de 2 eu   ahues 2/
Steere aad Buila 3 ye--, Purhased  J-    _                                              315       451     632    1 037  1,624    2,256    2 256    2.256           215         BRouvillccu et tausill-8a de 3  a, ucheta 2'
Total AeaIle                              2,425                   3,227       _          2 4-794    5656   7 072    8786    g 908   12.966   11,094   11.073      11,073      »-b.re tutus d-sihas
T.ala   AdU.  /                            1c18                   2,816    38  _94279  4Aô88    . 901    7 645    8,788    9,                   2 9     995        9953        U.GsB.  tatle 2/
M.rtality                                                                                                                                                                           Nortalité
Bhle                                          -                        2        2         2         1       2         2        2         2        2        2           2      Taureaux
Cole and replace=enal                         -                       46       36        49       5S       56       55        55       59        64       63          63      Vaches et gass..es pleins
Reiera. 1-2 yens                                                      14        8        il         a      il        î8       17        17       17       17          17      Génisses 1-2ax
h;ie re 2-3 pare                              -                       51       il         8         8       8        il       17        16       16       16          16      Géni ses 2-3 
Hetiers 3-4 yens                              -                       S        18        30        13       7        7        il       17        16       16          16      Génisses 3-4 yens
Steera 1-2 ye-s                                                       1 14      8        11         8      10        18       17       17        17       17          17      Bac-illc..  1-2 use
Steer- 2-3 yens                               -                      16        Il         B         B       8        il       17        16       16       16          16      Boueillans 2-3 uts
Steers 3-4yesrs Y                                                     3        12        10         6       7        7        il        17       16       16          16      BRoilln..  3-4.
Bteere4-S yeara                               _                        6        2        12         8       7        7         7        il       14       il          15      B.-vllc... -S--
Dmt-raaverîpeY.-.                                                      4        7         2         8       7         5        7         7       12       t           il       Rceuispluesessa
Steer  arcd Ruile 2 yenrs, Purches .  d                               18       28 55               35      16        90      125       125      125      125         125       Boutillcut et taurîilloa 2  se  a4hetén 2/
iterasund hulea 3 panea, PDrchased 4/    _                           _         1,7       17       24       33       55        86      119       119      119         119      Scueillona et teelllass 2 sas, achetés 2/
Tala Mortality                              _                       129      110       185       182     211      286       372       423      434      438         47       Noritlité totale
P     .rchases                                                                                                                                                                      Achts
hiules  j1/                                   -                       10       10        1S        25      10         9        8         8        8         8          8      Taoeeasx4/
4'eîirer2'/                                   _                     250       500       250         0       S         0        5         O        0        0 oO               G4nissn /
Steer-  an  Ruile 2 yens, Purxhaeed                                  35       356       50E       700   1,150    180       2sno    2.500       200    2,500        2,500     BRcuvillase et taurilloas 2 as * acbeté    W
Tattl Purchases                              _                       610      860       765       125   1,160    1809    2508    2508    2 508    2,508            2s0         athats .stese
Sales                                                                                                                                                                              Ventes
Ctoled Cuit                                   50                      62       82        79       111     167       160      160       lE0      160       i60        160       Vaches Se rdioree
Reiais 3-4 Ye                                  o                       0        0          0        0      34        25       20       137      310       288        288       Géni.e. 3-4 -sa
-îseru cnt S yes                             150                      15      161        57       268     237       173      226       220      334       soi        481      BReecai de plus de  S
C011ai  bldls                                  2                       3        8         8         6       6         6        6         6        6        6           6       T ureauéderéiote
Stlern5 purchased V                            0                               - _      3t        311S    c1        632    1.037    1624    2.256    2256          2,256       Boevillen, schetl   2/
Totai Dale                                  202                      80      251       459       70-     89ç5             1,449    2,147    3,.66    3_211       23,19        Vestes totales
Tec4hical Coeniicientc                                                                                                                                                              Coeiflcteatc techalgoe.
Weaning Rte                                   -                       60       65         65       70      70        7n       70        70       70        70         70       Ta  a.ie s         ge %
AcullSt artlity %               -             -                        5        4          4        3       3         3        3         3        3         3          3       T    de ortalité des  dulteu  -.
mYrtality - St-era porabsad    5/             -                        S        5          I        S            5             s         S        S         S          S       Taux 6  =ortaéitf - bhuvllaoe   achetas 6/
Cea  Colling Date %                           -                        9       10         10          10    10        10      10        il       10        10         10       Taux de nehte de rf,a_se
BRol Culinig Rate %                           -                       10       20         20       15       1S       10       10        10       10        10         10       Taux de t-are-os de refir_
Stlcking 2ale - ha/A.U.                       -                      5.9      4.4       358       9.7     3.1       2.3      1.9       1.7      1.7       1.7        1.7       T.ax de ehtege - ha/V0..B.
9/ Kerehere Rasai incluSes Vu-ba, GelIaga aad Kalega Fan=v; sppruaicately half i     f tle t ereado ouile bv               10 esol de Kvrekere  cxprend lca ternes Or Votas, Oclioga et Kalaga, eneScos Is scElle  dc la
uSd fto  bredg  Snd thle oth-r hale fSr fatteailg purpase.                                                             cupeefirie secs utulteer paix le P  coaposu d'dlecatc at laulce nitîa  sou, leabeacle.
4    . Pur ta it  a    18-24 pccsa; puacisecéd st 140 k6 LW, sab    t 300 tc  310 kg LW.                               3/  Pour ct hotel dc, 18-24 acta; -sht1e   140 kg de p            Iils of, ot-dus b 300-310 kg de pcids oIf.
7/ tala  satees  elsu  calots -cead.                                                                                     N- ocîr  total O'acs -clsici I      enu  sevrs. 
Pcreiared partly fer  Nich  nd i                                                                                       Aportt  S   Achetev cu partie h Niok et itputa Ie.do KaaYe.
/  Taclodes both loailîy pacahaeId CSob) and  i.ported (504)                                                           5/  Coeprtcd orlieo scîrtéca iccaleuca (5D7,) et acelas
§/ Include 2b lov2es                                                                    6/ iv^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tpsrtécs 15513
1TIler  2% lygee.                                                                                                      6/  Occlus    e  a1r9,S.
sucettr 21, 1971                                                                                                       Z  20 1- -a'en17



Z41R0
12T10  LIVESTOCKC DIVInFIENTC Pl002CT                              1003T lE îtVl'ttOpIEIlT DE t OL2EST1AOC El' 1_01TatoTaeI 
Ke-k.re tarot - 16.O00 ha 4/                                           taonS de es,r.     16.600 ha 4
It-oso..s  Caste                                                      C.tousdIoateao
Tat Yrt  "u ,Aad  1    Coe", Mad  2    Xo             A..$L f.J    lest- 47Ann    4     Tat  oaeI            Total Year  1-1/    TtlCs/otTtl                     aot
t,loUn             ..    9331l7'9nt          lts        o       toitsl.    C-e/ lte,           ls/       oel          e       Total Anode  1-0                        aet          aha
u~~i,6    .U~~~ p-  -ité   utité.    Cût    uitê ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~      ~      totéa          oût     oast            ravsast
OrtAg.                                  rEoh          2,0é0           -                             ,02t    -                                -                              1          2,080     1,180              9002      43      Pont
Ptrrbr-kl  sud Tc-kt                     Y.Il             16         13           160    10O         160    10           lût    10           100      10          100      50            9000      900                O        I      Cor-Foo  plates 3
Peooee 3/                      Ils~~~~~~~K    '10          10        5,Oot    20        11,600    10       il,6ot    20        i îî,C0     p0       îî,ioo      90          02,200    18,170          53,930        65      îtos
Nigt0k0-1cat                            lent             000.                   3,450     5        3,0150     I        3,451         ,00               b "40    3,450      25         17,210     6,040           11,2 10      55      ornaI  do Naît43
Bush Tîoiû5                               n14                       500        9 000    0          9000 O  I 500      39903   500          90.00    lOi         9.000  2,500          45.000   45.000              -           -      theuaitrn   5/
rab-Tarot                                                                     18.430              26,310              24,230              24.230               24.230                117.430   71,539            336,O40              Total Poctto1
Ooildiuns anA tcotsl Failitltls                                                                                                                                                                                                          B001tiautettlsolBloeFotrtaIt
Cnnteottou af D0pp008 T-k  E/ lah                     9e5Oi           -                            0,500     -                   -          -                                1         9,500     5,410            4,050       43     Toaoolrdo batela dtonorole i. /
Deal ni  1000D4p0  Took 7/               ta           3,1b40                              1        3,10      -                                                                         3,140    2e101             1,040       33      tepasottru   -- la.. besto,½,oe    7$
Teu htano                                             1,260           -                            1,26o      t        1,260                -         --         -           2         2,520    1,510               000       30      balaIe A-a  30-0
Co,r,oioa  ootînu teli.'s        tant        12,010                                1      10,000      t       12,000      1       12,8005      1       12,000        4        11,200   36,000            14,340       20         . Cao liott   do la ateon At l'n-uutao
C-rteotoo at                 H....ou  iat  143) FanS  7,3100          -                   2       14,600      2       14e100      2       l'e,Eo0      2       14,600        O        10,400   42,020            o6,350o      26       esratnd   auoreduotclt
Cpnetrootiot aI tt-duoo'  H-             lEnt,        4,700           -                           23,510    10        4710 0     10       47,000      10       47e000       315      164,1500  118,4î0           41,0OIC      26I     Ce...touoltn  As ta outerOs  bouier
Rupaie ni Ocr erra eEourh                               470           10       4,700    10         7,000    21        11,710     -          .                    .          50        235,50   10,020             6>300       20     Rdpacatitad   anieaAeIeîe
Coortron  ai Vete-iors Dlspou...ry  sES~              û,î                                 1        4,800      1        4,6 05                                                2         9,ooî   6,910              2,63        50 a     ostuaîn   A  dtraer   vti-ot
tepaîr nI Otreloay Stupso.... y          leob           460            t          480     2          9c0-o                                      -                            3         1,440    1,o0t               400       208     eaatad   di.,oeat....          eiai-
F-urutr  ord aqian   /                   lt             .040           S       1.700      3       .3.999      t          So      -          -                                6         tilt0       92             4,180       22      Iosbîioc- et               0
Suh-Tnta1                                                                      6SOi               990,19/            031060              74.400               74.400                 328,930  232f210            93,392               Ieîuî toottul
Vobilolo  caO roui-ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vêhiootosot Mltêrîn1
Tel A                                    Ba-S        33.011            T       15,000    .                                                                                            1    -.t î,0îo  4,9350     10,232       67      Casn
Trsator                                  maSh        îîiûîlio                    -        t       11,200O     2       23,600                                                 3         35,400    6,370           20.020       82      Traes
Eqoîp-et j!                              Set          7,100                      -        1        7,100      0       14,200    -           -         .                      3        2130       303              7,470       82      aql2e,ot3
Fnu-45ael Drive lehiola                 tEob         12,000            t       52,40      t       12,..    -            -        -                -                          2        2          4,500    4,32     80;0       Oî      VAhiaule Tou-Teocato
Olntarns'al                              lorS            000           t          00      2        1,0        2        1,200                -                                          3, 000       5405           24û11  2î          mteooyoltoe
Bieyol                                   Esah           128           S           640    10        1,î6t    10         0,1800                                               21         5.200     1,120            1,300       4       oioyloîî
Soit11  Eqaîpuent0/                      Set          1,120            t       1,120      I        0,120o     1        1,120    -           -         -          -3                    4,.560      I20            3,740       Os     Farîr seardlet t~o/
ondi  11/                                .ob          3,320            I       .1 3                                                                      3,30                            13M        Gî            2,772       8î      FSoutetI/
Ou.hTeto1                                                                      33,140             3,04100-                                                                           100,040   23,10            336,330               la-s  Peetie1
Posture I,oroaveaaat                                                                                                                                                       léveîaeeeneeo de p0tneaea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.  âlt.
Ots'tnunotbes leed 33/         to~K             I     5                       250        1,250   210        1,210   210         1.250    250          1,250   1,000         1,000        850            4,150       33     luor S  .de 125yo,-uoh- 12/
Iseohed Frpeeeln            _idOadn      Il               0           -'O1                           400    50           400O   10           400      10          400      200         t 605     1. 100             520       32      Icau  d  brIo
Oab-Taot.1                                                                                         1.0                 1.1                4,,333                j,30                   6, Oîo    t930             4.020               Telo1l.Fotilo
lu-hoor et le-di- Cartle                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Aahet de Détbit
Battu, l,...al INlaka) il,                               375          S        1,271      t        1,6`75     5        1,S7ys    10        3,750       O        t,875       30        11,250   11,250              -           -     Ooao.too   nae   3
3mlle, 'Pperord 13/                                       500         5         2,300     0        2.500    10         5,000    15         7.5040               2,100       40        20,040   67,500            20,000      180      sorn    opcu 
Omr, toro 1 1/                                       135        105       10,825   210       i333 50  21         10,075    .                -               -         10         02,300                       -                  téotse .. e. ulen1 11/
taler, I,pnroa.d 14/                                    132        023       18,300   210        37,510   121       18.250    -           -         .          -         500       .,330,99    -1 33.99                    100      tina,L.p-rue   I4/
SS.bTeta1                                                                     42.992              73_625              42.51               11.250                4.375                121_250   78.232            OS 008               Total1 FctIo1
Teahaloat issîstoaco 33/                                     3~~~~~~~~~~~~51,300  31,340             31,520             31,320               31,320                 i56,Oî0                   156,600       000     Aeaitsteuo  Teohsîqor 15
Onellot Canott1 tsqaleeetu  962,247                                                                  22,755              33,256                 -                    -                  133,252  102,1227           45,975       30       e-rno, do Fonds de   -1- Onltl 6/
TntttlOetOt  Celt                                                               222,017             27,7220             267,810             142,850              135,975              1,041,322   514,017          331.335       51      To,tal CtacSO  urlOe'o
<if rOlat Fatalta Oabooge)                                                  (114,024>          (146,016)           <135,165)            670,600)             105,600)                                                                 <lDa- le-'...
- nold-e Voula, 000000. aad K.1agsuantar.-4   Y ...ol ples soeurs- de Tomba, do G.110ge s  ds  aaa
6/  20-o-deyu par k; t n-des  nI 60 K (osa   abc,                                                                               20 hau-neispre ha  I hoejaed                      60 K.
3]  Orrt-r iourlug naIs'.                                                                                                3/CîSt-r  pdriphnoiqno  -rlet.
Ni 014-lo-el niopoiees 10 ha fac he-d ni 200 ûad.9/Ibel do toit As 10 he  -uit-  pan  oulnpa                                                                                        .A 200 rou
5/20  -e-daY. pe  ha; seul met-dey ni 60 C.                                                                              I      eunsjauepet Sa; -u hoeJa-jnoéu h 60 t.
0/On  dîpiatehrSaantotdoTaaeetc                                                                                           fCcaippipiag tous abra ottstouit dano tr  -tee-  dr p,-ba.
V  ~~ Aiea lu toasta suarno.                                                         3/  etat la sous-caotbta ~~~~de 4ke du  -ste-  As Vota..
Tqutpmst toc vtrelaîl' dlspasery ltîros cîclireane.                                      /Léiqoipeosut p-,,  Os disp-uaevtdîet    orau l.îieeo
2/ luoedre  eottoc, cntey-ontees ad rqntpuatAcpore   evlprt 2-                                                       Y  -ooli  re.r.orqer,  eot-ato,to outécil pou  te dde-1eppsot donpeoga
10/   . ...., eaadoeo.                                                                                                  4/   one  hauh..teteo.
S.b oh-teatou te ha ltit,d te thePejer   -sdi. rotore.k.                                                                      Pas     ooda-        qol  .. set  tllA  ai cdue  dr phartu An p-ejet.
53    kg ured port  or Il5 ha wealy.                                                                                    932   I ku Ard   elr  p-o Sa; 10 ha par oue o ...eot   uauru
43/Frtîs' Ito  litote etatt  sud paotly inotaA.                                                                               E, t  peroio eolll,Ao  h. le aatua de N0oku, or p-rtîstpor
33/   eely 1looly oud p-etîs  toetd,./V  p-etta auhdtue ler...re1 rt  su  patis, tuats
99    ate  oupatrlete .snt ceoutre  setats' te Sa  hlatîd ro ta.ek.o. Ra-h.                                           1   Oe- p.liact  A. a        d-t du  trlu  do  ec   eamuiasA   e,l de tor-oe
we,,log oapltul t iîo0  aI opocutua a... tocf firsu s'e- cd 100% ofiaranl epolteîg oncl  oF f                           /  La inrds Anrneae epAot  1007,  r   ar   epelta do d  b   caleeni se 100% deaa-îta
af ye-  2 o-d 3. CBluoldlrg eIluy nI le.Pouetuo  traS.          egt)                                                       d'eoplit.tsiou aupploostal..a  pee- b- s o   o e  i. <te                      dilo-e   - dîroerO   -moo   eo--té > a,ertea.eOe.... )
NO.TE,  51e 1-1o of far-I s'eu  oapoditerraone-   thao thr pr-j-a  ta fnl1y atetird arA oporaoea1                          NOTE:  ta  lve-  Ire dAps..... de la prauiAre enAeasnr  qos Se projet eut ...aplèot-  lqnipA  et
d-rmi oSe CaI-  yoot.  Dolaye  -old -sdna  shes...         nîne  eea                                                       npA~taolaoo  pu-d-n  la preetAre arde.  tua dAtaI, cldnlr-utoonv               ode dApau.e...
bon 29, 1920                                                                                                               Os 29 juio 1976 ~






--------------5313 568  -------------------------------------                           --- -- -- -- -- -- --   -----T -------- ---   ----------
lA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~318414 
kkk,4338 788548  -  7440.30 68370 -1k 603k                       0334 k54l05~ 6. l'803054.1,573,443  - 563503
1842k32Okk8S363365035 34 rkSk  44  k6  43074                                       4343-W
ibi 1)                                                                     _____4___________
O6kkOO4k/  543034 34630s734,7/                    873 66005,,7530 85 3       0          s           3           7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
7745703 63102  k<705.,sp0,s,,k  S  O    S            4             S            7           7              8            5~~~~~~~~~~~4.I  45       1-
315670kV ~    ~       j                                                                                   ~                                                                                         1                                                                                   W830  Il
5,077    77,384       35,7k5        5k, 50       l3.75         545          0.7           470          4,06,3                     780         3,4           934  3  433
7s8,  -   os                                                                                                                -             -018                                 4k7           574          730         5,3            540          535,43 j                  8
155,,,,,k  688                                                        1,07                    ,33        5, 03          3.35         5,00        80,50         64310        654(3         Sk30       15.13          32,3145505                0382   2 7,,.04,s
4,105183k                                                                                                         5         130140 , k                           40       8440                 303           040         146             ,k440o64o
701443106633    886                                                                                 "O,305133                     33.750       00.523        31,820       03,5       -2-                     -  I                              -            - 1_       31o....  24.4744t1'3.4}
k45.3  4.44  33437  73810473,35                                                               333          403          4337          6,70         2,33          5,30         3.30          6.720       1.33          3,04         k,03        5141.., 088444031    (33.3  7
2333533330.678234/       5160                                           1,15         4,433        5,450         0,650        (.233        4,33          4.333        3,134        4,600         0.333        4170        3335 dî 5,.,4.4, 340) 2
5651s,,, ,,7.3~.1,  (050  /             603                                             750553            5330              5370          5,30         3,30         7,34          3,7oo       7.003           .370       57330        351,4,Il03Il33.26Il.400 7
5334-12/           837                                            kIl         1,350        1,640        4,840         3.340        2,480        ZOOS          22,0        S 334         O,067        5,530       o,so.î,,oS,,, 5/~~~~~~11  411  41
3,,,,, 3                                        20                                            ,03         308          304-         50.30        254-           7.33        024-          74503       55033          25333       3.00          03411  2
44,1.381 404033.3. 0/                                   250                                          2,160 24,334l-            3.333        3,..,..0.0                              434           5.3           ,0           323         520          047.34,
134 . 832 489366                       526                                          2120          4.0101.3733,6k8 ,0370,5803,5k52 .23                                                        2,560          3.330       1.110         l,1418.48403 347333
3033                                                                      3                                              . 3       21      3    13       0 , 4         52       0 , 40                030           203          ,4              .402040013
344437333550                                                                            00          00           71           530           527           30           31           710          5133317                    30        33,043400
13335356                                113                                            385          216          020           253          115          325           305          125         621            120         535        04M3.423
73,0,0yo,                                                                 63                                             3 1l3                     4           76           '.03         100          1.0 13                     .37           470         33,          417    4   0611k,7116






ZATRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK D_LEVEPMENT PROJECT                           PROJET DE DEvELOPPEMENT D3E t' ELEVAE EN ITURI
Kerekere Breeding and Fatteoing Ranch - 16,000 Ha                       Ranch d'Elevage et d'Embouche de Korekere -
16.000 hectares
Sources and Application cf Funda                                 Origines et Emploi des Fonda
(Z)                                                          (Zaîres)
Before
Deveîopment/          --------------------------------------- -Yea /Annee--------    ------------------------------------
-_____________________     Avant                1         2        3         4         5         6        7         8        9       10        11-20
D-eveloppement
Sources of Fonds                                                                                                                                                               Origine des Fonda
Salea                                          32,860          18,820   74,760  114,300  194,500  235,830  256,190  374,160  541,420 772,480 834,440   827,170                 Ventes
Development Grant 1/                                          129,770  249,965  234,560  142,850  135,975         -         -         -       -        -          -           Don pour le développement 1/
Development Loan 2/                                            92,247   27.755   33,256                 -         -         -   P-                     -          -ret a long-terme 2
Total Sources                                  32,860         240,837  352_480  382,116  337.350  371,805  256.190   74,160  541,420 772,480 834,440   827,170                  tal dec Fonds  lanoniea
Uses of Fonds                                                                                                                                                                  Emploi des Fonds
Ficed Investment Costa                                         58,450  143,020  160,740  100,280  1û0,280         -         -         -       -        -          -            Conta d'investias-ment en capital
Cattle Breeding Stock                                          40,000   75,625   42,500   11,250    4,375         -         -         -       -        -          -            Bétail de reproduction
Canital Replacement Coats                                        -         -         -         -      28,555   36,930   34,400    5,370  31,555  35,840    31,266 5'           Coits de remplacement en capital
Operating Costs 3,                                             97,107  124,862  146,778  154,3362  165,332  153,986  172,629  183.652 185,023 184,889   184,889                Conts d'exploitation  _/
PFrchase of Feeder Steers                                      26,460   26,460   37,800   52,920   86,940  136,080  189,000  189,000 189.000 189,000   189,000                 Achat de bétail d' embouche
Loan Instalîmenta 4/                                              -         - -           -         -        -              -      40,266  4,        40,266    40,266          Remboursement du prêt 41
Total Uses                                     33,250       22,017  369,967  387,818  318.812  385,482  326.996  396,029  418,288                   449,995   445,421          Total des Fonds Employes
Annual Cash Surplus (Deficit)                         (390)         18_820  (17,487)  (5,702)  18,538  (13,677) (70,806) (21.869) 123,132 326,636 384,445   381,749                 Excedent (ou déficit) annuel de Trésorerie
1/  Inclnding fixed Invesînent Costs, purchase of breedmng stock  sud Technical Assistance.                I/  Y compris coAts d'investissement fixes, achat de bétail d'levege et assistance technique
2'  Working capital                                                                                       2/  Fonds de roulement.
3'  Techuical Assistante included,                                                                        3/  Assistance technique incluse
4/  Interest at 115%.  Repayment over 13 years, 7 years grace period for both interest                    4/  Intérêt 's 11.57. par an, amorti es  13 ans apreu ' ans d,,ffér4 d' amrtissecent
and prin,ipal                                                                                             pour paiement d'intért et reobourstuent du principal,
51 Average ri placel   t -sts for year. 10-20                                                              5/ Moyenne des coûts ds remplacement pout les annces 10-20. 
July 9, 1976                                                                                               le 9 juillet 1976.



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOFPYiNT PROJECT                                                                 PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
A3ada Ranch - 5,000 h.                                                                                    Ranch dAsada - 5.000 ha
Nerd projection                                                                                         Evolution du Troupeau
WithoutVoj3tet/             --------------------------------  Y       e/r/Ann----------------------------------
Ssn projet               1         2        3        4         5        6         7        a        9-20
Herd CozMosition  g                                                                                                                                                       Coraconition du troupeau Il
Steera 1-2 years                                             34                  142      142      1°0       285      427      665       950      950        9S0     Bouvillons 1-2 ana
Steers 2-5 yeare                                             85                   32      135      155       180      271      406       632      902        902     Buvillons 2-3 ans
Steera 2-3 Ye"rs (9-12 xsnth fattenins)                      _                   îL       380      570       760      950    1,235    1,425    1425        1425      Bouvillons 2-3 aia
Total Animale                                               117                   4       657      895    1,225   12648    2,306    3,007    3,277         3,277    NBsbra total daniaux
Mortality                                                                                                                                                                 Mortalité
Steers 1-2 yesLrs                                             2                   8         8       10        15       23       35        50       50         50     Bo.Illo. 1-2 ans
Steers 2-3 yere                                               4                   2         7        7        10       14        21       33       48         48     Bonvillne 2-3 inn
Steers 2-3 years (9-12 aoth fattenifg)                      -                     1         0       3         40       50        62       72       75         75     Bouvillone 2-3 ana
Total Mortality                                               6                   20       35       47        65       87       121      158      183        173     blort,litd totale
Purohanes                                                                                                                                                                 Achats
Steera 1-2 yeszs                                              O                  150      150      200       300      45o      700    1,000    1,000       1,000     Bouvillons 1-2 ana
Steera 2-3 pears (9-12  anth fattoning)                       B                 200       40       600       800    1.000    1,30      1,50       50       1,500     Bouvillons 2-3 aer
Total Puroebans                                               0                  350      550      8oi    1100    L45o    2,000    2.500    2,500         2,500    Achats Totaux
Salsa                                                                                                                                                                     Ventes
St.era 3-4 years (after 18-24  oath fattening)                ô                   79       30      135       135      180       271      406       632       902     Bouvillons 3-4  ans
St-era 3-4 years (after 9-12   nth fatteninf)                Q                            190      380       570      760       950    1.235    1,425        1,425   Bou-illons 3v4 years
Total SBes                                                    °                   79      220       515      705      940    L221    1.641    2,057        2,327     Ventes totales
Technic*l Coefficients                                                                                                                                                     Coefficie  Tothnie..
Mortality (%) 2/                                             -                     5       5          5        5         5        5        5         5         5     Mortalité () j2//
Stocking Rata - ha/A.U.                                      -                  13.7     7.6        5.6      4.1      3.0       2.2      1.7       1.5       1.5     Teux de charge - ha/hrG.B.
Purchasa Price of 18-24 Month Young Stersa (Z)  7/           -                  25.60   78.40     81.20    85.40    88.20    80.20    88.20    88.20        88.20    Prix d'achat de bouvillons de 18-24 mias (asres) 3/
Purchse price of 24-48 Yonth Fattefing Stars (z) 4/         -                  99.90  103.60    107.30   112.85   116.55   116.55   116.55   116.55    166.55    Prix d'achat des bouvillons d'melebmcho de 24-48 mata (aasrey) 4/
Veight cf Finished Young Btset s Fattenad for 18-24 Northa (kg         T        300    302        320      304      304       306      308       308       310        Poid des bouvillons (kg) engraisaéa pendant 18-24 2aia         Voi Table 
_Weio_t f FLniashed Fattenina Steers Fattns_d for 6-9 Monthl-    Sea Table 3,270    270           271       272      275       278      281      284        287      PFid dsa bouvillns d'enbouche engraissés pendant 6-9 naiis )                   4
1/  1-2 year aId et-sro fattensd for 18-24 mnths 2-3 year oId far 6 ta 9 -ontha.                           1/  Bo.ufa de 1-2 ano engraitaéa  pour 18-24 mois; 2-4 ans pour 6 à 9  ain.C
j/  Includa 2% bases.                                                                                      2/  Inclue 2% perte.
3/ Livea«eight of about 140 kg.                                                                             /  Poids vif approximatif 140 kg; pri. n-yen K/kg.
i/ Liveight of about 185 kg.                                                                               _/ Poids vif approximatif 185 kg; prie royen y/kg.
June 30, 1976                                                                                              le 30 juin 1976                                                                                                         '



UUU7,I LURST0CC _OERRLOFMENT PROJEUT                           FTtOJET DE DEVEI,RP21MENT DU t~'ELEVACE EN 120RI
Acnés Fattenina Ranch- 5.000 ha                    ~Ranc.h d'Eehatekhs d'Asada - S 000 ha
Tact1 TeRre 1-5/   Tact1 CGond         Porsiga   Pa..eige
teei/né  I    sa  2/Année 2    Tyar 5/né              y-sa  4/Année 4    tsa  5/Aneés 3   Total Années 1-3   tot Ttl                Rchn e! Rnossng/
Recel      Unit Canif       Unies!      ma.tI   Rajeaf    Cant    unt,sl Ct st    Reief/    Canif   Rae!                   et!Uitai           i.te         Lonll         Devises    Devises
URER8S<88T CATEGOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CATEOORIE D'IN5VESTISSOIF51T
Fieeheeeks and T-stks  K/.I                                       18            S           90    10            100    10           180      5            90     -           -      30            540         540           -           -      iseos-Osx et pistes Il
Fete  aI                                        Ce               575            4        2,300      a        4,600       O        4,600      8        4,600       8        4,600   36          20,715        7,240       13,460         65    tlantes. 2l
HOgise-Orasl  31                                RE.h             690            R          690      2         1,300      3        2,070      3        2,070       3        2,070   12          0,280         2,900        5,380         65    lira1 de nuits jl
Baslh-CleatiOg 4/                              Ha                 10         2OU         3_600   200          %600   200          3.600   200         3.600   2OU         _3.608 1,000         18.000      18.000           --                 D4brs..ss.tlis-sn  A/
RSh-Taisl                                                                                6,680               9,760               10,450              10,360               10,270               67,320      28,600        18,804                Taisl-Paceis
Boidi.gs sté Csttlo  OeeilitRtsât-t    tP-   éi
Constrotior oR Dipping Tank                     RE.h           9,308           -           -        i         9,500      1        9,500    -             -       -           -       2         19,000       10,830        8,170         43    C.toneti:cto   dipping-taek
C-ntrniane  Ranch  5n8rsRsa  A)ah                            1,0                1       1,0                                                        -               -                 1        12,000         0,210        3,590         28    C      tosstntio  assîo  aSsd. vêt. (A2)
tcsstrotioo   f Oeflsnicr'  Rosa  (0.3>    Rsth       7,300           -            -        1        7,300      t        7,300       R        7,300     --                   3        21,900       15,770         6,130        28    Cons.toottion maison Ces. -it. (A3)
Repaît50 Rersmse'  H..s..                 aE.h             470            S        2,350      5        2,350    --                    ---                    -                10          4,700       3,391           ,1          28    RepsstRon maison dss hovi-ss
ronios  n  Rqoipsst                       Oct              850            1          815_0    -         -         --                   ---                   -                  1           050          150           700        82   1Habilier se êqsipeaet
Sob-Tota1                                                                              19.999                19.150)             16.000               7.300                                    59-5042     312&25.                             T ne1 Partsi1
Rehils  t  Esye,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  éhiecies et Matéeli-
Tesatar oit  Oqolpnet  SI                       Os           16,000             R       16,900      i       16,9000                                -               -                 2         33,800        5,960       27,840         82    Trantsotst smtéciet 5/
panr-Wheel  ti-s Vshiole                        mach         11,000             O       01,8000                                                                                       1        11,803        2,060        9,740         82    Véhic-le tant ts-ie
1Heete,ynla                                     Eath             600            I          600      1           600           -     -        R           600     --                  3          1,800          320         1,480        82     Stayase
Oieyete                             Ree~~~~~~~~~.h   130            3          300      3           300      3          300     -9                                                  1,170          t7i           500        432      eoee
anCi Cqsip.sent 6/                              Set           1,520             I        1,320     -            -       --                  --                   --                  1          1,520          270        1,2501        82    petit ma.icel6
Radio? 7aE-h                                                  3.300             R       3.380    -                                                                                              3.380        _600         2_700         82    Phanis Z'
S.l-Total                                                                               345 590             17 000                  3090                 600                                   51.47Q        z100D       43139                 Total l'setiet
Fasoc  Oprveao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     péveloee,et ès Patotras
Stylaesotheo Ssci.d                            Kg                  5           -           .      100           500   100           300   100            500   100           300  400           2,000        1,330        1,670         83    oSeetes de stylossoises I
Seedîsé Frepseatio~a nd Sanieg                 Hn                  t                               20           160    20           160    20            160    30           160   OU             642        4A30            217        33    Trovas  de ocam
Oob-Ttatl                                                                                                       660                 660         ~        660                   660              2 642        1.760        1.880                Total Partiel
Techejesi A            9iseteS                                                             10,400               10,400              10,400               10,400              10,400               52,007          -          52,000                Assistance~ Tsclhiqns 2/
Parking Capital Reqoiesaceto 19'                                                           37.210               29.058               26,977                  -                   -113,742                      79,610        34,122         30    Fonds de Rontonste 10/
Toilt nvsae1   Casts                                                                      125,380               86,913              65,677               29,320               21,330             328,622      150,200       170,332         52    toGts d' Tnvstissanet
(Osf nhith Poteig  anesgo)                                                             (62,0035            (44,365)             (29,66 4)            (18,220)            (15,280)                                                                  (dont devises
I/  20 an-daye per Inn (cs     lehor).                                                                                    tl  20 1..prIn(sonte)
lFoatrfancing oaly                                                                                                2/tler  peeiphceiqoestent
Il  Nigst-ktssl of eppronimatly 10 ha for h-é af 200 hned.                                                                jI  Roasl de noie dc 10 le nvitot  par t-cp... de 200 tétes
4/  20 ac-deys par hs (testai lhor).                                                                                      4/  20 h.j. par he  jonie)
5/  jn-lodes tesJlses catsry-cdttee té eqo ip.ete for pssett  devslop ..et.                                               5/Y f     Pi Ttorseoets*etootaetooilsss..., et matérttl Foot le dévelcpp-nen   des péenenge..
6/   6qtoo     rserioydscee   cidn    eeorir                                                                                /  t' éqipe~ten   pot  le dasPoonatrey& i              mette. on téttigorteot..
fl  RSh-etstiot Iinked ta ils Projeet'. srdia  corl.7   O.i-i   ennnr  quist   eCa   area  dc radia én projet.
8/  2 kg se.d per ha; 50 ha sano..lly.   -IYt   .ht.   .A..8/  S kg d.e gri..e pet ha; 50 hossenolt                                                                              ...ate   par ene'.
9l  Fert ef eapauicit  rath   9aas'   eey1   tosoél   sd   atl.S   00e partie do asiat-  do dîrtestur du --he recett e   l'étcsngec ocra paée par 1t  --th d-Asé.                                                                                                                            'I
IO/  Warkisg tapotalO 107O of opsestlg anse tarf foret Rac  std 1007 cittcctofptit                                        10/  Potée de r-leoei  epeet         t  100% ès, -tole   d'cnolatdaict dn la  Pceeikrssoeée et 1007, d-s ..ta/sdeiat
cssfor Va-  2 sté 3.                                                                                                   apinearapot  la1             scs  2 et 3.
NCTEO  Thc leva  a  tiret y-e  ene dt  e  eoe               -te  etc prjte   £tIIy ..fd d-  . .tteé..é.rroto 1            N-Ie   O.o cilent Osa  dép-ae  dc 10 petore stad -          sou.  00  te projet est ...apléteast éqeepé et opéeniéto-
dtrisg th. tiret year.  Relaya ...old rado-te  h-eepeedatoe-  Intel,.                                                     poda~te is pran.tèroe            L. La  dol- at-8ltoe   a   e o   dc dépeesen.
J...e 30, 1976                                                                                                            Oc 30 jota 1070






ea-da Oaho    -îba    5M.00  ha                                               ao  dholoa dOsa.da -  .000 ha
109      0 720  3260         283         a,8         6,40        9oaoh1,~
0150000010                                                                                                                                                                            000000010~~~~~~~~~~~~~39l  n,0 16_6  29  50 -ù~ -61~10  7,4  94-0 55    0
hOsara 1-4 y,ara 1'                                  ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~ ~~~11,90  7,50 3201  102.910    132.10     -00,710    29.3010      iot,-2    02,0050           225,400      Aooob0Otoo l1-   ,a1
Ihasos 1-0. pana 3/         -                                     -:1       1   11       Il 00 ,0g40.  4504      6.1          1.8         8770        3400        1760           3394/        hoios0405
îooai Salas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B~                             18.îh       6001        815,0         10060    200750       21,7,0      1710        47  400      74  418        21.l,625        aLoaa
0'aoohsaa  oh 00001er Itaîrs 1/                     ~~~~~~~~~~~10,040 Il ,30  15,101       2,80       1,0         01,920       71100       70,00        7110           500         dooOa1,iaataolde1
0,oohoeafhldt  Toera  0                              19100         ITh        18,40       7,800       19,90       00,070      1491008      140,50      19.91          14910502ohh de  bo9tiilo2            a  sooîtlaa 2
Salaoy ho hopaîaîaha teooto Taosooo 4/ ~12, 20           1,40        0017          10.44      10,0         '6040         -1          -1                                      -           oooîoo  ooohîao,oO74
Iofiaaiera                                 971~~~~~~~~~~~~ff  071       01           975       0,00        1,50          1,0        2,81         261         2,62           2715        -I-oaae
Oaodaeso 6/                             250              050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~94  2,2007  21,100  23,000  24070      0,1009       0,2001      0000        15,419        18,500       -cosîs
Oaosaoai laborata 7/                    290          ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~1,154)  2,100  31.00    1,90       2,020        2,000       01002,         000 3.    13,90         23,70        oooooos.lae
careoaoao,  Ooo,s1590                                                              190         59          0005         590»        000          100         5003        0903           1003     OToooaaO eaa.
Issasta                                 155             ~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~2107  0400  1,00  1,30  1.,445  11,00 ,61  1     ,- 0_705  20,000          1.0705     O7a-Io,
-d -- ~ ~~~~~~~70                                   0          355         3111         070         070          105         211          175         3-              1        saoîs
0,0006050                              Sol              075~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~118  _~01  0.75  2924         8706      3,05           8.7-        07-          075        -  900      T60loo
T-,10 t - 2O"o                                                                        00.
oooo,aaal laits                                        ~~~~      ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~151  3,997  0  1    1  .3      .0             7  38312.                            3 3   4o.o  Osohaa
6,4-Totl                                             7997         09967        .670        70105      20441       24417        19.00       00970       20 28          20,18        OctalOaoo0e
tooaocooks s'd losolos                                ît         0~~ ~ ~~~~              ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~34  0 2 2278  209  770   270         270            279     Oo- -ao
Boloo                                                              7,.845      0,200        1'.51       2.0220     14,01       1,0105       150607        O 15072     3 060 72        .0,072      o.oo.
5,00,7   5,020      ~~~~12,0     10,20       00,000      10,000       00,000      10,000       10,008      10,000         12,Ooofsî             Io'
F,oso-9OooalOoiVa îahic2e             5,426           3,4~~ ~~~~~~20-   2i42   1,440        1,00~       3,2         5,142      01,4120       3~,428       0,0003        3,00       oaosoosotto
Rioooîaaod Osait Opolp,sooso                 373         404         025          505         505         320          120         021          521            525      OlLIoysl-_Ias1îa Ot p32t902  2tO so
h    J-oh:-îtaal                3_/7572 -1.                                    737/        1   î         411        0,5           4  4        0lo         411         2,15           2,4             a-ate
hisailfacs 0                                                      37 011       48122 4.44               4-              7 ,01  450          -.3           _90,02,00                             cos1
hapoaolatot 2/                                                  7,42       12,55       05,220       0,009 -0-70             00,07        2507        15 47           1,07        3502           -0, sr   ooAoo)ao-t
ytssa    !                                                          0,0 17.100                           000        0,6 140,4280             1190         2,0         210             200        5 ot1'ê
tas  0008)5e                                                        010- ..d  -.l11M~.01 01 6120 70 .14  10010        1     fl .,0,             202       12 5-0h272.912             23000         kooo  Oso14    i
idalee     t-1.ooo   h   o        9sIas 1aos   9-th .2oeh                 070         170~eh    .ld            272         275          0)1         TOI900                2  097            100   ksee-g6soOdo,polo,   ooTso5001007
4 oO ha)1-pt..aso,lss  as 20-14ai,aasocO                                                  2            O           8           80          80,    &      o           Ol` ié                     00      Ooa  saoOo         Oeoada2000 s2d   odao
9o6     oaop       oldbb    o   toaaodr0011ioasi                               4          5           10           14-d        54          54           0k           T            .                     Oasogoo              coes   c  Ocst-aoa,                o
sod  os  o  .32/1   kg OOo h...Og t. d1OTT      ..00 I   ....O sX.
o Oldosteoo   stoos  OssI      -2easoacoî;otlado   0   02iTts5ooa-dT2020                                             2        -oooaoka»Oîsua                  d-î0r   2,92  si)aoo2      014  d                     0
5gIlaa lOî
3/  solocose ossoodios tî o10o10 a atlas, ,osoa,                             3,)  Tsosototata,aOoo  le OsoOTe do s Ooaooaoa,ota do 107100.à I-                      9)






ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                    PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L' ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Asada Fattening Ranch - 5,000 Ha                                                     Ranch d'Asada - 5,000 Ha
Source and  implication of Funds                                                      Origine et Emploi des Fonds
(Z)                                                                             (sotres)
---- --- ------ -- ---- ----- --- --- ------ Year/Année ---- ------- -- --------- --- --- -- --------
_        _                                                           1       2          3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10-20                     _    _                       _
Sources of Funds                                                                                                                                                            OriRine des Fonds
Sales                                                         18,960   48,290  115,000   156,860  209,150  277,620  367,140  479,480  549,430 554,430                       Ventes
Development Grant 1/                                          67,710   57,900    38,740   29,360   21,370          -         -         -         -        -                 Don pour le développement 1/
Development Loan 2/                                           710    29,0     26,977           -                                                                              rt 'a long-terme
Total Sources                                                144,380  135,28  180,7_17  186,220  230_520  277,620  367.140  479,480  549,430 554,430                        To     des Fonds DisPoniblts
Use of Funds                                                                                                                                                                 -pLoi _dea Fonds
Fixed lnvestments Costa                                       57,270   47,460   28,300   18,920   10,930           -         -         -         -        -                 Co,its d'investissement es  capital
Capital Replacement Costs                                       -         -          -         -      30,315    7,365         390    1,225   30,315  10,800 4/              Couts de remplaceaent en capital
Operatiug Costa 3/                                            36,830   45,908   49,125   54,031   58,562   54,572    61,518   63,314   63,314  67,314                        Coûts d'epluitation 3/
Perchase of Fattening Steers                                  31,320   51,300   75,060  102,600  133,920  182,790  225,450  225,450  225,450 225,450                        Achat de bétail d'embouche
Loan Installments 4/                                             -         -            -      -         -         -     -   -       29,657   29,657  29.657                Remboursement du prît
Total Uses                                                   125,420  144,668  152_485  1             233,727  244,727  287,358  319.646  348 736 329,221                    Total des Ponds EIsployes
Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                            18_960   (9,420)  28,232         1 0,668 _ 3207      8 7 9     ,7 2   159,834   M_±     225,209          Excédent (un déficit) annruel de Trésorerie
1/  To finance fixed Investment Couts and Teehnical Assistaltce.                                                              1/  Potir f-oancer  Ice  cuits dlnvestitsaeent en capitcc  et l'assistance technique.
2/  Working capital.                                                                                                          2/  Fonds de roulement.                                                                                  > s
3/  Technical Assistance included.                                                                                            3/  Assistapte            enc a-il
4/  Interest at 11.57%  Repayment over 13 years, 7 years grace period for both interest and principal.                        4/  Insurts apre 7   s de dtffheru dnmlrtisu.                                                t
5/  Average teplace-ent costs fer years 10-20                                                                                      pour paiement d'intéret et resboursement do principal.
5/  Moyenre des coûts de remplacement pour les années 10-20.
July 9, 1976                                                                                                                  le 9 juillet 1976



7AIRE
I50U0I10LIVES   REEPNP   5210                                                                      PROJIET DE DEVELOPPBHENT DE LELEVAGE EN 12051i
Rois Ranch - 2.000 ha j                                                                               Ranch de D.l. - 5.000 ha 
aRed ProjectIon                                                                                    Evoltioo du -fruepesu
Sithout Projecti!                 ------------------- YexAé----------------------- -----
Rans Prujt                   3.        2         3         4       2         6         7        8         9        10          11-20
Nr-d Cusapoitios                                                                                                                                                                       Composition du troupeau
Bull.                                        10                       10       10         23       28       2h        2h       2h        oh       2h        oh            oh     Ta,.asx
Breedlsg Cous                               252                     oho       011       066       700      6oo      600       Eo0       600      La0       600           Lac     Vache. sWrpoductrîces
talves Weased                               11S                      15).     157        137       396     h90       420      h20       400      h20       ho            hoo     Veaux sevés
l.ifiter  1-2 3mars                         176                       56       73         76       67      192       238      2oo      2oo       2oo      2oo            ooh     Génisses 1-2 esn
Neifers 0-3 7-ar                              3                     hi7       304         70       74       65       186      231       198      198       198           1983    Génisses 2-3 ana
liie.3-h Yare                            29                        3      400        292       68       72        63      iSo       224      192       190           190     Génisses 3-h4 aise
St..rs 1-2 years                             74                      s6        72         75       66      190      238       004       204      004       204           204     Bouvillousi 1-2 ses
Steers 0-3 rare                              49                      70        îh         69       73       6h       1li6     031       198      198       198           198       uv.îOs-   a
Steers 3-4 Y.-                               25                       h?       67         20       67       71       La       IBO       224      192       192           192      B-uillous, 3-4se
Steer  4-5 yens                              69                      oh       hs         Eh        50      62        69        La      175       017      186           186      Bouvillons 4-5 ses
iteever 5y.-.s                           12                      66        -          -        -        -        -         -         -        -         -             -        u.fdpssas_
tee,PurchassdA/                           O                     285       00        855    1,      - l14R5    1.6-  5              9-    i 9-       1go            1,90        ovlln,aheé
Tote.1 ALil.                               817                   1.427    1      ~ 02279    0.28 729      26     3.701    4,234    4.371    4 349       431           4.316     Tut.i Anisas
Total A.U. j                                  91.276    1 806                           .142    L~   27270    3.081.   3814    2A961             I929    389           3.898     o.a.B. £
mortantle
Buis.                                                                  1        0          O        1        1         1        i                                                  a~
cous asd Beplaceacote                                                 14       îî         oh        26      23        20       20        25        25       oh            oh      Vaches et génisses pleines
Heifers1-2 yesrs                                                       3        3          3        2        6         7        6         6        E         6             6     oénîseel -oans
Heiters 2-3 Yesrs                                                      9        O          3        O        2         6        7         6        6         6             6     Gésisseo2-3scs
Hei1ors3-4hy-a                                -                                17         12        o        2         o        6         7         6        6             6      GésGee3-an
Rteersî-oyears              -                       ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                  ~ ~~3  3  3  2  6  7  6  6         6        6             E      .Bu-lllossi-2suss
BSz-s2-3 yeas                                -                         h        o          3        2        O         6        7         6        6         6             6     Bouvillons2-3eaes
Btee-e3-h yeas                               -2                                 3          O        2        2         2        6         7         6        6             6      Bouellloas-4.ans
Rtsersh4-Sysess                               -                                 O          3         2       2         2        O         R        7         6             6      B-uilles 4-5Ssss
Oteer  ove  S yesr                                                     4        h          2        2        2         2        O         O        S         7             E      Bcefs1deplus dessssn
Rteers, Persihasé 4/                         -15                               30         45       La       75        85      10        100      100       100           100     Bovlla *ahetés 4/
Total Mortality                                                       56       76        100       103     12        140      163       169      17h       174           173      To.tal  bisaraiRt
Purchases                                                                                                                                                                              Achats
Bulle                                                                  3        2         15         8       O         3        3         3         3        3             3      Taurea
H.Ieiter2-3 Y-ar                                                     2  50    250          0         O       O         i         O        O         O        O             O      Génise...O-3anl
iteest  3 Yens A/                                                    30       600        90     1.200   1 200    1 700    L2          0.000 O  2.002    2,000          2,000      Bouvillons 3 ses 4/
Total Perhaess-                                                      553      822        21      1.208   1.500    1.7(1   03          2   00       CD    2.003         2.003      Total  Achats
Bales                                                                                                                                                                                  Vestes
Cufled Coma                                   24                      OR       24         21        57      70        48        42       6e        6e       La            6e      Vaches ta réAssu
Retates 3-h Ye"ar                              O                       O        O          O        75      75         4         1       97       137      iRA           108      Génisses 3-h ans
Streer  oves S ymar                                                   il       86         43        6o      48        63       67        56       170      010           îso      Boeufsedm Vinss éS   a
mnlIet BWalle                                  2                       2        2          2         2       3         O         2        2         O        2             2      Taureau  réto-e
Bters   5ecéSA                                                             8          70      REs   1,140    1 425      i 1615    i j,-    1_2       1~9           190        Bulno*ahts
Total Bales .1                                                        38                 636    1.051   1,336    î.sh2    1 7_07    2Llç1   .2.269   2_80              02520      Ventes totales
Techaical Cosficoente                                                                                                                                                                 Cootticiests teohalo..o
Weani9g0Bate                                 -                        6e       Es         65        70      70        70        70       70        70       70            T0      T-zdesevvageo%
Ad.ltldrtality Retse%5/                      -                                   4         4         3       3         3         3        3         3        3              3     T.uxdeortalité deseadultes%51    -
blortality - Steer  Purchaeed  (i                                                2         R         O       R         I         S        t         R                       5     Mritielité - Boscîlloa  t tssitss,ahetés 4
Coa, CuIilg Bats %                          -10                                10        10        10       10        8         7       10        le       10             10     Tan de yackes. del ées
BulleculligBPâte%                            -                        1        15         12        10      10        10        10       10        10       10            10      Teuxdsta-reaux  denréfese
Stoking Baie - hf.                                                   3.9     2oS         0.3       2.1     î.8       1.5       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3          1.3      Taux dc charge - ha/tl.G.B.
~L   Incudes  elii scotor (1,o00ha)5 Mcako seotor (1,300 ha), Tindh  -etor (1.200 hs) ano                                      tep.sped les estnede Dale (1 200 ha)5 de Mekebe (RO30 ha), de Tidah <iO2E hs) et de Sccgrio (1300 Ie)
S ODgolo soct-r (1,300 ha).
i/Total asisi   Îinu  calves nesi.                                                                                      j     otreitas dentax noise les.eu   ers
AéBiSnî hoiters Porchaed 1ooailY (approoistely 20%) a-d ioported ftro  Konye (spprooictely 20%).                     jl Géni.s.. sn6dntisahetées1.. iceieet (evro   0%) et isaprtésa d. Kenysevio  50%).
j porokased et 185 kg LW for 9-12  -cths fettssisg.                                                                    jA.hsté. a uS5 kg de poids vif pou  Stre sogeaiséde pesdaet 9-12 coeis
J Iscudo 2%7lusses.                                                                                                    j            % d  vio
JuRy 8, 1976                                                                                                             le S Juillet 5976



0900030D400000    0000                                                                                      030    E00E.O0000D -05,0    0000 0-04ooo
"'I.      41~~~~~4,0E0oo9
DEO, DODES - O 00Db,!!                               000Db Oo 0,9, - 5.00Db, Dl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
D,,0,,s,   0.ED~                                                                      OODE  ~Eo,90,.E,,o
4                    ~~         ~~~40                                                                                          000
_____________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DtE oo, M oo D oo.   O oo00o O,~~~~~.  I  ~  12  4 5   4 '
osofi.,  31                      DDOD                    40,000                       -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,4         4007                   -            ---                                                                                           DO,OD                              0,2D                 0044                                   oo
OOooSss,E,,o,0EooDD,              Os                          ID                      S            90~~~~~~~~~~~~-4  t           90O                             9              5               EO                                                                                                I.0 545  4DOOE0 -EDE DD
o;  Do  500    0,000               DO        0.000               10          0,040             0E           0,500              40        5,000               50               0E,DDO                            00,13D               00,000               DO               OD0DODDE-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'é    l~
00000-DOOEO.00  0,Eb     DDO                      O           000                O          000                 O           DOO              O             000               -        -                    O                2.700                               07D               1,700                90               DoosO,  dEDooDE fi~~~~~~~~~~~21
DMEOEDDE0-                                S,                         000~~~~~~~~~~~~IU        O            0                            00-Il                                                                                                          5OOOO0Db
DODO  47,000   ,450                          7 500                        0004                                 40 o00                            '.000                00.040                                 oDol 70>0  .
00E ,-,DO,DOO, p,oDODoOo,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OboD,,oooo  o  00,7. D,700oo oooo DOoo,0~~~~I.,14lIl,f4
z'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~I
0o,,oooooo,EOOpooo.oDoooO                       0500                       -         -O                           0,500                 0         D*,o0              -           -                   -                              O               OE,70                            oo,oo                 5,000                  E-D0D.DDDDo10,00DM,0'E...,o.'o,7
4,D1-                                                                                                                                                                                                             --                           -O0OO00'00033DDOO0    s000                                                                                                                                       E0'05
E0E0000000000  ,OE4    0,100                      O    4,040                                                    -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ej
TZ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ]               ,o                         ,00O                                                              000O                            04                               00-                        -                                      4o4',0                                                ,5                   0E0E0090dEDO00OD,,
E,,Oo,ooo  D  ,O00000EEED000400  ,oD              0003.                                 -                            7,00.                 O         7,  o                          0,00                -        .                     O00,04                                           0,570D.DD                                 20Eo,0oo40,s 0, ,OOD 0-o..
E,0Eo,Mo  O   .oos,o   bos,  0,'  000,4,0>                                           0400                   O        3.00                  O        00400               O         OO0>S                                              27000000                                           0,00                0000                  200,oosooDoo                        000,00o    ',  04,00
.000  ,4,Oo,o,0 40,0   oobDb                                                           ,00                 O        2,00                            -                                                  -        -                   O                 00000,0E                                                030                d                DoooOoo do  o,,o. 00   ODOUI
00/  5,00                 0.00                       -         .                    I        0,000              -~~~~~~~~~.M.                  -                                                                                .500000OSE00Do,,jo                                                                                                       D






t:m ~ ~~~~~k- ~~~~~11-`Ill li, l ~           ~           ~           47149799.-
------------                  ---------------    -------                    -9994 1 ---     -- -- - -- -- - -- -
949 0999909                                      99 40il99 Il9o91
749994                                449079997197,,   9 9 9 9 4 4 9 7,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI 'l
4014!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1
7477  0,0999.0201,99999,97249,229                        ~~~~1709      9.97       9.9         959         7,9
040997-9799999                                      -                  -           -           -90.99940,90019099021,99079.09990,700~~~~in  2-1
92,200                    19,91070,~~~~              ~~1402  Il  14,120I 14,9474                                            -l            .                        99l~
099y       9999                                                                                                                                                                                                       In .00 079,7191 0 00 2 0 0 , 0 4 9 0 70  1994999,9997
9994999990994'  905                            9791.7591,9007,9290,9990.979                                           1,1009.9910.9077909                                         17,999999499'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  ........
29,99                                                      04                                     10          19           19          29          909       1,01        1.10         ,10.1..9..70 7.99...79






ZAIRE
ITRI LIVESTOCR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                PROJET DE DEVELOOPPEMENT DE L' ELEVAGE EN ITIURI
Dele Ranch - 5,000 ha.                                                 Ranch de Dele - 5.000 Ha
Source snd Applicat on of Funds                                         Origine et Emplois des Fonds
(Z)                                                                h(aire)
B.f.r.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Befoare
Development/         ----- - -- ------ -------- --------------Year/Annéè -----------------------------------
Avant              1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10-20
rDevelo.ement
Sources of Funds                                                                                                                                                          Origine des Fonds
Sales                                         8,354            9,490   96,780  143,350  233,720  296,740  350,680  396,670  484,420  537,520  551,900                     Ventes
Development Grant 1/                                         108,270  164,650   76,525   61,000   41,480           -         -          -         -         -             Don pour le développeeent 1/
Development Loan 22                                          61,981   44,694   36,324          -         -                              -         -         -             pr;ct   long-terme 2/
Total Sources                                 8,354          179,741  306_124  256,199  294,720  338,220  350_680  396,670  484,420  537,520  551,900                     Total des Fonds Disponibles
Uses-of Funds                                                                                                                                                             Enploi des Fonds
Fixed Investeent Costs                                        60,830  117,710   59,460   47,060   31,040           -         -          -         -         -             Coûts d'investissement en capital
Purchase of Breeding Cattle                                   37,000   36,500    6,625        3,500      -         -         -          -         -         -             Achat de bétail pour élevage
Capital Replacement Costs                                       -          -         -         -       30,185    9,110      5,470      5,730   34,483   13,839 51         Coûts de remplacementen capital
Operating Costs 3/                                            42,481   57,175   63,529   66,903   72,412   67,392   70,938   71,851   71,648   71,502                     Coûts d'exploitation
Purchase of Feeder Steers                                     29,940   59,940   89,910  119,880  149,850  169,830  199,800  199,800  199,800  199,800                     Achat de bétail d'embouche
Loan Installments 41                                            -          -         -         -         -         -          -       36,676    36,676   36,676           Remboursement du prêt 41
Total Uses                                      9,050        170,251  271,325  219_524  237_343  283,487  246,332  276_208  314,057  342_604  321,817                     Total des Fonds Employés
Annual  Cash Surplus (Deficit)                         (696)         9,490   34,799   36,675   57,377    54,733  104,348  120,462  170,363  194,916  230,083   Excédent (ou deficit) annuel de Trésorerie
1/  Including fined Investment Costs, purchase of breeding  stock  and Technical Assistance.                          1/  Ytecopris coÙts d'investissementen capital, achat de bétail d'levage et assistancez
2/  Working casital                                                                                                   2/  Fonds de roulement.                                                                                        -
3/  Technical Assistance included                                                                                    if  Assistance téchnique inclure                                                                                t
4 I Interest at 11.51. Repayment over 13 years, 7 years grace period for both interest and principal.   4/  Inthlt à 11.57, par an, amorti en 13 ans après 7 ans différé d'amortissement
51  Average replacement costs for years 10-20                                                                             pour paiement d'intéret et remboursement du principal,
5/  Moyenne des coflts de remplacement pour les annees 10-20.                                                  am
July 9  1976                                                                                                          le 9 juillet 1976



ANNEX 6
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Abattoirs
A. Background
1.        The main towns of Bunia and Kisangani possess well-built and modern
abattoirs. Originally well-equipped, both plants have fallen into disrepair
through absence of maintenance and much of the machinery and equipment are
now beyond repair. The management is inexperienced and workers generally
untrained and as a result the slaughter operations are inefficient and un-
hygienic, particularly for pigs where the work takes place on the ground
outside the abattoirs. Both abattoirs run at a loss. The Bunia abattoir is
run by ONDE and its revenue is obtained from slaughter fees for slaughtering
stock for local butchers; it is to increase its revenue from its own trading
operations involving the purchase of cattle and sale of carcasses to Societe
General d'Alimentation (SGA) in Kinshasa. Kisangani is run by the Veterinary
Department and its income derives from slaughter fees.  The accounting systens
of both enterprises are very rudimentary.
Bunia Abattoir
2.        The Bunia abattoir is controlled and operated by ONDE.  It is
located 7 km from the center of town on a well chosen site. The buildings
(1,212 m ) are enclosed by a security fence surrounding a 2 ha section of
the 137 ha site. Constructed between 1956 and 1958, the abattoir began
working in January 1959. The plant was designed for an annual throughput
of 20,000-25,000 cattle, but only minor provision was made for processing
pigs. No information is available regarding early operations. Slaughter
figures for 1974 give the number of cattle as 3,074 head, pigs 2,303, sheep
and goats 108. The throughput for 1975 continues at a slightly higher rate.
It is estimated that in 1975 400 cattle and 200 pig carcasses will be ex-
ported to Kinshasa (53 and 10 tons of meat respectively).
3.        The main building contains a large slaughter and dr ssing hall, two
chill rooms, a freezing room and a sub-zero cold store (363 m capacity) which
are joined by a large ante-chamber leading to a loading bay. In addition to
the meat section, there are small cold rooms for storing fish, vegetables and
butter. Under the same roof is an offal cleaning room, by-products processing
department, detention bay, administrative and veterinary offices and toilets
as well as a large compressor room serving the cold stores. Attached to the
building is a small laundry and a covered area for the boiler. Other build-
ings include a large store with loading bays on two sides, a small power house
and pig pens.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The structure of all the buildings are in good sound condition.
Walls of the processing areas are white tiled to a height of about 2 m, and
except for a few small patches, the tilework is good. Floors and drains
are in reasonably sound condition and require little attention, some windows
need new grazing and the screening of upper openings calls for renewal.
Elsewhere, minor repairs and renovations are required and all buildings need
repainting.
5.        The bleeding, dressing and detention areas, as well as chill
and freezing rooms, ante-chamber and the loading bay are equipped with an
overhead round bar runway. A motorized ritual slaughter pen is installed and
the bed system is used for flaying and dressing. There are four dressing
bays each of which is provided with an electric hoist, dressing trolleys are
used and not fixed beds. Originally each bay was equipped with an electric
flaying machine but only one remains and that is not in use. Paunches are
dropped on the floor, plucks and heads are hung on improvised hooks for
examination, although eight standard type offal and head inspection trucks
remain unused in the store. Carcasses are split on the rail by cleavers and
the sides move on to an overhead track scale then to the chill rooms or
dispatch area. Another overhead track scale is situated at the loading bay.
The only equipment available for processing pigs is a stunning box, unused;
pigs are killed, scalded and scraped by hand on a small patch of concrete
some distance from the abattoir.
6.        The offal cleaning section contains washing tanks with benches,
a mechanical tripe washer is at present dismantled and unusable. The by-
products department contains a melter-dryer, centrifuge, disintegrator 1/
and tallow rendering tanks. The boiler is a vertical type, fired by fuel
oil and originally fitted with automatic control; the laundry is adequately
equipped with a washing machine and spin dryer. The large, well constructed
engine room contains five compressors; the plant is adequate for the full
capacity of the chill and freeze rooms; the refrigerant is ammonia. A small
power house contains one 60 KVA diesel generator unit. Water is supplied
by the local water authority, pressure is low and unfortunately, the abattoir
is not provided with a head tank. The effluent passes through a water trap
before running through a channel to a small stream some 200 meters from the
abattoir. There is no maintenance workshops, very few tools were visible and
the spare parts in stock negligible. The administration offices are poorly
furnished and the veterinary office contains only a small table and stool.
7.        Throughout the abattoir, only the compressors, hoists and carcass
scale appear to be working. The liveweight scale is unusable and all yields
shown in the abattoir reports are estimates, mostly inexperienced guesses.
The ritual stunning pen, a costly piece of equipment, is not working. It is
claimed that the motor is not capable of turning the pen, but the apparent
1/   It should not be used for grinding manioc as it has been in the past.
The motor has been rewound.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
reason is that the chassis and driving wheels are clogged with dirt and hard
grease; as a result the method now employed for slaughtering cattle is crude
and slow. The frames and wheels of the dressing trolleys are broken, and
the one remaining flaying machine is unusable. Unskilled workers, using
unsuitable knives, are employed for flaying. Consequently the hides produced
at Bunia yield barely half the price per kilo for thos produced in Kivu.
8.        There are no paunch tables and no paunch trucks, paunches are
dropped on the floor and dragged across the floor to the offal cleaning room;
tripes and all intestines are sold and edible products but scant attention
is given to hygiene. The well equipped by-products processing department is
no longer used; and therefore no by-products produced. This is mainly due to
electrical trouble. The disintegrator has been used for grinding manioc, and
it would seem that the fine powder has penetrated the uncovered motor, the
motor attached to the centrifuge has also burned out. Motors can only be re-
wound in Kinshasa (the cost of rewinding together with air freight is almost
that of a new motor). The hoist which was used for lifting inedible material
to the gentry for loading the melter is missing. A cursory examination
through the discharge door revealed that the beater shaft, arms and paddles
of the costly melter appear to be in good and sound condition.
9.        It was understood that the refrigeration plant is in running order
although a few leaks of ammonia were obvious; these appear due to faulty
valves and packing. A general check and overhaul where necessary of the
entire system is called for. The insulation of the chambers seemed sound but
one door of the ante-chamber is in bad shape; however, the stock holds a
stock of cork insulation and a carpenter is available locally to carry out
the necessary repairs; all the refrigeration door furniture is in good
condition. The supply of ammonia presents a problem: the refrigerant is
imported from Europe and a charge of Z 45 is made on each cylinder which
contains 60 kg. Due to the problems of transport it is not possible to meet
the time limit for the return of the cylinders and the deposit is lost. Some
50 empty cylinders, on which a charge of Z 2,250 has been levied, remain in
the stores at Bunia.
10.       Originally two diesel engined generator units were installed to
provide a stand-by plant in the event of a power failure of the municipal
supply. One of the units has been removed to provide (it is said) light and
power to a village or collectivity, the second unit has been canibalized but
could possibly be rebuilt. The boiler has not been used for some considerable
time although it is learned that the pump motor is tested occasionally; the
control panel calls for attention and new parts needed. The boiler would
need to be opened up for examination by a competent person to check if the
tubes and boiler plates have suffered through corrosion. The steam pipework
throughout the plant appears to be in good condition; however, lagging is
needed in some areas. The laundry equipment is not used - here again,
electrical faults are blamed.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Kisangani Abattoir
11.       The Kisangani abattoir, build around the same time as the Bunia
plan, is situated also on a well chosen 10 ha site, located about 6 km from
the center of town. The buildings are well constructed and laid-out within
an enclosed area of about 2 ha. A 200 m long access road with laterite
surface links the abattoir to a tarmac road to town. With renovations and
new equipment, the plant could cope readily with an annual slaughter of
18,000 head of cattle and 36,000 pigs. The throughput for 1974 amounted
to no more than 2,536 head of cattle, 2,748 pigs and 694 sheep and goats.
Kisangani abattoir is under the control of the Veterinary Department.
12.       The main building contains slaughter and dressing floors for both
cattle and pigs, a large hanging hall, two offal cleaning rooms, three chill
rooms connected by a large ante-chamber and engine room. There is also a
cellar beneath the pig section which is equipped for a hot water system. The
walls of the building are white tiled to a height of 2 m, a small area needs
retiling; floors and drains are in good condition and the roof is sound. A
number of windows need reglazing and fly-screening renewed. The building
has a ceiling of hardboard, not justified for an abattoir and now broken in
parts, the remainder of the ceiling should be removed.
13.       The administrative offices are in a separate building.  This is
also well constructed and there is ample accommodation for all needs.
Another block of buildings contains cattle pens, a room equipped with a wood
fired boiler and adjacent to this is a small concrete apron on which pigs
are now being slaughtered and dressed under deplorable sanitary conditions
even worse than those at Bunia. Water is obtained from the municipal supply
but without a head tank, there is no water pressure in the plant. Effluent,
after screening through a waste trap, is disposed of in the river nearby.
14.       The cattle race is equipped with a liveweight scale, now corroded
and broken beyond repair; a cattle stunning pen is almost in the same condi-
tion but might be repairable. The pig section is raised to allow for a hot
water system to be installed in the cellar below, there is a pig stunning
pen, scalding tank, scraping and gambrelling table - none of which are used;
and the area is currently being used as a clockroom. Both slaughter and
dressing floors, the hanging hall, ante-chamber and chill rooms are equipped
with an excellent overhead twin bar runaway system.
15.       The cold room doors have disintegrated or disappeared and so have
the door frames together with the surrounding insulation. The refrigeration
plant is no longer operating, due it is said to lack of ammonia; a test was
carried out a year ago when a cylinder of ammonia was made available and the
compressors were found to be functioning satisfactorily. There are two
compresssors powered by 26 hp motors and one by a 60 hp motor; the latter has
been opened up and the wiring exposed. A diesel fuel fired water heating
unit has broken down and hot water is no longer available.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
16.       In addition to the under-utilized Kisangani abattoir, 4 slaughter
slabs operate close to the town, one for the occasional Muslim slaughter, two
for small stock and another for pigs. The latter, l'Abattoir des Mamans,
which is owned and operated by five local women, is located about 3 km from
the center of town and comprises a couple of small wooden shacks and a broken
concrete slab which juts onto the river for the ready disposal of stomach
contents and effluent. Current slaughter is some 40 pigs daily and the num-
bers are increasing. It is difficult to imagine a more unhygienic operation.
Hides
17.       A feature of both abattoirs is the poor flaying and treatment of
hides, particularly at Kisangani where the hides are hacked off the animal in
a haphazard, irregular manner and regarded by the butchers as of little or no
value.
18.       The chief buyer of Bata in Kinshasa confirmed the low grade of
Bunia and Kisangani hides. He mentioned that hides produced at Goma, Bukavu
and Beni obtained a standard price of Z .34 a kg dried weight. While hides
at Bunia only obtain Z .18 a kg dried weight. It was stated that the company
is prepared to pay Z .36 a kg for first quality hides; prices quoted are at
the point of production.
B. Investments
Bunia Abattoir: Investment
19.       The Bunia abattoir buildings would be renovated throughout and
repairs carried out where necessary. All existing plant which might be put
into use again would be thoroughly overhauled, electric motors and switch-
gear would be stripped down for repairs and brought back into service. The
refrigeration plant would be overhauled and checked by a Zairian refrigera-
tion expert from Kinshasa.
20.       New building structures include an extension to the main building
for the slaughter and dressing of pigs (see sketch plan No. 1), hide drying
and storage shed, a staff amenities block covering change rooms, showers and
toilets; a covered slab equipped for Muslim slaughter and also a covered
slaughter pen for cattle. The existing toilets which lead directly to the
slaughter floor together with the wash hand fountain in the main building
would be removed and the area used for hide fleshing and washing (see sketch
plan No. 2).
21.       Utility storage services will be improved by the addition of a head
tank for water storage and to provide a good pressure throughout the plant.
The boiler will be completely overhauled and brought in use to provide hot
water throughout the plant. A catch basin and filter beds would be con-
structed to overcome the problem of pollution arising from the disposal of
effluent. The existing stand-by unit will be brought back into service, and



ANNEX 6
Page 6
an additional unit installed. The stand-by plant is essential to safeguard
the existing stock in the event of an outside power failure. Both the
security and the perimeter fencing would be renewed.
22.       Many items of new plant and equipment would be introduced, the main
items include a pig scalding tank, together with dehairing and gambrelling
tables. A stainless steel paunching table extending into the offal cleaning
room will overcome paunches being dropped on the floor and also aid the meat
inspectors in their work. The abattoir would be fully equipped with plant,
tools and utensils and with an improved layout to permit the efficient
slaughter of cattle, pigs and small stock. Provision has been made for the
establishment of a maintenance workshop in the store building where there is
ample space available. Equipment and tools will be provided to carry out
general maintenance work and day to day repairs.
23.       The Project would finance the purchase of insulated vehicles for
the meat delivery service that would be established (see para 51 below).
Kisangani Abattoir:  Investment
24.       Investment in Kisangani would mainly consist of renovating the
buildings and re-equipping the abattoir. All the plant and machinery would
be overhauled and repaired. The refrigeration plant would be checked by the
same Zairian refrigeration expert from Kinshasa who would do the work at
Bunia (see para 19 above).
25.       New buildings would include the construction of a hide drying shed,
and a general store and maintenance workshop.
26.       Utility services would be improved with the addition of a head tank
for water storage and to provide good pressure throughout the plant. The
diesel fuel fired water heating unit would be repaired to provide hot water
throughout the plant. An excellent effluent disposal system consisting of a
catch basin, filter beds and a channel to irrigated land would be constructed.
27.       All equipment in the pig section would be repaired or replaced
where necessary to permit the use of the facilities. The abattoir would be
equipped with necessary tools and utensils for the efficient slaughtering
and processing of animals. The Project would also finance the acquisition
of vehicles to establish a meat delivery service.
Cost Estimates
28.       Investment cost estimates were prepared after discussions with
leading suppliers in Kinshasa and abattoir engineering firms in London as well
as recent quotations for similar projects, the estimates are based on prices
prevailing at the time of project preparation with allowance for inflation to
January 1977. Details are set out in tables 1 and 8 and summarized as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 7
---------Z '000------   ----------US$000-- ---
Item               Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   FE %
Bunia abattoir          126      194     320      145     223      368     61
Kisangani abattoir       62       72     134       71      83      154     53
Technical services        -      122     122        -     140      140    100
188     388     576      216      446     662      67
Operational Procedures
29.       After discussion and general agreement with the responsible author-
ities, ONDE would take over from the Veterinary Department the control and
management of the Kisangani abattoir; ONDE would operate the latter as a
joint venture with the Bunia abattoir for the supplies of livestock and the
disposal of meat and by-products. An effective and acceptable form of ac-
counting and documentation covering livestock purchases, operation of abattoirs
and the meat delivery service would be drawn up by the Financial Controller
of ONDE. Tender documents and expenditure budgets for the renovation, plant
overhaul and new equipment for both the Bunia and Kisangani abattoir would be
prepared by the managerial and technical advisor in conjunction with the
Project director and the general manager of ONDE; disbursements of Project
funds would be channelled through ONDE.
30.       Both abattoirs run at a loss because of poor management and inade-
quate fees. In order to cover costs and obtain an acceptable financial rate
of return on investments it will be necessary to:
(a) Raise slaughter fees to butchers from Z 1 per head for
cattle and Z 0.75 for pigs to Z 4.00 and Z 2.50 respec-
tively at Bunia and at Kisangani to Z 4.80 for cattle
and Z 3.00 for pigs and Z 1.00 for sheep and goats.
Part of the fees would go into a compensation fund to
protect butchers against financial losses due to carcass
condemnation (para 46) 1/. The fees would also cover the
work currently done by butchers on both abattoirs who
help with the slaughtering of animals.
(b) Raise holding ground fees.
(c) Make a major effort to purchase hides and skins and pro-
cess them in the proper manner.
1/   Compensation of cattle:  75% of liveweight price net of transport
costs.
Compensation of pigs:   100% of liveweight price net of transport
costs.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
(d) Use existing machinery to produce by products at Bunia,
such as Meat Meal, Blood Meal, Hoof and Horn Meal and
Tallow.
(e) Run the abattoirs in the most efficient manner possible.
(f) Stop all slaughtering outside the main abattoirs includ-
ing that at the Abattoir des Mamans (but excepting Mus-
lim slaughter in Kisangani); it is believed that the
veterinary authorities have the necessary powers to
enforce the closure.
31.       Operating costs for the Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs are given
in Tables 2 and 9; projections of revenues (Tables 4 and 10) are based on
estimated livestock production and the proportion that should be processed
given active management, local demand and support from producers, butchers,
and Government staff in the region. The interrelationship with the production
aspects of the project, the attitude of butchers, traders and producers and
the perennial national problems of transport and supply of inputs provide a
number of uncertainties, especially in the early years as experience is
gained.
32.       At Bunia, if the throughput (Table 5) and output are achieved with
estimated costs, it would be possible to cover the costs of running the
abattoirs on income from fees, by-products and hides by the second year of the
Project. Meat purchased by ONDE would be sold to S.G.A. at an average price
of Z 1.45 per kg carcass weight. The financial rate of return for the Bunia
abattoir was estimated at 22% (Annex 13). The price of beef used in the
calculation of the financial rate of return was Z 1.45/kg carcass, which is an
average price for the carcasses which would be sold to S.G.A., ranging from
Z 1.15 to Z 1.75. This price of Z 1.45/kg carcass, therefore, reflects both
the producer price increase recommended by the mission for the better quality
animals and the price differentiation between the three grades of cattle
purchased from Z .91 for the first grace, to Z .80 and Z. 54 for the second
and third grades respectively. If estimated capital costs were to increase by
10%, the financial rate of return would be lower by one percentage point
reducing it to 21%. If estimated capital costs and operating costs, excluding
purchases of cattle and hides, were to increase by 10%, the financial rate of
return would be lower by 3 percentage points reducing it to 19%. However,
if all estimated costs, including purchases of cattle andhides, were to
increase by 10%, the financial rate of return would be negative. Alternative-
ly, if during the first three years of the Project, abattoir fees and the sale
price of meat, offals, by-products and hides were half the amounts estimated
by the mission, which would mean a reduction of 50% in abattoir revenues, the
financial rate of return would be lower by 14 percentage points reducing it to
8%.  As apparent from the above results of the financial analysis, the most
risky variables in the financial performance of the abattoir are the purchase
price of cattle and the sale price of beef. (Revenues from sales of beef



ANNEX 6
Page 9
carcasses account for more than 80% of estimated revenues at full development
by Year 10 in the mission's financial projections for the abattoir). It will
be, therefore, essential for the abattoir management to closely monitor its
pricing policy for its various sources of revenues.
33.       At Kisangani, the main source of income for the abattoir vill be
the slaughtering fees which at full development by Year 10 will account for
about 65% of the abattoir revenues; revenues from the sales of hides and skins
would amount to more than 20% of total revenues by Year 10. The financial
rate of return was estimated at 12%. The cost of technical assistance has
been included in the investment costs. If the estimated capital and operating
costs were to be higher by 10%, the financial rate of return would be lover by
7 percentage points, reducing it to 5%. If the throughput of the abattoir
were 50% below the throughput projected by the mission in the first three
years of the project, the financial rate of return would be lower by 7
percentage points, reducing it to 5%. If the estimated abattoir fees were
reduced by 20% to Z 3.85 for cattle, Z 2.40 for pigs and Z .80 for sheep and
goats, the financial rate of return would be negative. The level of throughput
of the abattoir and the level of abattoir fees are, therefore, the most risky
variables for the abattoir to operate profitably. Therefore, it will be
essential for the Veterinary Department to enforce the regulation that all
animals, except for muslim slaughtering, be slaughtered at the abattoir.
Also, it will be essential for the abattoir management to carefully monitor
the level of the fees.
34.       The estimated cash flows (Table 12) show a small operating deficit
in the Bunia abattoir in the first three years of the project (totalling
Z 105,000) and a surplus of Z 70,000 in the same period at Kisangani. A small
adjustment in the sale price of meat in the first two years could eliminate
this deficit. However, it is possible that the Bunia abattoir deficit be
greater and that a deficit occur at the Kisangani abattoir in the first three
years of the Project if the throughput of the abattoirs proves to be lower
than was estimated by the mission or if fees and sale prices are set at
inadequate levels. In normal circumstances these deficits as well as the
working capital requirements of the Bunia abattoir for the purchase of cattle
and hides would be financed by ONDE borrowing either from Government or from
local banks.
35.       The Bunia abattoir was passed to ONDE in a loss making condition and
ONDE has had to support it out of revenues from its newly obtained ranching
enterprises. This is unsatisfactory. Under the First Livestock Project
it was intended that ONDE should operate strictly on a commercial basis and
that it would not be given loss making enterprises unless adequate subventions
were made to keep them in operation. If adequate financial and operational
management changes are made and all animals being slaughtered in Bunia and
Kisangani are slaughtered in the abattoirs, it should be possible to eliminate
losses, but this will require direct Government backing in ensuring that
butcher follow slaughtering regulations. It is, therefore, in ONDE's interest
that separate accounts be maintained for these abattoirs and that the Govern-
ment be prepared to lend to ONDE to meet any deficits in its abattoir



ANNEX 6
Page 10
operations and for working capital requirements if credit facilities are not
available from local banks. Fees would be reviewed by Government and ONDE.
However, if for some reason ONDE is not permitted to set fees or prices
at levels sufficient to operate the abattoirs profitably than Government would
provide a subsidy. Assurances are needed on these points. Consideration
should be given to require from S.G.A. that it pay on order part of the
amounts due for purchased meat, which would allow ONDE to meet some of its
working capital requirements.
Implementation Procedures
36.       During Project year 1, the two expatriate experts would be re-
cruited. 1/ Tenders would be prepared according to the requirements set out
in the investment cost estimates. Renovation of the buildings, renewal of
fencing and overhaul of the plant and machinery would commence at both
abattoirs. New accounting procedures would be introduced and cattle buying
would be organized. Also in year 1 orders would be placed for the new plant
and equipment listed in the cost estimates. It is anticipated that for many
items, shipment would not be affected until up to 22 weeks from the confirma-
tion of orders and a further 8 weeks will elapse before delivery at the
abattoirs, installation of new plant will therefore take place in year 2 when
all capital expenditure would be completed. The phasing of invesment costs
would be as follows: 2/
Investment Items                      Year 1       Year 2        Total
Bunia abattoir-capital investments            188          132          320
Kisangani abattoir-capital investments         91           43          134
Technical assistance                           61           61         122
Total                              340          236          576
Plant and Equipment
37.       Details of the plant, machinery and equipment requirements covering
the cattle and pig sections for both Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs are set
out in the investment cost tables 1 and 8. The information might be used as
a guide when calling for estimates or tenders, it is likely that individual
firms may wish to add to the list or suggest alternatives in accordance with
their own particular manufacturing program.
38.       It is desirable, as far as possible, that all equipment that would
come into contact with edible products should be constructed of stainless
steel.  Working platforms and other heavy equipment should be well galvanized,
tubular legs should be standard on all platforms, tables, tanks and so forth,
angle iron which collects dirt in the corners should be avoided.
1/   See paras 61-69.
2/   Source:  Tables 1 and 8.  Includes technical services.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
39.       A strict routine of preventive maintenance must be introduced and
rigidly adhered to. Manufacturers of plant and equipment will give details
of the routine maintenance required for each item they supply, they will also
furnish a list of recommended spares which should be acquired with the plant.
There appears to be a complete absence of spares for the existing plants at
the Bunia and Kisangani, this shortcoming would require the early attention
of the expatriate engineer to be recruited under the sub-project.
Disposal of Effluent
40.       An efficient and sophisticated sewage treatment plant, usually
very costly is a necessary adjunct to a slaughterhouse where the effluent
is directed into a municipal sewage system or where it might find its way
into a river, lake or canal. At both Bunia and Kisangani the effluent is
channelled, without treatment into a nearby stream. Since all viscera are
sold as edible products, there is not a great deal of material remaining
for processing as by-products at Bunia. (Kisangani does not possess a by-
products processing plant, therefore, there is no difficulty regarding fats
in the sewage and the disposal of effluent should not present any problems
of pollution even with the future increased throughput).
41.       The site and layout of the buildings make possible a simple gravity
process of treatment and disposal, first from the existing waste trap to a
catch basin designed to trap fat and solids, then through filter beds and
finally to the channel irrigation of crops. The system permits a continuous
flow of effluent direct from the plant and without any build up likely to
cause bad odors.
42.       The slaughterhouse drains would lead to a catch basin which would
be located adjacent to the security fence, the catch basin would be a conven-
tional over-under gravity flow type with four chambers. A pump would be in-
stalled at the discharge end of the catch basis with the suction pipe leading
to a pump in the floor of the last chamber. This permits the catch basin to
be pumped free of liquids for periodical cleaning.
43.       From the catch basin the effluent gravitates to filter beds which
should be located on the outside of the security fence. The size of the
filter beds should be about 2.5 m x 6 m enclosed by a surrounding wall about
1.6 m high and with a smooth concrete bottom sloping towards a discharge pipe
at one end. A layer of stones about 5 cm to 8 cm in diameter is placed on
the bed floor followed by a layer of smaller stones and finally a covering
of sand a few centimeters deep. The inlet for the effluent is through a
perforated pipe placed above the center of the bed. Two such beds would be
needed to permit rotational cleaning which is carried out by changing the
sand. The filtered effluent would be channelled to the adjacent land which
at Bunia is already being used for horticultural purposes; it is possible to
raise a variety of crops with the recovered water which would be as much as
70% of the total amount of water used in the abattoir.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
Hygiene
44.       The Bunia abattoir would be provided with a separate amenities
building which would be equipped with showers, wash basins and toilets; it
would also contain first aid facilities. The abattoir already possesses
laundry equipment which would be brought into service; similar equipment
would be acquired for the Kisangani abattoir.
45.       Each person reporting for duty would be required to wash and scrub
his hands, preferably in a solution of sodium hypochlorite which could be
readily made at the abattoir; each person will be issued with clean overalls,
apron and cap and boots and leave whatever clothing, not necessary for work,
in the lockers provided. Personnel with bandaged hands or those having
colds should be given work which does not involve their contact with meat.
46.       After using the toilets and before returning to work all personnel
should wash their hands in the amenities building a before entering the
abattoir it is desirable that they should walk through a shallow bath con-
taining a solution of disinfectant.  Hand washing should be insisted upon
again on re-entering the abattoir at the wash hand basins in the processing
departments.
47.       Prior to the commencement of the day's operation, each section
of the abattoir should be washed down thoroughly with hot water. The shift
floors should be constantly swept free of waste and washed down. At the
conclusion of the day's work, the entire abattoir, floors, walls and equip-
ment should be washed down with hot water, to be followed by spraying with
a solution of bacteriacide; particular attention should be given to drains.
48.       Any trays or containers used in processing should be left in an
inverted position after washing. All knives, stub, cleavers, etc., should
be sterilized in boiling water at the end of the day's work and again prior
to resuming work the next day. All waste traps should be cleared daily and
at least once weekly the catch basin should be pumped free of effluent and
thoroughly cleaned. The livestock pens and abattoir surrounds must be
cleaned daily and sprayed with insecticides. A constant watch should be
kept for possible breeding places for flies and other insects. The abattoir
superintendent would be responsible for seeing that these precautions are
carried out and good sanitary conditions are maintained throughout the plant.
Meat Inspection
49.       1974 veterinary records for the Bunia abattoir showed that 0.78%
of beef carcasses and 0.52% of pork carcasses were condemned, mainly because
of generalized cysticercosis. During the same period some 35% of livers were
infected, 22% tongues and 15% hearts. The extent of this disease problem
clearly indicates that a stringent form of meat inspection must be enforced
if the public is to be protected against infection with internal parasites
and other diseases likely to be contacted from animals. It is important,



ANNEX 6
Page 13
therefore, from the point of view of public health to provide the necessary
facilities for the maintenance of an effective meat inspection service.
50.       The improved layout of the plant together with new equipment
proposed would provide for an effective meat inspection service for both
carcasses and offals. To overcome cattle-owner resistance to meat inspec-
tion through fear of losses and with the likelihood of slaughtering outside
of the abattoirs, compensation would be paid for all carcasses for quarters
condemned as unfit for human consumption. Part of the slaughter fees paid
by the catle-owner would cover the cost of carcass compensation. Compensa-
tion would not be paid for condemnations resulting from emaciation or bruis-
ing. The large incidence of disease in offals would prohibit any form of
compensation for condemnation.
Meat Delivery Service
51.       Any improvement in the standard of sanitary conditions in the
abattoirs would to a great extent, be nullified unless equal attention is
paid to the methods of transport and distribution of the meat. At both Bunia
and Kisangani a meat delivery service would be introduced to transport meat
and offals from the abattoir to the markets and shops. In Bunia, the insu-
lated vehicles would also transport chilled and frozen carcasses from the
abattoir to the airstrip for export orders. The butchers will be charged a
fixed nominal sum for this service: Z .45 will be charged to carry beef
carcasses, Z .35 for pork carcasses and Z .15 for mutton or goat. The
transport of offals will vary from Z 0.05 to Z 0.20 per set (Tables 3 and 9).
This fee includes the cost of plastic bags to carry the offals, necessary to
maintain good sanitary conditions in the abattoir and meat truck as well as
to identify the owner of the offals. It is desirable that full use should be
made of the enclosed, insulated meat trucks which are provided for in the
investment costs, once these meat trucks are available the use of taxis,
open carts or any exposed or unhygienic means of transport of meat from the
abattoirs should be prohibited by the local authorities.
Hides
52.       On the basis of Bata's readiness to purchase hides (see para 20
above) it is estimated that improved flaying and treatment of the hides would
double the value of the hides produced at the Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs.
53.       The project proposes to direct particular attention to the prepara-
tion of hides. Using electrical flaying machines and proper skinning knives,
only trained staff would remove hides from the carcasses. A specially
designed concrete table would be constructed where the hides would be ex-
pertly fleshed and then washed. A hide drying shed, complete with frames,
is proposed for suspension drying. The abattoir authority, ONDE, would buy
the hides, green from the butcher for a fixed sum in cash. A round figure
of Z 2.25 is suggested; this is slightly more than the butcher obtains at
present and invariably with delays in payment. The new procedure is there-
fore expected to obtain acceptance by the butcher. Prior to recent currency



ANNEX 6
Page 14
and price changes butchers received just under Z 1.50 per hide; the changes
will increase prices and the figure of Z 2.25 is a best estimate of what it
might rise to. The hides treated at Bunia and Kisangani would be sold to
Bata and apart from those with pre-slaughter damage, it is expected that the
hides would achieve a grading of first and seconds.
54.       Even with both abattoirs operating at capacity throughput they
would process less than 30% of hides produced in the Ituri region. Any major
development which is aimed at increasing the number of top grade hides must
therefore direct paticular attention to the rural areas. As a beginning to
general hide and skin improvement programs, it is proposed to make available
at the Bunia abattoir facilities for the training of slaughtermen from the
outlying towns of the region.
55.       In collaboration with the local authority and butchers, selected
trainees would be taught the use of proper skinning tools, the way to flesh
and wash hides and the correct methods of suspension drying, including the
use of improvised frames. Of the basic standards of hygiene to be followed in
slaughter work will be demonstrated to the trainees. On the completion of the
course a set of knives, steel, knive box and belt will be made available for
use at the rural slaughterhouses.
56.       It is expected that as smaller collectivities and the ranches
become aware of the increased value of hides, in 1975 they fetched no more
than Z .60 - .70 per piece, endeavors will be made to improve upon existing
methods of flaying and drying.  Moreover efforts will be made to improve some
of the 'camp' or fallen hides so many of which are not accounted for, here
the prevalence of anthrax must not be disregarded and precautions shall be
taken accordingly.
57.       The support of Bata, the principal tanner in Zaire, would be forth-
coming with skilled personnel to assist in the training in correct flaying
techniques. Any large scale hide and skin improvement program, with the ikely
use of a mobile demonstration unit to cover the cattle producing areas of
Zaire, would call for outside assistance. The possible participation of the
FAO/DANIDA program should be investigated.
58.       Apart from a small number of wet and dry salted hides prepared
in Shaba, the hides reaching the tannery in Kinshasa are shade suspension
dried and a number are sun-dried hides. Wet salted hides normally fetch the
best prices followed by shade suspension dried. In 1975 the price of salt
Z21-20 for a 20 kg bag in Kinshasa was about double in Bunia which prohibited
the salting process, because each hide requires some 10 kg of salt. The wet
salted hides from Shaba seen in the store at Kinshasa showed definite signs
of red heat: the use of 2% sodium silico fluoride mixed in the salt will
prevent such staining.



ANNEX 6
Page 15
Technical Services
59.       The present poor performance of the abattoirs, the lack of ef-
fective administration and deterioration of plan and equipment makes it
imperative that expert assistance and training form an essential part of
the project; the recruitment of two expatriates will be required to implement
the abattoir sub-project.
60.       Recruitment.  Recruiting of foreign specialists and expert staff
could be done in one of the following ways:
(a) by an experienced livestock management and consulting
company to supply all personnel for the Project through
a packaged team with the consulting company assuming
full responsibility for selection, replacement and sal-
aries (for each post); Governnent would require a can-
didate selection and approval system; or
(b)  by Government assuming full recruitment and selection
responsiblity, advertising internationally and interview-
ing for each post; or
(c) by Government requesting assistance from multi-national
and/or bi-lateral technical assistance agencies in the
recruitment; or
(d) a combination of any of the above.
Expatriate staff must have a working knowledge of French.
61.       Managerial and Technical Adviser.  An expatriate will be recruited
to organize the administration and operations of the abattoirs on a sound
and efficient basis. The two existing managers will retain their responsiblity
for the day to day management of their plant and marketing operations. They
will work to agreed programs established by the Technical Assistance expert
in charge of abattoir operations. The experts services will be required for a
period of two years.
62.       The position will call for a wide experience in the management of
a modern abattoir, including the operation of a plant and equipment covering
slaughter floor, refrigeration and the treatment of by-products, preferably
in a developing country. He will require a sound knowledge of livestock
marketing, the wholesale and retail meat trade and the marketing of hides
and skins.
63.       He will be responsible to the Director of ONDE for the general
administration and direction of the sub-project. He will advise the Director
of ONDE of tender and contract technical requirements and supervise the
operation of building contractors during the stages of plant reconstruction.



ANNEX 6
Page 16
The post will require the introduction of financial budgets, costs control
and the drafting of reports in a form acceptable to the project director.
The adviser will also introduce forms of documentation necessary for the
control of butcher service and general administration.
64.       Re will advise and assist in the training of the incumbent managers.
65.       Engineer.  A suitably qualified expatriate will be required to
supervise the general overhaul of all the existing plant and equipment at
the abattoirs and to supervise the installation of new equipment to be
obtained umder the sub-project; his services will be required for two years.
66.       The position will call for a man possessing recognized qualifica-
tions in engineering and having a wide experience as senior engineer of an
abattoir, preferably in a developing country.
67.       He will have a sound working knowledge of slaughter floor and
by-products, processing plant, boilers and refrigeration plant, together
with general workshop practice. He will introduce a system of preventive
maintenance throughout the abattoir and will advise and train the incumbent
senior engineer in the rigid adherence to routine maintenance work.
68.       Training.  The present manager of the Bunia abattoir would receive
6 months training in abattoir management, plant operation and factory hy-
giene, preferably in Kenya or Botswana. A suitably qualified man would be
selected to undergo similar training prior to assuming the position of
manager at Kisangani. The training course is desirable in addition to that
obtained under the expatriate adviser.
69.       Training in correct flaying techniques and the use of flaying
machines and proper skinning knives is essential to the successful operation
of the abattoirs. The Bata company in Kinshasa would provide an expert to
give on site training at Bunia.
70.       It is proposed to extend the hide improvement training program for
the benefit of the smaller town in Ituri Region; slaughtermen from these
points will be brought into bunia for a short course in correct flaying and
drying techniques, skinning knives, steels, butcher belts and knife boxes
will be made available for the trainees. Present production of hides in the
outlying towns is about 3,500 pieces and valued at Z 23,500. Improved
flaying and drying is expected to yield at least double that.
71.       Due to the present low throughput the abattoir staff are not
gainfully employed and many will be available to assist on renovation works,
fencing and plant overhaul, however, by year 11 the sub-project will have
created above 79 new jobs at Bunia mainly for lower paid workers (Table 6). The
capacity of the abattoir will be increased to 25,000 head of cattle. Desired
sanitary standards will be introduced as well as an effective meat inspection
service, an important start will have been created in the improvement of



ANNEX 6
Page 17
human health. The ranching and fattening sub-project will provide the abat-
toirs with a supply of improved slaughter stock which will be made available
for consuming areas like Kinshasa. These carcasses to a value of Z 4.7
million annually (by year 11 of the Project) will be essentially import
replacements and a savings in foreign exchange. The full use of all by-
products for processing into animal feed-stuffs will assist in the develop-
ment of rural pig and poultry production. By placing particular emphasis on
the careful treatment of hides, the returns obtained for improved hides will
make a considerable contribution to the operating costs of the abattoirs and
increase revenue will accrue to ONDE; the importation of quality hides by the
Bata company would no longer be justified. It is expected that the value of
hides would be doubled as a result of improvements made under the sub-project.



LZ_IRIl
lITUREI.IVSTOCR DIEVEWOPMNT PROJECT                                                                                                                    PROJET DER DEVELOPPEMENT DEt i fIVAGE Eis ITIJRI
Renia Abattoir                                                                                                                                             AatideBonia
Ye-r i                           XTra  2
it..                             U-~~~~~anr  1mii -Case          Na. Of laite        Cos           o   flat           Co-r          Tarai Ca-ta                  Toara  Casas                   Devise
levestacat Tien                           Cas~~~~~~~Ute  Cn9~) îitnire     Na..  Leiras   ~915îo            No. 2              ?2b5oos       Na. Tara  d lattas           Cabas îoa-aaCasredIaetseer
(2'OO01     (11 eA              (32299
A   Etr  barbe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Traaa  d           dssaeased  sire
Reveesl, a--atty f....                                  ba.2                                   .63             56                                                   .01                    .3i             67                                Rasaaavli1aaet de iaibar   dv  dne
periar-  fea-                                 ta             552                   5.50           30O4-                                                 5.50                    3.04           3.50                               b-eaaav-iiemrat de laolbrara pdriplsérlqn
Caaa.reti. 'spbi  spra  ni oadig boy                    v234                                                i 163               --40~                                                     l.63           i 8                                 TabIle   ab.asnset  de En e-sMe
Rab-torsE  A                                                                                5 2l                                                                          5.25           6 04       43       2.26                        Toea1 parvic1 A
E   aildiage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8   Stimenre
Inosssî  tain  baoldacg Car pag aiobr             .2              235                 54             12 69                                                  5 4                    ET 69          14 59                                  îg~~1j9a   re~2esia
Eses-I eaarrrr  Les aise                                n                                   5                 30                -                                 o30                                     .34                                 eavreeatde la file  pan  1iabatrage
sinbe   eafor oeîlc-                                            93                '40             22 32                --240                                                    22 32          25.86                                 asdebtnedsb-vies
fer bide fleeblcg sad  -ahiag                                          60                  42              2.40                                 -40                                     2.40            2.26                                        dc bbrleîet prieripel se  -anc
pan  1'qacisge lelve
A-ili.. bl-k           abiethe                                  220                 '               18.90               --70                                                     18 90          21.04                                sled.vsitsdeteet tailettes
Ride deyisg ..a   ilb  fra--  etore                     e1             145                 140             20.30                --140                                                    20.30          23.35                                Reabair B fess   y-reePes les cadre
C--d .1 -Sh-    ~~l.b,  -1-n21l                                              35               3.85                -                                 I3.65                                  4.43                               tie       tleetrep--Re        P         1
Ra~b-total B5                                                                              Rf 76                                                                         80 76          92.87       22       97.9                     Tari1 pearaie1 B
C Rtural Rerrias-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tr-sa  de filabeeie
baver  b-d  atk 14 000 gale E  ilrb stad                                                                                                                                                                                                     Resernei  b~ e.a  (f,000 gaI. >  vn  etan
25 v 4igbl            v          13,973                    1             13.92               -                                                        13.97          16 f7                                   de 25 v de tant
Cblarsarln  dnatg nat                             an             560                   I                 56               -                                                           .56            64                                ir-pe de  selstn
iavnsdpapes   IO firtsga                         Ont          3,725                   i              3 73                -                                                         3.73           4.20                                Teeya-  gelave           ...acesoe-
Efilae..taa-tb bas t5Care  beda vit 50                                                                                                                                                                                                         i.leletia   d-es   . e -anées   bassEsi de
aba itcsirrgtastd isad.                          1cr        10,180                    i             11.18               -                                                        11.08          12 86                                 dée-at-netr      pssîvae
mbtriC                                                                                 29.44                                                                        29.44          33.86        54     15 81             d'rigre
El-il.1   il                                                                                                                                                                                                   D   I..t.il.ti...____  Tvalfacle
D-vl   eerr,I       as  100 kva                         set         36,218                  75-               .08              710             27.02               O                     36 02          41.42                                Ce-peeeanbedee.0   n
Wi-sg nvd fitta-ga                                       1cr         3,000                                    .75                               2.23               i                      3 00           3 45                                Fila  él-oritfa.eeeerae -le
Rab-tarai a                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          ~~~.22  2Q4 27  39 02  44.87  100  39 0!         Tara   partiel i
tbeeibreeaa                                                  2.590                  c                  60              15                  79              i                      2 39           2.75                                Bacl    a    epe-ge des nesaei-ane
GOailtatiae d-ccc tatn     -a facnr                                   ,05                                     .28                                 R82                                     1.10           0.27                                fore  b  alnie  aal   a  d aatg
Captive bait, nei          -gcd  --rerdge-              la              340                                    09                                  25i343PseetbclseOotrnete
ae-f d,,e....sg relee         fi-rd,  --ovi                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ch-arta   ds dépvillsge  -ve  2 -ane   rinc
-Aeaebbc tve-d                                    Oc             290                                    36                                1.09              .'                      I45            1.67                                 2 cane  piv-retse, et des pavas. de
F1iysvg  hbrl-r, vi- ertilb                             v               795                                    80                                2.38                                      3 16           3 66                               aqarr-   esr   ée...ne
Psncabtag teble esnes    tc  - tiebal.r
legs           a              915                                   .4b                                1  37            1.O83                                   2.10T-l     p..i-db,àPi.
C--aa  episafiag  sa iatrian                                         1,710                                    .43                                i 28              o                       i 71          1.92                                sale  6 élrasqe   an  denprls-sase
Op-rsn-  pintfceva                                      a9 35                                                 .47              "I40                                2                      1.8P2.1                                                           P.reace    patle-nab
Tables P.   1n eril      -eeei c-   bale                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tables 7e a lere   le I        a  an acier
tabaine lege                    ta.            ~~~~~~~~~640                           .32                                  96              Z1 28                                  i ai                                 iscaîdasi   et les pieds   aasies
RIRebrcn    gala  rnbbe- ry-d  hbess1                   aa               70                 '07                                                   .21              4                        .28            .32                               Erares5pan   raier glsl ae
d-sernes b pava  deratha
slselbandbasie5 etsnl1,stei                        ta              530                                   .28                                  82              2                        il R5            227asa   esiriaisl
vnaic5ace  -vtlvg                     o.            175                                   .13                                  40              O53                                     .61                                 sdoîeavd-ecaeseae  des baltes
va  cir  anideble
M»y 10, 1976                                                                                                                                                                      l   0ac12 






iTLRI1 LIVOOTO3DO tttiî.OtttttS 0003605                                                                                                              F620 ETiD DRVt7t3PPObET DE tL OLOViOt *N 1TCDI                            Ak3XANX4
Eelai bottoir                                                                                                                                         PA-sioio de   O= tabelSctios                                              1 (n)
toocostOt Docra                                                                                                  toit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 0' SotmaetlBAs.,c,o
toote t                          bD6at 2                                                                                    Y E  Cop...
Matée tAooéo                                                                                                   F O  teoo-,1
Investl ç at 7tee                      ~~~DoDis,é    Doli  tosO        ko  dE nLOtit      Coat         Ro  of Doit,       CDea          notai toit'                 total Toot Px3eotisea                                     &éoi     Detse2t
17)                             (    > OOOl                     (Z'000)                                   (2 000)    (iL'  an)                 'Z 0°l
Lito,oa,gho ssara                                       No.            m                  25L              20               75%5           .60               1                       .00         .91                                        tuao.,î..pot.oioïo todoc  oola .=0
Pliastoooitgoe:ttooot:trsnsoa  Itct  7 ptOt                                                                                                                                                                                                 lOtitir0ag  toto  i obtotega Oas 0oroc:
8    - Ia-        a 3                                 ato           460                 "               .1               "              .34               1                       .46         .53                                         2oaofo  tcîaoo2oîooc  de
Yis bOe.diahactchkl.s, skild tse                        nn.             7                                 .O0                              .10              Do                       .14         .106                                       piretce pou eL        o     iao
S          --ld o  otnko Ith Ieo.l lifitiN:oc-adI                   1,295                                 .30               '             I.00               I                      1.30        1.50                                                     ttot.oo.atototrto   pao
-ilI.                                                                 220 pteto lit  oîttt1,  509  20.    .06               "               .16              i                       .22         .25                                         -n                            IIIr  o cL
Fis du-p oaSis  0tiaad                                  00.           560                                 .14                               .42              1                       .56         .64                                        TbIle de Oéohaooe dec yooa  at. ea
OeobreIst21" sktdtyt.                                   no              7                                 .6                                .79            160                      1.05        1.21                                          Ntoe         l' tDOII O         -
TS.ie,ti.,l,ss co4u  2  x  I oîlt legs                  o.           iii                 "               . i                               .68              1                       .64         .70                                        Tablcst  sol  Ooooiabo G p-do
Oa,tsaod basio, " en laaa aIasl l.                                   550                                 .14                               .61              1                       .55         .63                                          -tottehtotoi deblo.
o,atDa0.ateiîisee  bo, siciot.ss aussi                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rtolto do cot6sistn     a:e
ici> motottig, etro, 000010                             =0o           175                 "               .040                              13               1                       .16         .10                                        AUotct  aooOttOet
torastot toiso                                          00.         1,b9D                 t               ,43                '            1.27               I                      1.20        1.00 3a6o o  doIdé0oîoî
ot=s cottooD to btOi scetlions                                                                                                                                                                                                               ttlea       to   "'e        eooiooe
onoodbtooteoi                                           Do.         1,555                20%              .59               "             1.17               t                      1.50        1.79                                        téseotoioaÀaop
tactob tables. 4.5. 01,                                  a,.          9LS                                 .25                               .09              1                       .90        1.20                                        Tetîcc Cpat0eS de Oto o la
tortabia olOsi bita. gent. robb-ei yre6hd toeb          00.            70                                 .07                               .21              4                       .28         .32                                          Sot DotOtiot  DoOt tac cb-a.
OaotOt,oloe naloaoiolod -bb- toye-d ooecla              00.           410                                 .35                               .Y9              3                      1.31        1.52                                         colote   todooc  et   ooltotioO
Pacte tio,ottth ito,sltio iseo                          'o.            55                                 .08                               .22             10                       .3D         .J5                                        FoDtbelLeN   CPPtvopLdeta'couhau
îeo/loietsoestsoilliaio   bp3oes  stotoltea                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ootoo ica set  oora   e=tier ioooidctle
aiea1  osilmooootita. stoohost Ite                     oo.           740                                 . Od                              18              i                        .24e        . 2r                                      etthottas  e oootioiii uooD pOt2
Ot.okLttg toeots lot osd tofeias. elotilo,I= ftietcaquio ot.... LaaIi.Ot  poor 1bs
a-odlo-d                                              00.            30                                 .40                             1.10             t0                       1.50        1.73                                           uto  (eost itio   .
ooiodciooc                            00.           ~~~~~~~~~~~100                      .04                               .12              i                       .10          .10                                        Inl
Heyno;L tccttcr Doooooo.poaou   flîoible to.e           00.            6D                                  G                                T0  2           6                        .3           41                                        ç8bap01cottrctestulI  ,          ui
Diatoors  oo sa1   crctttlo 20Xto.                                    L20                                 .03               '               .09             I                        .12         .1 Lteo6 ERD iE  pletoot.  tcpaitO   do 2tD t60
grvop Dot celan  ttIt  sot ci0hta                       00.            80                 e               .02               "              .06              i                        .00         .09                                        oa,ola ù pitcao-godet 20-       poldc
SklOoitg kotoas 4'                                      00.             5                 "                05                               13             36                        .10         .21                                        Cooteato de dépootil6ge 6"
Dootîo  Oit,es 6"                                       to.             5                 ".05                              t               .13            56                        .1          .21                                        tootocoo hoeO2
stcko       IoCso                                       00                                                 0                                1               0.5                                  .0ouso   tcd                                                     0
lotibat Soîts                                           nn.             7                                  Ob                               i .9           36                        .X3         .209                                       tsiot,rea de tootsesa
Btther:kofeocsas                                        to.             5 9                               .08                               .24            56                        .32         .37                                        3:otrc ù lob--auodrobuts
iteele, rooad                                           t0.            9O"                                .08              st               24             56                        .32         .37                                        Y_il. lsiotuio.
Pool cao, oitlo  spash blîdce                           Io 1l                                             .02               "              .05              G                        .01         .0C8                                       trIo, 0 oso  000 dbe  laces ds
cîaooaoo                                                Do.            24                 tf             .04                "               .10             C                        .14         .16                                        totpooooa
G ttiDNtboItoo                                          00.             9                12               .03               _              .08             12                       .11          .13                                        pIstch-o  Ideropot
Pa-kil-c,tt ooDd cld storcs                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sîaoion de,saltatotset
iftIrgo to'rk, ecoal 1  e 1.1-                          nn.           550                ot6              .14              755              .41             1                        .56         .b4                                        t5RErltaoiotùistic oeon. 1et Oa 1.
t.ltets, otodet                                         no             Iht               40               .04              _                -              4û                        .04         .74                                        petilloto, da btolc
Oetloo, P' o 1~ oaltciccd tobolat al-    s Io.                        4D0                256              .Z0D             75              .60              2                        .80         .92                                        Teinta    p  ds     ct eeeosoî,r
ptaotfoo  coolo, rapoolty 205  doiltype 0,,                           795                                 .20           6          0                                                                 t9                                      caLtcitde
400*1 otE,Ooto  tea=s, 1.Sm0 ,R ai    S=                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,s,Oa  poot Ocete   e as soct  do
sgeo_tisO teiti totolco  -Ittd                        0             220                 2               .44                               _               2                        .44         .1î                                          1,5= t ta oSa  10 aciot 6cloaotcé
Olftl rLatioc tcblec- 2= x 12al8ooted                   0.             10                                                                                                                                                                   T z  -  ie V  o b.
gaottttst do 2m o
0t_roDoo0t, ,et6Oot                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sootito20 desoi.,-poodoitt
OloodooagoisgatOg   st  0.15=0 x    o= x .75            00            220                                 .22                               -               I                        .22         .25                                          ;,   do          t     do gagd
tloal hoici. totith irak, oit. rop0e"jdeve6ol           no.           400                                 .îî12            75%             .36              1                        48           5D                                                 manue    r        oabia
Pl.lfor   fofll, Depac   200                       20  00.            120                                 .o3                              .09              1                        .12          14                                           àâtclliqoeattoto   g ritot.
.id.  hbd seq0ip1tt                                                                                                                                                                 100 k4
bide ftss, eoodat                                      ro             10               120               30               -                90            L20                      1.20         0.40                                        Heug3  e o            is
etfoto sotere  aoltitO- -       200 k00.                              120                25b              73 S0                            .09              1                        12           14
blda pastIst
tub-toosl O                                                                L11.4                             20.40                                    39 59        45503         96      372.6
DIly 1S, 197l






MAIRE
Table/Tableu i1 C!
ITURI LIVESITOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        PROJiT TE DEVELOPPTEMENT DE L'ELEVACE t'L ITUR
Douta Abattoir                                                                                                  Abattoir de Ducie
Inv_etnur Coste                                                                                               Ciuts d'lonvetiateTect
Investurntt Itec                                                                 ea 
Tehr l                 yef ~Tsr 2
jm~~~. 1  - ~Année -2                                                                      Pt.' Cncnoout
lreereent Trac                                   Dit    Doilt Cae           Mo.  f Unira     ct        No. ai Unit    Coet         Total Delta            Totl e. E Csa               Doviep
Ûuc iC'Dttaire   No. diUoitea    bH            T.d ine CTOuL              Do. total d'Tcitee   'éota -To tas.
(T)                             (Z'OOC)                    (Z'OOi)                           (Z'ODO)   (US$ Eq.)          (Z'OOO)
T  Maintenants VlorkshoD                                                                                                                                                                                                Y.  Ate_ier d'Entr tie
W-ok benchn.e -eoden                                      no.         55                  4             .22           -            -               4                  .22        .25                                      Deora de Travail scbiis
BEei=   gni.dici gJcnioe, . o9oîiaed                      no.        150                  1             .15           _                            1                  .15        .17                                     neelCamotcur
teoh drillig                                                .         90                                              -            -               I                  .09        .10
Mccci cuttiel                                             ce.         60                  1             .06           _                            1                  .06        .07                                      Ch.lTeno       e 
Band toola, d,îîî,ttîeden  elortrin                       ion        120                  1             .12           _            -               1                  .12        .14                                      Outile (aà -ai) perreuse et merle él-ctiques
ay.aoeîplacaaîIdleg equiprnrnt                            ion        570                  i             .57           -            -               I                  .          .66
glectrio wlding equipgtee                             loi        890                  1             .-                                         1                  .35        .2                                         "itîl.ge de soudure (Oaentyleu
Teal bpesa, .onulete nerbanits                            Ca.         7b                  5             .             _            _                                  .55        .41                                      Unires '5 ontils roapîbtet denravinincs
"   " "   electrician              no.         30                  2             .06           _-                          2                   .06        .07                                                                      eientnonleno
c   "        r       nprarpent                          eo.        100                  1             .10                        _              I                   .10        .12                                                                      oberpenriere
DVoca,  beer lieg, choit baise, I-oka                     loi        400                  1             .40           _            _               I                  .4D        .46                                      Palans, rrtqas, er4n4
ineoee pretoarea goca, erset-es acd aoodry rodal          Tnt        300                  1             .30                        _               I                  .30        .un    de gouisa                                                    naoens
ub-rotaI F P                                                             3.31                                                           3.31      3581           95        314                          Total partial r
C  TransDort                                                                                                                                                                                                            C  Traenponr
Sicav daltnsny truck 7-8 ton, insrlatnd body              00.    29,670                   25X.        7.42            757         22.25            1                29.67                                                 Cdciln de Lincaiton dc vianda, 7-8 rons) aven
Mtat deltnery van 30 rut I-ulstcd bldy                            8,9900                             2.23                         6.67            1                 8.90                                                 Cctocnnrrn de linrat no, UT  cwt -                letton
Lted nanan  SWB                                                    8,900                              4.45                        13.35            2               17.80                                                 tWendB-rere, ami
iub-totl C                                                               14.10                       42.27                             56.37      64.82          91       51.33                         Tnota  pannIe  T
n  Adcicistnaiioc & vert cftitc  f-nniren  and cqci0.enr        lot      2,71D                   I           2.71           _              -             1                 2.71       3.12          33         .90      H  tobilinrnr éqoipeor p-or On burear sdninitrnatif
-  Sub-notai                                                                                                                                                                                et nelci dn veérei- ai-e
T  nenovario cs A R epa i ns                                                                  '                                                                                                                         i Ilperati-n etR  =iseannt
Gsnerol ovenI,onl pe ail plant, m-chicery                 lIt      4l87S                  1           4.ô8            -              _             1                4.21        5,12                                     Décision de ions las équipement-s des  chies  du
Denenatan nuit acd re-indini cotons                       lni    17,153                   1          17.16            -              -             1               17.16       19  7Eenét-n  aides anisns 4,
neyerai stanes ccd aparca                                 ion      7,225                  -                           I            7.23            1                7.23        0.32                                     Uttillage géténal et piees de reaiacgs
lui-ttala                                                                 22.04                        7.23                             29.27      33.66          33        9.72                           TatrI partiel I
J  IesIaitecn o-Oc  .et  plant   sub  etot}                    Iot      1.380                   -                          I             1.38           1                 1.30       1.59           -         -           Proie d'Insiallotioo desncov.aanequipemn
, F-right, icanancacZabgea, rcaltenh-cotal K                     lai    23,215                   _                          1           23.22            1                23.22      26.70          69       16.07      t  Froie de tranaprr  t dnT  e            j         le dR
L  Archicr& 6             nacint     b fn a-cab-tetal t          1er     9,370                   1           9.37           _              _             1                 9.37      10,77           -         -        L  Hcnaralnee de IAt-oitenre et dee ingeinir-
TUtal panticl t 5/
Totale A-i.                                                                                   187.87                       131.77                           319.64    367.59           41      1991.10                     Ucia  A-L.
Trabaial Servîtes -                                                                                                                                                                                                       Serîe   Tetbise6'
inaceericll4atechnicalasdviser                                                                        26.10                        26.10                            52.20       10 060.03              52.20            iastîler tenlque et do gesticn
19.57                       19.58                            39.15       45.02                  39.15
Total teo4ei6al seivines                                                                      15.17                       45.68                             91.35     105.05         100       91.35                    TalaI . ne1vîne  tacha iqana
Frtcicaîd ratal in -eterent aaar-6Buna Abci.iîr                                                        233.54                       177.45                           410.99    472 64            69      265.53        Eariceiin  du ni n               o ap
V'  Pointa raolais0d f.o.b. Nbrth Erotpnec pante.                                                                                                     2/  Pria taneulée tel. a pantnî  des portc coa  nss.
2/  ornent ni paYtect taquinad au tcniiaation of order, 25% fio  itese se  -anked  dcer D, E 6 i.                                                    2/ Dlociant des aerrhe  I vananr an nesstsdt, 257 de9 art bisa  anertte  sans D. T  et G.
3/ FPnight ec       -dtatai on ehipmenta froc  Nlotth Enrcp-e  pcrts te katadi at 17 1/2% af tout sieh 12 1/2% I1-a1 tat:peri                         3/  fraie de traceapat pcn baitsa  à partir des perct  cunapéea. jouqu'à Maittdi   ctàce  i 17 112% do rae tlotI1 ot
pp items -nni- D and E (Ile   lool goodc) and F.                                                                                                     12 1/2% paon On touapani doanatiqan, poui Ile  artiolea Ocnn-ita ente D    t    inc   Oaa orticles de fabnraiae
4/bOd  lnbj  oasi tuninlda  b-i n-  taparnir  eI.nnt                                                                                                        nole) et P.
471  li ci A i t                 bbtl ta a n n  ticta onentenstt cath iutcn-ti-aa  pnantite.                                                          4A   Celte de la nsin d'oeuvt  icaloel ncus, noie pos roue de l'ingnilenr éto..gor.
6/  75% nf rcbctnlcl  _rvice cosct  ellonai  d ne Bnica a-d 253 ne ilsaugati.                                                                         5/  10% de A et B, on qui eston  se àiirat   oatrvatnint  nordani b la prsliqae int.o.atio.ni ..
6/ 75% dCe _onUr doee .ervices toahoiq.ea tant .ittibola à Bunia, at 257 à uîcangoni.
lv ID mai 1976
Day 10, 1976






g                               g  ggj  -                                                                          2    g
IL   I   L          V                                                             
I
g.     gg                         I
g
I 
gg.g                                                        6'
k           k                    Il                                                           k                 r4g
k        k   h                                           g ggg               k                   t       t
k   k kil       k h k*gggg                 gtg   Igggsggg.gggg                                      [       j
r       6' r   r          r: j;                     g   stg    kt
- lE -
k g v-   k k k                                                                      K- r»   [ ]
I j i                                                              k;    j
::; rt
ggggg             h               i                v
6'  gg                                        ,                                                      s
*    -                    [g:Wgg           YgYsg              :s'-"' gg    g
g ggq6'g                           ;: - k                                               -                                         g
h               h.:.?                                                        1h                  g<g
- g - g g g
h
lE I g.gt g 
r             t r ltt  g j>                                               ggg-s                              6'6'5gEg
-        -         r
E                                                                                                         .
:6'
6'                                                     L
I                                                                           g
g






Itota ilattoo       Yerr          YZ2baooa  4                                 l.   5ol, 6-                - d7 t         -ta,oNa.   1-2
Atotte  oZ ANtaNla      ctadltNtoI                             otl                      3,250                   3,295         3,395         3,500         3,600         3,010          3,860         4,015         4,005         4,340          4,515         4,6'95           NEE0NIa,N6O
6opor-                      400i,e   1, 300  3,0                                ,236        4,700         7,1N3          3,060        11,136        17,205        19,320         21,765        25,945         Tprol,
Tota1                    3.600                    4.295         431 ~         6. 7N0        0.35         ICONES1        12. 50        1574          21,j0a_60A226.O                , 280     _30.640                Tota
6001  Looa0~~~~~~~~         2,300                   Z02     Z,500         0,500         2,560"0.             2,500         2,500         2,500          2,500         2,500         Z,500         2,500          0Zo,oto    oN.
200                   1.000         0,500         1,700         2,100         2,700         3,2006         3,300         6,400         5,3~      ,00         5,600 5NZ            tpealt
lt-ai  o 500             3,,5flO        3131~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  5,3p642G  4.bO2   5.202         31.ZPQ         6,300         3AO           3,11           6300          8.300               ONa1
TotoN  lotal     ONENI         ~~~~Tota      Totl           Total         Total         ToNa1         T-NL           Total          oN
toto1                      Znooo         Oo,n               ltaNo    .Tano         Amatt          lioont        loo-o         Aounot         Aionn          -uOttoo       Mou5nt
OtE   Tleor tott-ita    --ONO                         Total         Total         total          Total         Tota1         Totl          Tota          Total          TotoN         Total           otol.
battit                     INd               .15                                        .49           .51            .55           .54           .56           .56            6             .03           .65           .66            .70
rogs                         -               .10                                        .25            05            . 20          .25           .25           .25           .25            .25           .20           . 25           .25ttt
500-toTal                                                                              .74      ~     7             .7            .79           .80           .03           .75            68            .90           .~3           .95                     ToNa    atttll
t-il                h-d~Faa          4.00                                      03.10         03.56         14.00          14.40         14.84         15.44         66.06         06.00          09.56         00.06         18.70              catta0.btaa0
FOot                            ~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~~~2.50  0.0  4,25  0.25      6.25          6.25          6.25          6.22          6.25           6.25          6.25          0.25Pto
tob Notai                                                       ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~16 43  19.65  20.25  00.65  21.209  21.69  02,30    22.95         23.00         045             5.05                      toO7ttt
ootooaaasoattoe.     Eoa.d             .45                                      0.42          1:,50          0.56           .6           1.            1.~72         1.~761        2.0            094           20            2,10                   Z- .t.a.a   bo000_
0061  .95                                     .00           .06           .66            .67~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~                     ~~~~        ~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ .0  .07  .02  7  .0   7  8.7000
0f6ala/oottaoa~~~~~~~~~~~~oatî0a  .20                          .05          .~~~~~~~~~~67  .69           .01           .74           .77           .00            .03           .06           .90            693ltaltatotr
pi~~~~~~~~a  .06 ~~~~~~~~~~~~.25                                  .25           .10            .0      .5           .       05     .5           .       05 .2    5                  .05           .05700
6o6.Nooaî                                                        5~~~     ~ ~~~~        ~    ~~~~~         ~~~~~         ~~~~.24    3  3,52 53.44  2.52  3Lot  3.71  3.6           3,00          4.04          4.05                      Ttoto  tpttoal
os-total  221                                                   0~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~             ~~~~~~        ~~~1,40  25.90  24.40  24.008  25,42  26.03  26.77        07/.64        26.45         00.26          36.00                     Total patti.1 <A
PanE  taToNlaNa            Eo                0~~~      ~     ~~~          ~         ~~~.45  .44  187.86  26l0.2  611.06        898.05      3,312.7N      1,552.94      21,70.98       3.068.21      3,612.66      3,905.81      4,725.64               oa
lîvoro /Foaoto/totooas  ..          .75              .6~~~~~~~~~:4           2.40          3.12           0.07~        îlOt1         17.65         16.05         26.051        40,:29        46.30          02.2          52 .27                      oo/oaolot
tropea/îuoealaittotao  ,                .~~      ~      ~~~~35  62                             2.0            7.7           7.6          156           1626          256           57.9          47,6           4 7.99        57.21opîpOoîro
Otteaootoa                               .~~     ~      ~~~           ~          ~~~ ~         ~~~03  .11,  43  .26  1.42   2.06          9.07          35657                         7,43         0.3           946           11.21
SîaO.  Tro,  -oo                    at                .06             1.52                     5.00           1.40        10,70          027.2         60.50         67.29          iNt6         60.07         200.2         194,96        047.006.,   od,   oo
S.  1-oo                                                                              96.60        273.35        641.92        946.021    0,339.07      0.640.94      2.296.92       5.352.94      396201.î      4.009.56      5,007.60                      Total patta.î
porE  tattota                                 .6~    ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~5 5.7        531.10        52.36         79.261        0017,25       155.1         1621.21       10~2.613      229,65        256.52         296.94        29N,94             Toos   Nra-O
-ed oUais.                                            .75-.3                                                 26             3.05          0.0           6.03          7.20          3.5           9100.46                     09.05           .130
.0      .03                      .06            .21           .27           .34           .43            51            Et           .70            .02           .6    .93 
toi-total                                                       ~~~~~~        ~~~~~         ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~45.52  6ELlO  63.30  107.27  140.62  165.92  201,79  253.65      270.60        -tA       0.92                            loto  pa9la
-ît, opeos..    Otooto,- oo                                                                      4,295        20,5395       23,390         26.845        30,660        33,160        30,927        46,955        50,775         02.302        52,520Poaa                    thaFasitt
astooto               ~~~~~~~4.15                               17.82         04.64         97.95        112.41        227.26        130.61         159,66        194.78        210.72         229.50        258,63                              Ott
0a6-tototl  IN,                                                                      761.93        409.31        82a.20      1,,164.70    1,5837         1.949.47      2.658,57      3.781.37       4,301,42      4 749.92       - 517.17                    Toa    otlcO1 <36
boN arol                        î~        ~        ~~~~~~~ ~~g ~ 35                        1.21           0.59          1.97         0.401         3.26^          3.4           4.5           1.6           68674.66                                       tct   eoid
tOood aaaî        -                 .35                                      2.07          5.05          4.20         5.20          6.56           2.50           6.3~~~~~~~~2  '  1.1  12.243  1.5       0525            07,94             talt  doao
oN   atd hot  taN-                                           2                                      6.20           6.57          9.0         11 ~.75       12.14          17.60î        22.304       29.93          03.09         36 .79         42.26              tatîte de  -ont. o  de
IdLoto                                       ~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~           ~~~    ~~.30  .32  .o4  .51  .62  .84      .9          1.16         1.56           0.72          0.91            2.23             toIf                  aaboo,
36ttî(Ci                                                                         1U.42         01.45         06. 2t       09.96         25.85          28.78         37.07         50.00         55.02         61.30           71.33             tota  to-tte   101
Tota   - -to la (A) Z (7) 6(0)                                             15.067/                  297.75        454.4         32t6~    3,79.9          2,07_64          04.6 38     2.n76799    3.8,9.01       4.385.27    4.0840.6          t0016,6.3             Itoot-   total121.6+0
Totalop-etingtoaoa                                                                                  342.62        5060,56       673.79    ,O   1n O659.72               1,943 24      2,507-04   3,255 91    4,194  56          4.550.5051,20519 Ittil0-1                           de  NOEO
Taogio,  teteaboîs Tort opatatoogoosta                                     7~~~~~~~~~~~~~46.670  (46.027  29.93)      L4S8        .610            61.14        04.9           73.70        257.70        202.10..        4133,                -'to l  ééiîtt          Ctt
V   N.  il ~~_j ~rk --pt-   1-  .-il.bilit,  f  ff.l. ft-  -111./pi=g        2otédaool.sfraldd
1'  tot  Talla t                                                                                                       1/d                             tl I- t lt olat.
t   90 toorasset,  lots1 ptE  oooaostptoto dote    f soNlNltt  o  otaatrmIallapl                               2V-ttatti-aattdel  tstasaal- ltaadopot -'et-ie - totdote-    1fted
5'  Th,taghp.t dataîla Tab1o 5. Sels pelotas for  -lN t    N av-rtg  bot i  pr- aolt  dirf-ateotta                           h/oktîls do  -adtn               Tablato 5.  Lot  ,,i. detet  Zal NS a.de  ont eo -ta.a-a,  -aadiOat  tI
,il s    b60   Aoadrafl -tia   -Oto  p         pîrtanoreo..ad thl qatlity oN tha a.tat                                   aoo ttl téa6    pao  talaérl  rota d, lEatt   la qatt  da il  iacd..
60  lSt T.blo 5~                                                                                                             6/   Vair   aîa  5.
70  Estaated ordae  o          -od fa  th.6 filo.t  leht N-thl eN 1975.                                                      70  Taiaîlnts4     so-  tes Ootdeaee-9nota 000  e  0-air.nt  de 1975
2000 I2. 1926                                                                                                                Ilo 122    lt  1976






DAtRE
ANNEX/ANNEXE 6,
ITEUI IVISE)EDK( DREIELOEPNTD PEETECT                                                                    PRO.JET DE DEVELEFPEIOENT DE_I'E.LEEAGE EN IOD)                                                    aRo/atro    4
DENEA ABAEEOER                                                                                              Abattoir Do Duota.
Darchas  of Lattie                                                                                              Achats de Bota,it
Avare T  l'rojt   Aseo   E   Anod  2   AmE  3    Ano-  4    Ant-   S   Y-af  6    Ans-  7   Ann-   8    KE-E9    An-cro ID            -oninl-20
A.  Aoisaîe p-nrh-sd froc 'T-oditionol  htad                                                                                                                                                                             A_  Achats du Dotait do T-ooanEad-or
Dartr  nioif     î      (hd)                               200              -4DB        450         475        EDE         558         83E        885       1,B890        E,E40       1,30E         i,B40                      obs6  oon   (itos)
ti sghti(kg)                                           310                310       310         311        SEt         312         313        3E4         315           316         316           3tE                     Poids  i   (kg)
Esta1 orightt(kg)                                      62,DDE            124,00DB  t39,500D  147,7258  155,508E   171,600D  259,7908  277,89E8  134,3508    423,44E     410800DD                  5)8.24E8(                   Poids eoeaE  (kg)
PeEc- pot tiDo (E)                                            .2E                 D        .8         .E          .D          .8         .E          .8.0                      .8D         .8             BPis par kilo  (E)
Dot-total                                         13,640            99,280  111,B00   E18,160   I24,400   t37,28Q    207,830   222,310   274,680                 338,750   328,640         4t4,590                           Totai partiot
Nombre of a-io,I  (bd)                                     200                3DB       320         340        E5D         3B0         37E        4EE         48E           570          6D0           74E0oor   d'..aiton   toon
Lcneaol~~~~~ght (kg)                                 28E                8          8          8           8           8 283                 284         283           286         286           286                     Poids vif (kg)
Enta) wetght (kg)                                      56,DEE             84,288   89,600       95,540    98B,350   10l,520   104,71E    E1E,B00    136,B00             163,020   1B8,760         2l1,640                     poids totol  (kgE
Otite pot kilo (Z)                                            .22               .88        ST0        .8E         .8E         . 8E       .85         .8E          .88          .8E         .8E           .8E                  Pria pon ktlo
Dot-toto)                                          2E, 3'T          67,200   71(80E    7b,43E         28.B80    81.220    83.773         90DEBE    109,440        130,420   E)E,DTD         169,310                           Toto)   porcit
,''netai-a1s  (hd(                                    -                  70         EW0      1,320      lE9nE       3,E00       3,81)       EEIE0       9,805       10,24E      12,4B5        16,300DatoEnia..  (trie)
Liavogie(t)-                                                             24E        24E        24)        2EtE         242        243         244         245           246        2Eic           246                      od  vt(n
<oit,  -sight  <tgl                                                       62B,400   2B,BEE    J1îBE2       .67,34E    Drn7,DDE    925,83E  1,iE9t,84d  2,4EE2,22D    2,Ei9,84E  3,071,310   4,0E9800E                         Ponds ctai (k
-'cic  pe  toTo  (Z)                                                            .54       .54         .E4         .54        .54         .54         .54         534           .54         .34           -54                  Pria pat kt.t (Z)
Et)- -c[O3f                                                        33,70E    E3,53D    171,780   252,47E    457,380   499,950   8E),DEE  1.297,200   1,36E,280 1,658,510   2,165,290                                         Tactl poîtiot (E)
Bob     i n   onimoD   ('d)                          400                960        890      2,133      2,79E       ZESE0       SEtE       7,395      11,375        E2,150      14,445        1D,B8D                     Boadbro entai d'oniaauo  (tons,
ETaE1 t1narreen gî  (kRE)                             DEEDEE             270.4E0  237,808    581,38)    721)39E  ),12E,tDE  I,2EE,33E  1,882,33E  2.882,37)    3,105,500 3,67E.70   4.739.68E                                 Poids vift.enca  (kg)
Eotoi con ta  (E                                        5                200_10E  198_5842   366_370   455.550   _675.880   771)550 i 118.24E 1,ttî..3.2Q    i.8.EE9.EO 7 138 168   2.E749.190                                uCCI  ctai  (o)
Dnnbre of ariaaEn  End3            -                  ~~~      ~~~    ~ ~~~40  365  2iE  38E       hiE        48E         525         74E         1,18E       1,335         1.283                      Eo-b-s d' -niro     (t-   n
Li--oigDt ((n)-                                                          D   30    35         3DB         3E7        310         313         316        319            322        325            325                     Poidn  iD  (k47)
Tsta1 weiEtc (kg)                                    -12,2D0  111,325                     64,26E    178,0t0   188,408    150,240   185,80E    236,060             379,96E   433,87E         4)7,623                      Poids ctai. (kg)
Otit  po  Entoll  (E)                                -.8E                            .8E        .85         .8E        .8E         .8E         .8E         .8E           .8T         .88           .88                   Prin par kiln  (O)
Dot-Ltona  (2)                                                    9 ,76E   89,06E      51,41E   142,450   158,720   120,19E    132,720   188,85E              303,970   347,100         334,100                          Entai partiel  <0E
Orn  fatteoieg tord                                                                                                                                                                                                  Do ET-pean d'ranobr..h
Noobseni _einaln (Rd)                                --                            45         935      t,405       2,E55       2,800      3,818       5,89E         5,990       5,985         5,9888Eae    'nen    tts
tLv-neigtt (kg)                                      --                           285         287         289        291         293     3  29           2897          289        38)            380                    Poidn vif (kg)
En ta1 -ight (kg)                                    -                  -      12,82E    268,345   406,045e   598,E05   820,400 ),123,950 1,511,730   1,791,010 1,795,E00   1,794,DDE                                   Poids  total (kg)
Frics pot k(il  (E)                                  -88                            .8E         .8E         .aE        .88         .8E        .8E         .8E           .8E          .8)           .8E                  Pris pot kilo  (Z)
Dot-cta). (E>-                                                             10,26E    214,676   324,836   478,404   656,32E    899,160 1,209,38E    1.432.818 1,436,400   1,435,200                                       Entat paIticl (O>
oTa l rocher ni noinnai  (hd8                                                  40       410      1,14E       1,885       2,695      3,28E       i,335       5,830         7,170       2,328         7,265                     Nomber Otol 't nian
Total  iinscght (tEE                                                      12,200  124,15E   332,605   584,tS    796,i,05   970,h40 1,289,850 1,747,790   2,170,970 2,229,37E    2,211,62E                                     Pntdn vit tact1
local Donc (7)                                          8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,76E   99,E20   2666)86   478,288    837.124    776,318 1,031,880 1,398,230   1,738,78) 1,783,500   1,769,300                    Toont totat
C.  ETal nobt-  of -oi-1e p-chn-d                                   400              i,8EE     1,308       3,288"     4,775-      P,tDE       8,788     ET,:73D     17,2E5        18,328      2T, 783       23,843        i N at- totald ^d'a-io.....ochtsie
Enta) EEvsnoeEgtt (tons)                   ~~~~~~~1t8          289       385         8953     )305        ),916       728        3,1 72      4,63E         4,277       5,981         8.852                     Poid  vit totl   tnns
Total p"rctoo otsi (EDED                               23.6             289.8      298.2      825         928      1.S3L3.0   1a548.1   2.13E.1 ,JQl 8              3582  ...Z1                                           ot ctai dc t'aca   oRti   c   llred   ree
Erktr  cot         E/d.8E                                                     3.8       3.8         9.8       13.3        2) .3       25.0       35.2        371.6        .58.80       65.3           77.8                  mute  d'ochenioooaot do b-cil E2D.c0r0preBo2
Enta) cot nE catt1  p-than  EZO'8EE                      24.40                2t2.8     382.1      842.3       937.1   8.554.3  1.,573~.   2,15.3   3,3                    , 2   2,~j   3%,987      4 -A -9683                E/ut taido laohac du ba'tail   aalieadcfts
H/ gfOse   bav  tesIn  nddD  salen Ont aat alehoogt  sos    t abe   igtt t- ans   aclk potoneDo1 a-d ho oEitct                                          Dot g6in--sOa  c   rloedn  Teetveres pos  1bat8 tinqertind'sotteele    oisn
itth-  to sor  t-ailia..oal      - ace , s  ta -ct-  carbe .if daneloposat toRon plac.-           oorer, OthEecoio                                    'OtOftaO   oett                 iiitqo.nisee esit des teriers  t-ditis...ots, soit d'-tnere
_1oal  not aIttc  at al1ite rte~ ni ents of tht atot.in. For th  t - eding he-d anooa                    ineght  -d peSos Ras                         hcbe   ai le dineloppesent n'ieeo1Toooe    aiét dis                               iaiet  -1nn-  d- athats de
Rc-no_d,  ite force  te petahbly an  hveaie               rite tbe latteri .a anodseaatiuate aino  5canal    il) ba                                  btdtil, le tans de eetatbilitda  laarotnen                   -rii pas  ftioté.  Pon  lr bitait d'etavge, os
pocarfa  iCceon-r E pri-es.   a ith. ia-o   pojociEnos ..eat tas tcn  e.nId at a cingle peine bat  o p-tiee Et                                 esnae          -o  poids se dcc pria a iti nti1ieéfe   ta pesai re ce  probable ceai ar  eaat1a-r lt  80
ai7bo p            -odngrd  a-d chie  ill eeflot tho p-rta-  peler ni ete anial.            h   ocbeer e   ttat tho                               la deneilar rat  -n s... ai. tia,es  qoalq... b~ces                       -ho abtice  an pris do OeeégatDo I. D-r
pr)rtoscel   hsae   ara  esinr  baed  r  Eami inooaia end la rire ai ob  perotot-ging o-t                                                  1-porria   de sêseae,lavad       t8 nedeI  es    pria, nais  rtqeer    leer
a-dî priraiatn in RaIes th. tablo  hboold h. srg-eded as dfi.inig tbh nfoato  tbst bas to booonstt1tlY                                                vîi  daprEs. le qosîtUf o  cen   -flite-  Es pein d'rohat doc-i ailns.E  tant canlig-r  que Ers
brrr nodaisd  if th. ahttinoe  ar  ta  oca  etlEftoan...log.                                                                                         peni etinospefèerr8e  dore1- l'ason  sont des estisti..e  -od                n  In minimu  d'iaircti-r et, on ta
27  Avotage tethBig  -ote  fe-  tbe N-tt a-d (o-  tbo So-th of Denei.                                                                                     pef....  Start de  hborgoart do. s-ita et des pris sa Eues, te tablou   fratEtorntdr    o
a état qna'o-  irdiostias dec  -a-ieg-tmsa   qni d-toso  Dere ais à  aea   e   bta                        doiroat dar-ie
2/   is)St -ye.. aholonm   do bbtail ester les onesdaboiaet   do N-rd as dn Sd de tEtt-i.
Joly 23, 1976                                                                                                                                        le 23 )nillet 1878






n1m, IMET-IK   -01-                                                                                                                                        11f1-NT - i. 1 -ffl-  11-                                             Al- 6/TAB.
Y.- 1   1-       Y-  3   y... 4   y-, 1                                 6   Y.- 1   y-  d                       9             10   yÊa iI20
2 m3 r.-.-4
1,20.               3,295         3,395        3.500        3, Io                     3, M.                                   4,3-         "513            4,9                     I- -    a              - 1-             1.
h-a  -111.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
C- g-           1                                         2                    400          430          l5           5-0          550           .1.          8.1        i,o,         1, 340       1, 30a          1, a4.
1           2                                             2m                    30           320          140          350           360          370           4W           480          S?Q           660             740                                 2
3                                                                  W             120       i,320         1,940       15_ 00                      6.1i.        1S.5       10,240        12,485          ia, 3.                                 3.-
51 .-I                          400                  960          890        2,135        2,790        4,410         5,010        7,395        11,375       12. 150       14,445          18,6so                                           T.I.1  ,-i.1
-h -11,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1-I a.,
f-        bedi.e h-d                                           -                    40          165          210          580           640          480          525           7Io        1,18D        1,335           1,2B3                                    é'"i d.
5         935        i.401        j,22.        ,800        iBID          3090        5,I90         I.U5                                                   l""i d. -"e-
-                   40           410       1,145         1,935        2,6q5        3,-           4,511        5,63.         7, 1',,      7,32           7. 265                                           '-.1
T-1                         4.0               1 _.O'    j2_   3,281    47l5    7.1.5    8.290   11,110   17_201   19_1 2 0   21,115    11 9_45                                                                T.-I
3,600               jZ2          AÉn          6,780         S373       10,811       I2.I5        15,745       21,abO       23.6b.        26,280          30,640                      l11.Iif b-, d..
f              f., 1-1                                 25                   26            26           27           K            29                         li           3i            1           Il              31                     K-b-    d..
à 1.
T-a--l h-d   U.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d.               1-dill
3                         4            4            4             6            1             9           10            10              il
",,,'y                                                                                                3
2                                         1                                                            3                          3                          4            4                             6
I                                                    I
-                   2             1           10           15           27            3Q           4U            76           8D                           127
4                    l            l           Il            u            34           39            56           89            94          112             146                                            -1.1 1- -
5            1            4             4            6             9           10              1                                  .4-1 d. ---
h-d                                                                           1            7            il                        22          -20            4           41            41              41                                   il.il a
-                   1             4            9           16           2I            26           14            46             6           17              Il                                            '- i '-- i
T- I                          4                    8            il           26           3e           5            65           92          13,           150          169                                        T- I
_jL4         _L7_         _L3.                          4            5.         121           168           e4             4              40                                1-el d..
-LL    _L                  .L                                      L            1
.1,5               3,269        3"'q          "'3         3,572        3,681         3,83,,       '95        4.142         "c&         4,"ü            4,158
-ai 11-1
-                    -            446          411           46          546          824           878        l'o.1        l"'o          1,29           1,627
C- '-v 2                                             198                  292          318          331           41          35 7          367          '97          476           5            t5              734
-                 258          H9         1,310        1_925       34_ 73         3,78.        6,062         9,729       1_0MD         12,388          16,1'3                                          3
15,          88,        'Iie        "6s         4,316                      1,31,                     12,.51       14,333          18,534                                              T- 1 1- i.1
lial.il dI. -Il
hlle                                                           39          36           108          b/5          35           476          521            ,4        I,i,i        1,321           1,2-15                                              é-il .                            ... 1
b-d                                                            -       --              28        1,394       2_0 3 9        2   18       3 780         5 050        5 943         5,938           5,933                                                    I a"              a
39           %        1,136         1,969        2,674        3,254         4,301        5,784         7,ii4        7,63           7,208                                             T- 1 '- JL1
T- 1                        31                             1,2iie       1,214        1,737         1,050        B,22       11,63K        17,07,       19,170       21,56          I5,712                        T- 1
3,511               4'2'         4,65A        6,72,        A,339        in,731       12,055        15,622       21,212       23,476        26,.76          30,400
T-alliL .. I -a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a,
1;  y11d    4B7  (k1                                14'                  141          141           '4'          14'                        l'           1l            1'l          1'           1                                                 lèl-                              1,11, lkll
-^-           -Ig.   (kl)                    21,1W                5j5 i      .4        1.,Ile         ,94       ei,ffl       121,10       112,111    lel,.I    2., -                              147,1i0l                                                             a-   -- -
C,                                                                                     I'            1'          -                                       ,36           136          13,          13,           137             il,                               2-    -     - i. "Il,,,,,   e7 ,k el
-,-  2: li M 4n (k,)                                             -                                                            115          13,
-Ilh, (kg)                            "2                39,912      41.1I        41,411       41.141        1,115       1,1i2       11,1U         6I,11        71,141           lIl        1-    1e                                                    - a.
-                 III          I           jj          jI          II            ill          Ill           jI          I             JI
1    11.ld 4n    (le)                                                                                                              6                                                    le             e             'e                                                                 4e, lkll
""h' 'k')                                -              19,610       13,685    151,960    223,100    402,868    42,26Q    101,214 1,14l,.22                                1,411,784    1,908,414                                                         P-ia. a-   -- -             IkA
1-lh, -b- 1.1 (kg)                56,034              128,755    122,751    267,63    344,,49    532,963    615,712   ffl b24 1,37,4 1,478,582 1,741,599    2,256,276                                                                        T- I 1-1. 1 (p.id  i . . . .....   11K)
R-h -1U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l-il d- -h.
1-         b1-dI1 .d! - ld 52%  (k.)                        -                  159          159          113           160          lai          163           164          166           16,          1 11            16q
1- -           -ighl (kg)                            6"01       57,555        33.072       92,QQ-    102,231          77,588       b5,444    i2I,4    195,1,1    U1,925                  215,415
I-                 bd    ^ija 52%  (kg)                                          -          iiI         14e           15D          151          j^2           I5           I4           155          156              15a                                         3é- 1
...   . i        9                                   -      6,512    138,272    209,1-            307,881    422,256    518,340    ?71,700    921,165    926,328                     125,548
6,201      64,070    171,344    3-1, L-           410,i24   _09544    663,784    899.5   1,116,722 1,150,253    1141.023                                                                                                                 "g,
-i2h (kg)                           bb314              _13491    - .-            4I.,918    45,,49                   1,115,616                                             2                3,I9729                                                            al                 118
2,241                5,398        7,473       17,559       25,806       39,123        'G2        62,3B4        91,040    103,812    155,U4               135,892                                                     1- -    d.
T-1                    -Ilh' fkl)           13,793              i29,13    179.148    421,,I9    611,343    105,14 1,11l,99- I,47,224 ,iM,96e Z.411,4.   l74I,qm                                 1,11i,101                                                       I.-     -     -     -Il.....
h ... 1 1 -ga-                         1,600               4,000         5,2M        13,120       19,100        28,420       33,160        6,920       68,320       7,2S0        8"0,          103,78D                  3.            -., d-                 - -      j-,-     I/ f1g)
(ke)                                      Io                  600        1,04        2,624        3,320          ,684        a,,2        ,1.4         3,?64       15,456        17,4U           20,756                                        a- i.. e)
..d                                                  4-1   11.-                L5,28,   22,,36   'a'-                  ""u    '5'56   Ct,4                                                                              a.. I.I-  -- -
rk1
,ooo       9, li,      22,96 --      33:425       49,115       58,03a        11:I11    121:411'   111   4        1j11:1^1I    111:111                 4.
'W           91        Z,Zga           343         ,974        5'80                                                                8                                                       (g)
ihl 1                             -(19)  2 5_20                    6-1-                         20,664   30,082   L4 7_61   52,22    71,ffl   108,391  In.116   13"11   IM,493                                                           P.-
,kg)
5.  1- I -Ie, -1                                                             2".                               1,11,       Il 1e       le   5       41,11        1,71ù                    111,111    111,121          111,111        111   Il
'40                                                          p,6,      ,?63        M 74          1    8      0,323         11,112                                                                        L i-   ('e)
(k.)                   2                                                               76  _3 3   4 4_6 6  3_342  9 2_9 0  104_328  11_531  4 _.1 . 3                                                           P.id.              --i- (1,')
lil4
43                                                     a
b-    f          1-11 f-    -                      38                  950        1,235        3,-           4,11a        ,7I1        7. 71        11,1         le.3 5        18,114         2l P7         14   18                                                                             j
18, 1976                                                                                                                                                                              18 f- .-   197b






CADRE
ETURI LIEPETOCK DOEVEIOPMREND PEOJECT                                                                                  EJTD   EROPIDTD   EEAEE   IE
RONIEA ABATTODB                                                                                                              ABATTODR DE BONDA
Befnre Proien  le-  R    Yer 2    Y-e  3    Yen  4    leur 5    leu  b    len  7    Y-n  O    leu  9    len   1D   leu-  11-20
A-en  De Projet   X44VDé L1           X2   Ane3   Ané6 ué                       né         ué  7   Aoe  R   AEuE9              us70  AnéeE-2D
z. PEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.  PORCS
i.  ENte  nI  nu.inn1n  Ont Ennu  noîuio,311                                       2 571      2,510       2,500      2,500       1,171      QDDDO       2,500      2,510       2,100       2,500        2,500              i.  NBouin dn,lanuatns   pou  1s. nnniinRnD2
Nueben oC -ninuD   Roc  uPnItî L  Kînuhuen                    200             i_ODE       1,300      129   2,700 2,10       2E0         3,200      3.8_00      4_400      5,100       9~~s9Q        IODE                   Nombea d' aninun ubenuno Pont  Vepouei    te  Kinabas.
Total                         2,500             3,500       3,800      4,200       4,600       1,200      5,700       6,300      6,9D0       7,60D      8,300         R,30D                              ToreR
Condennenbons  ni  eroneuru Pur  Ennui ...unpli,îon    12                 13         E)          13         13          13         13          13          13         13          13            13                 Noulte dus -tat....s     . sisies  panse  _eNe-  leuas
Cod fein   nEnetub     u  .uprlt Do Kîiohe.u            i                 5           7          9         Li          14          Et         20          23         27          3-0           30                  Noubre des IL... .atase   sisiesp.e.eie   eoe
13                10          20         22          24         27          30         33          30         40          43             3                              nTai1
Net ;,nn,bor nEîrnausus  Con ioa? îonnnopîînn 2,200            2,487       2,487      2,407       2,40'      0,407       2,407      2,407       2,407      2,407       2,407         2,402                  tffuniEun  dru ebeuuage  pou  7.nnsaRnRue
Nei  -unîu n  turuee fCn  expuet un Kinohsîn                  199               991       L4294      1,691       2_089      2,686       3,13,4     4,78O       5,37,      5.073       5,770         5.770                  EftOutuEeu  dus ubt-Rr  potD--uuRunt  Kiueas
Esi  hluonglpur                              2,407             3,482       3,700      4,iE8       4,574      5,173       5,070       0,267      6,064       7,500      0,257         RI257                              EfR-tif est des absttages
2.  Meut pruduntion PursOor  g-ouu ueIght ofl I                                                                                                                                                                            2.  Peodontîun. du oluupon  1eup-teuei-  Kers .fh...u
.....ne   (kg)             10,348             51.740    67_236    87,932  1i8_628   139.672   16,5_51    I965,5O   227,004   263_706    300_0450                   300.040                              Pn-du brnudsssesse (kg)
F  ele      use-207                                                           1,035       1,345      1,759       2,173      2,793       3,370       3,037      4,552       3,270      6,000         6,000                   2etud   ooo/ie
Nue  -iîghi nE  1uu0sr                                     2,141.            50.705      65.097     86,13,4    106.455   130.079   162,206   192,629   223,052   258.520   294.04D                294oudu0   et d..s.uen....u
5.   lut veegle  nE rro.otrenee~~~~~~~~~~1  tnn             0779       7,0792 6Q   340   4      ,705         l        I4nO4       MQQ0      41494      I21420     44l4,,         711440              3.  Poids  e  d-snntn    ER
4.   Net -.ughi ,oO et' uEEninU'0                                   190             3BDOJJ,94 71444414 40D00                                    600    11,400    11,20E        75.300      17,400        17,400              4   Poids nue des  _luee   oges-4 kg
C. BY-PRODUCTR                                                                                                                                                                                                            C.  SOUS-PRODUITS
1.   Bin-d  -lsD,                                                                                                                                                                                                            R.  Patin  de  ag.
CuiDie   (kg)                             ~~~~~~             ~~~~~~     ~~~~5,400  6,443  7,047  70,770  72,363  16,223  10,225   23,010     32.070      31,490     30,420        45,960                      Duu.g du beenf (bol
Pige  (ku>                                              1t250               7.750       7.000      2,104       2.300     2_6004       2.850      3,150      _ 3,450     3_800       4.150         4,150                       ag.de 1por-   (kg)
T.usD (kg>                   6,650             8,193       0,943     12,270      14,063    10,023       27,075    26,760       33,570    39,200       43,570        57,7DB                         Tru
2.   Hnnfs u-d hue- neuiX4)                                     25,200             37.065     32.065      47.460    50.625    437           0.5        4110_25    149_660   946,526       0300          274.480             2.  Patine de nuuse   du saboro (Ru>
3.   loué  cul                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.  tuiudetiade
Coudeed  .tueri   <stue   kg>                            3,915              4,590      4,095       7,155       0,910     11,340      12,025     16OO05    22,680    24,840         27,540        32,400                       etse   do boeu.fs salaDes
loai 16kg>
-beu,len-u,t .ge   (6g)                      2,560             2,026       7,076      2,8000      2,800       2;960      3,380       3,212      0,340       3,472      3,612         3,756                         Foies,. n.enes   Dge(kg>
tupes, inugu,  pl....s(kg)                           2,240             7,560       2,377      2,460       2,520      2,597       2,702       2,077      2,903       3,030      3,1OD         3,207                          Cnîpon,  Pnn n,  rlu(kg)
(neEie    kg>                                  1,920               ,097 7    L2,03       2_44        2.160      4,260      2,316       2           0.2505     2 6_04      2,709         2,077                         Onl,teLin.  (kg>
n-tal(kg)                  6,720              6.707      7,130       7,350       7,560      0,025       0,706      6,432       0,760      9,114       9,402         9,806                            Tntu1 peruti1
C     fdfndnEusud.euess îur   tutIe.                 804             2_100       4,74        e,888    10,020       14_021    1D,409    24_44         _43I14      40_172      45,707        54.485                     Abutousîsîs  desanre  boninsautn (kg)
Totul nondeunnd uf.lei  ~kgi                          7,560             8,281       9,860      14,238    17,588    24,746        25,515      05,065    44,899       49,686      55.109        64,345                           tide totsi desubsea  .oi.be  (ku>
Coodroud pig  aenn   (kg,                                   676               036       1,040      1,D40       7,240      7,404       1,560      1, 7D6      1,072      2,080       2,236         2,236                            Onenu...en de pors  ulte   (kg)
T.ut .st angtlt (koS              7,                12,151            13,8077    01,092       22,1537    27,747     37.490      39,977    517,306    59,457        76,606     b4,965        90,907                            Potée ltnt cousE   >kgR17
Tuei1 de_  nnît&nn  noïkg                            3,701             7.412       3.974      L777        6.53'       41444      9,975    7124478447 17.63          19,15      271241       24,745                            to,du  -r  roua  (=-uln  do ols_der7(k0>
4.   TaD1ou  (10>"-                                                 911             41,(34     1_ 792      E 792        _q 10        8124     2,993       3,854      53094       5,746      6,372         7_424              4.  lotO   kgt
2'  Coduntnotî)7 1,(974-71 ,                o. N  ulounî _ide Coi n duc1ln  nu-I  nonunt îln                   haî  ont  shunt na      n   tu   b                     ettipdb,o'nu                            t   :
3/  Cursa-uy-lidg  40? nI 1îrunigh 1 fut tond,tintai oçhni nat En  IF-ni- tuon,inil-
4!  4 ko/nuinni; totéenunîion  ente  271.                                                                              4   OrtIe' de ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttét1tnitt  ~~~~ 2: punît lut Pr-udtonuons.ii
47 E 6g/uninul, noudennotint unît- 002..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   _litl- I
kgCodeuuIotI ene   1 _2kgettt;rinî  otîotun, 
2/   unue  I  iguostunuéfro  terut e5fonnt                                                                                                               '77   4g/Ntuu1; Ovnde nndîutrtno               1
75 2DD  g!nnn;5  g!n                                                                                                                                    T3   t Cg/pnttoj
77/  27 kg/poin.                                                                                                                                                 P/ 1d9 /-fttt- 52kg
14!  303  Edm k    eîglp g7/b ti"  -W,It  . 
l5'  31r di p-du  ntbrt
Feunryî, 1976                                                                                                                                             lu 16 fMniu  1926



2AIRE
TTTOT ITVESTOCK ODEVELOPHENT PROJEET                                                        PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEtT DE L'ELEVAGE EN IRUTRI
Buaia Abattoir                                                                                 Abattoir Do B&ni-
Labor Pro-erti.n.                                                                         Prolectiose De Main DOeuvro
(Mae-yerar)                                                                                        (Bonnue -années>
YTar I          Ysar 2        Ysar 3        Year 4        YTar 5         YTar 6        Ynar 7        YTar 8        YTar 9        YTar 10        YTars 11-20
Anebe 1         X;1;S         Année 3       Anée4         Année 5        Aé6           Lnéi 7          nnfe E      Aanée 9        Année il       Ansécmfl-20
Ad.inistration Staff                                                                                                                                                                                                Personnel adeinistratif
Manager                                       I               1             i             i              i             i             i             1             1             1                 I                  Directeur
Annauntnat                                    I.              T             1             I             I              1             I             I             I             I                 I                  Comptable/naissier
Clerkr/typist                                 2               2             2             2             4              4             5             5             6             6                 7                  %aployé de. Breau/dnctyls
Slaaehreri.us.                                                                                                                                                                                                     Abattoir
Suparisteadant                                I               I             I             1             I              1             I             I             I             I                 1                  Sur-eiliaet
Chief engineer                                I               I             I             1             1              1             I             1             I              I                I                  Ingenieur e chef
Cstrie/pig pans                               2               2             3             3             5              5             5             6             7             7                 8                  Ban x  bovies/pase
Sla.ghtsr/drs.sfng flans                   13               14            16            17            20             21            23            29            32            35                39                  Aire ds.battaas/da depouillsmast
OffaI nlen.ing                                2               2             3             3             S              S             7             8             9            10                il                  Nettayaga   viscarea
By-products                                   2               2             2             2             3              3             3             3             4             4                 4                  Das-praduits
Hidas                                         2               2             2             4             5              5             7             8             8             10               12                  Pe-as
HangieR hall/packing/d,apntrh                 2               2             2             3             5              5             6             9             9.           10                12                  Hait de suapensfon/embelîage/anpdition
Chill rensae/bniîer                           4               4             4             4             4              4             4             4             4             4                 4                  Chsabrea froides/chaudife
Etectrn..an/rnfrigeratraa                     2               2             2             2             2              2             2             2             2             2                 2                  ElEctritien/réfrigrsfati-
Mebhanic                                      4               4             4             4             4              4             4             4             4              4                4                  Mcaneicten
Drivers                                       4               4             4             4             4              4             4             4             4             4                 4                  Chauffeurs
G-ards                                        4               4             4             4             4              4             4             4             4             4                 4                  Gardes
Lauedry/A.esitiee                             2               2             2             2             2              2             2             3             3              3                3                  Bu néerîe/vetires
Cle.er./labarara                             3               4             5             5              6             7             8             9            10             il               13                  Nettoyeurs/ouvriers
Storekeeper                                   I               1             I             1             1              1             I             1             I              i                t                  Maasieiar
Livestock boyer                               1               I             I             I              1             1             1             1              1             1                t                  Acheteur de  bêtail
Total                                54              56            61             65            79            81            90           103            112           120              133                        Total
Febr-ary If, 1976
le 18 fvir1976



ZAIRE
AbEEX/AbNNEXE 6
IT5EI L7VESTO E D4 ELCEMRff EROECT                                          PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEEf DE LBL'EVACE EN 1I/oRo
Botta Abattoir                                                              Abattoir do Banjo
Profit anT L as Staterent                                                     ooupts de Profits et Pertas
(en uIllier  de -trt-)
-i----_-  -- _ _ __ _ _- -- -- -- ---- -- ---- ------- -- --- -- ---- _ -----  - -- -- -- -- ---- --- -- ------- --- - -  .-/ n- -------- -- ----  --- - -- ----- ---- - ---- -- -- -- ---  -- ---- ---- - - --- ------ - --- - ------- --   ------ --   -- -- - -- - - --- -- -
1         2          t         4          S          6         7          8         9        10         il          12          13          14          15          16         17          19          19          2C
A-  1TC-1,E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A. 2.Toia
Abattoir Yeas                      23.41     23,90       24.4     ,4.88      2S5.42     26.13     P6.77      27.64    20.43      29.20     30.i5       3C.13       30.13       30.13       30.13      30.15       30.11      35   13      30.13         315               Redeoaas  d'Abatttir
TGales                           '372.36    630.5e      039.66 î,O.oO   1,6R4.22  1,950.235  2,95.64+  5,831.37 4,3g6.84  4.811.30  5,619.92 95649.53  3,640.5    5, 45.î3   5.649.55    5.648.5 5 0,4s.E9                  , Ct43.5n   ,64d.sn    5,649.5U               Ventes
Mlsos11aosoua~ U-                              -           -         -         .d9      5R6         -          -         .89      sOi         -          -           .89         -           -          16           .9         -                                         Divers  /
Total                            295.75    454.46       963.06 1,209.56  1,710.55 ;, 0.2    ,722.041  3,859.01 4,386.16  4. 44.44  s,678_. 63            .63   5,679.52   5,675. <53   .67.,v3   5,642.4q   5,679.52   5,679.52   5,67,.A52    § _67IlS                   ToIo
i.  EXPBTSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O.  DEP-E5SE
Salants ana socaaA Be-efi-î    35.91         91.76       33.02    35.40      41.58     42.44      46.24     51.54    55.88       06.97      4.,4       64.14       64.14       64.i4      64.14       64.14       64.14       64.14       64.14        t'4.14             tnalr tvm g   Sn
Ootributîn  to tho osa  of ONDE  4.65         .6  4.65            0.6s9 4.6s      4.6,   .5       i.o        o 4.65 4..6.4                             0.sos 4.6s                          .0 4.64 4.63 4.6: 4.65                                       06:Aporan  tai  d  1012
Otier   eeaRti z E opesoas      50  .6   466.17        955.32   1017961,603.493î,3926l    2,126.51631529.129,07003 23522 11  3,52îi 2 4,074i 43 4,48761   2,io6.o9   2,109.11   5.129    0,1405    5,116.09   5,1u9.14   5,109.14    5.121.2S 13                                 Pr ol  do P6n4t4nn4 46no
Sotersat cn borrcxed f p05       342.26    11.53         s4.cs    16.s6      16.65     16.65      11.11       5.56      -          _         -           -           -           -                      -           - _         _                        - _tltùtaar Pomdo R 4000505
-o                               54.n015.01,210.                          1,05.9315.99,l 514.11  887.89 1,21.64  1,676337  1,959d9  2,588. ,5 3,590.87 4,134.56  4,55C.0   5,2C7.13   5,180.45   2,l94f    5,178. 9    ,8.34   2.209.56   3,184.07   :29.5  ,1.2  2,19.05  Total Partiel
Deprerttion o-f Fi-o  AsRets      13.13      32.81       52.81    52.01      32.R1     32.01      32.91     32.d1    52.5l       52.81     32.91      39.81        32.91       32.81      32.81       32.81       32.91       52.81       32.91        32.95             dAmroisoonnot don OPonoitiinr
Depreciati-o of Vehiolea           9.94       9.94        9.94     9.94       9.94      9,94       9.94       9.94     9.94       9.94       0.94       9.94        9.94        9.94       9.94        9.94        9.94        9.94        9914         9.94              Amortisret dus VOhil-lea
Sub-Tots1                         '3.57         42.5    5 42.        75      42.70     42.755     42.55     42.75    42.72       42.12     42.95       42.72       42.5       42.75       42.75       42.75       42.75       42.'5       S2.75        40.7S              rotal PartiaL
Total                            371.08   5sso66        9 9050 5 1,261.3?  1.719. 2  1,992.70  2,630.90  3,633.62 4,177.91  4.593.34  S,249.98   5,223.18 59227.6             204    5,230.59  5,252.11   3,227.62             E,22.50   S,22C.95     '52 .92             Total
Prfit (Loss)                     (o7.53)  (o.4O)    (66.69)  (S1..39    (8.59)    lS.54           91.51      25.'    208.95    25l.1      423.75      055.45    4Oî.r         457.69     448.U4      430.35      451.y.      4S4.57      08.57        445.41              oDoiîce (Porte)
CTNulltite profit (Lota)           12.35)  (157.75)   (244.42) (296.20S  (514.94)  (299.30)  (197.79)   (27.69)  181.2'   432.3'    961.10    ,16.s5   1,i7,64.45   2,226.13   2.674.17   3,1n4.ss   î,s56.4s   4,01F.0P   4,4B3.-9 4,919.4                               Bétfites  Poertos> tpolat:if
Sopttobsr :4, w76 1o 1   28 sptembt  10276






t.                                                                                  I            I
r                                 r,.flr                                         I
h                                                                                              5
r r,,, r  
r,.-.   r..                           rrr.r,,.                       ,.,rrr.rr.,                           r, r,.                  ,r  r r
V.  k                g  CL   k         E                                                                     V
r                                                             22g2g,.sgg-2g.22;gcg;g
j                                  jr
il         I                  i                                                                                          ]
I   I            I                      c'                                                                                              2
2                          I         ;g,,r.g::       r: y                              ''1 ''
2         22  2rrr ,tj 22' Z'                               I
t2                      :U.h -                   .        k
<'rr ,
.2
2,
''2
F            2
9-,. -'s






- -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - Z-- - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
àT9747.        0479777797le7049  7000L77179I0I.L01  5   77
70E7707761.17                                                    29707,70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ do2 , - g77
0E7777177 70767                                                              0,05E 077-7-6-0o3777E47
______ 2_   1        7  -                o,        7                  7        E                  6       0-
0076777777007767 pot.. 7t70 -   07061t2]            9,610         0.600    0.770    o. 6t2    1,707    0,. 97    7,147      7.740,90 Il.6077-7773,772I  32 2.21    .1
.067    0 660 60,60    01,6767,6707.0704.6064,2              6630,7            ,28
3, 79  7tttO7007O77                                      777~~~~~~~L_     LLn   ~ l  IEE277  12 Il_.E7.Il7
0479774.7707-I                                                                                                                                                                  17  16070997~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J-5 L  -
00.79 711                 oo                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    0. 71  1 66    69  9 64     7            710 41           "..       *7      t7         *                  FF
7E77  770               6 7 0 7 0 7 2                       .77        67       000009190143770077                                                 E.79779177779E,176719t0707~~~In  I-l1  L'n 
5977  07107777 .77.0  9..~~~            60                         o'.      1.69067190400                         4.06      770       .66      7.10      6,6       6.77-     117                07oMI  17,7727 77477
2, 111, 1 ~  ~       ~       ~       07                                  9       07       .7        30         .7       00        05         3        .0        .6       7.77E7tt7  7.719,   992
761  .67 0,7  .77   7.77      721      77.0       7.0012                                      t,.U777






ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                        PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
tisonnent  Abattoir                                                                              Abattoir de Ki-sg-ais
Onerutoni Revenues                                                                               Revenus d'Eoplotaotion
(Z   000)                                                                                    Cee  =illier  de  st tes'
A-uote Prne-t         1        2         3         4         s         6         7        8         9        10       11-27
Nunber of aslsxlr Pr.eesed-/-  Csttle                                                2,610          2,690    2,770    2,850    2,930    3,120    3,245    3,375    3,510  32650    3,790    3,950    Nopbre d'on-aoa  abrttsol  -novice
-Pige                                             14,000          14,700   05,430   16,200   07,000   17,860   08,760   09,700   20,680   21,720   22,800   23,940-Pon
-  Sheep & g-ots                                     6,500          6.760    7,030    7,310    7,600    7,910    8,220    8,550    8,890    9;250    9.620   10,000                                             - Mostoeenht hvros
(A)  Uses                                                                                                                                                                                                        (A)  Charsea
holding grousda/alaughter pe-            h-ead                                                                                                                                                                  ESoies et boxes d'abattage
nttls                                _                   .15                              .40      .42       .43       .44       .47       .49       .51        .53      .55      .57       .59                   3pvias
Pigse                                                    ..0                             1.47     1.54      1.62      1.70      1.79      1.89      1.97       2.07    2.17      2.28      2.39                   Porno
Sheep end goote                      -                   .25                              .34      .35       .37       .38       .40       .41      .43         .44     .46       .48        .50                  Moutoas et  shèies
Snb-totel                                                                            2.21      2.31      2.42      2.02      2.66     2.79      2.91       3.04    3.18       3.23      3 66                     T7ta1 pantis1
Abattoir S.r-..e/                                                                                                                                                                                                Taxes d'abattage/
Cottle                              he-d                4.80                           12.91    13.30      13.68    14.06    14.98    15.58    16.20    16.85    17.52    18.19           18.96                    Bovine
Pig.                                 -                  3.00                           44.10    46,31    48.60    51.00    53.38    36.28    39.10    62.04    65.16    68.40             71.82                    Porn-
Sheep and gontn                      -                  1.00                             6,76     7.03      7.31      7.60      7.91      8.22      8.55      8.89     9.25      9.62    10.00                    M-otos ot rhèsvres
Oob-toto1                                                                          63.77    66. 64      9.359    72f6      76,47    93.08 813.85         7Z6i  591193    9621   100.78                          Tetal parsiel
Meot drlivteryeerv                                                                                                                                                                                                S- Servins de lieraiso.  de ni-sde
Consr.nteie                   hond                 .45                            0.21      1.251   2.2         1.312     1.40      1.46      1.52      1.38      1.64     1.31      1.79                    Cernasses de bonios
" Page                            -                   .35                            5.15      5.40      5.67      5L95      6 25      6.57     6.90      7.24      7.60      7.98      8.38                               P-ere
Sheep oed gonts           -                   .15                            1.01      1.05      1.10      1.14      1.19      1.23      1.28      1.33      1.39      1.44      1.98                        '     Metnoas ot shivres
Seb-total                                                                          7.37      7.70      6.05      8.41     8.84      9.26      9.70    10.15    10.63    11.13    11.86                         Torts  partiel
Tienera -rcattle                         heod                 .20                              .54       .55       .57       .59       .62      .65       .68       .70       .73       .76       .79             ViOseres de bovins
pigs                           -                   .10                             1.47      1.54      1.62      1.70     1.79      1.88      1.97      2.07      2.17      2.28      2.39                e    - Penne
Sheep and guets                _                   .05                              .34       .35       .37       .38       .40      .41       .43       .44       .46       .48       .50                '    - Montooo et  his.vr.
Snb-total                                                                          2.35      2.44      2 56      2,67     2.81      2.94      3-18      3,21      3.36      3.52      3.68                      Tontl partiil
SOb-toiat  (A)                                                                    75.70    79.09    82,62    86,26    90.78    95.07    99.64   104.18   109.10   114.09   119.80                               Total partiel (A)
(0)   oles-                                                                                                                                                                                                       (B)  Veetes
Ondes,  -uspena.on dr-ed                 on.                 4.15                            11.16    11.50    11.83    12.16    12.95    13.47    14.01    14.57    15.15    15.73    16.39                      Prose  dr bn-i..s.n.hé.e par supsasion
Skae., o..presios dried                  vo.                 1.65                            11.15     11.60    12.06    12.54    13.05    13.56    14.11         14.67    15.26    15.87       16.50             Psea-  de nheyrea, séehées pan *sopeosion
SBb-tonal  (B)                                                                    22.31    23.10    23.89    24.70    26.00    27.05    28.12    29.24    30.41    31.60    32.89                               Total partiel (B)
Total op-1atang revenues (A) +(B)                                                 98.01   102.19    106.51   110.96   116.78   122.1û   127.76   133.42   139.51   145.69   152.69                      TeEs1  Re-eno. 4eSPloititio          (A) + (B)
Totol  oporating epen-s.                                                          75,52    79.01    82.19    85.61    87.83    97.81   110.53    96,93   100.06   104.26   114.35                       Tots1  Re.esus dERploitttisn
Morgue, operolneg revenues over tests                                              22.49    23.18    74.32    25.35    28 95         429      17.23    36.49    39.45    41.43        38.34             Marge bé34 34nisi4e,  r encens d'esploitstioos aédset
1/  CattlE: sas A.n.e 2, Tabls 2; piga, shorp and goote bbe-d on eloughtsr figures  together -toth  tperatens  ai ontsida s1aubhtnr                -/ Bovms: coin Annexe 2, Tableau 2, ponna, moutons etnh'eres  baeC  sur les ieleea
2 lobe.  Throughpnt i-.n.r.sd annully; pige 5%, shbsp and goats 4%                                                                        d-c obttntges pont 1974 y ccyapris le  abattoges effe-t-es nue onros d-baittn   se dehors d
2/  Poseeover neepansation egoinor noedeoo,steone of nannasase.                                                                                        I'abattotr.  tee ubottrges ong..nterotene ou  touo annuel do 37. poor les pores  47
3/  Besod on pri-s obtaleed for gond quoeity hbdea sa-Kien oud n  dienossnon unEtl Ktnnhuouvteners,                                                    peut les c-onn et les chèvres. ..
2/  Lt tanes d'abattoges conprennent l'essurancnucotre la nondaenataoa desnornasses.
3/  beds sur les prie obtar pour les poauo du Kien de benne qpsIité ce eue les ostreelene                              v 8
le 24 Jui  1976
Junes 24, 1976



LA IRE
ITORIR  L100ST41  OEVUORMONT PROJOI                                                               PROJET DE DEVELOPPENOENT DE 1.'EIRVAGR EN ITURI
Proft~ ond toc P..     vtb                                                                           Compt -    de -rfita  etPa-  e
Avant lePtojet    1        2          3         4          5        6         7        O         N       10        il        12         13         14        15        16         17        10         19          20
4  NCORE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A.  RVNU
ARattrbr Oe...                                     75 70  79-00        92 6 2     OR 26     90.70  95 07       99 64 104 16   109 10 116.09   119.00    119 80   119.00   119.00  119.00   119.80    119.806   119.00    119.00    119.00                          Redeocsd'btti
Delta                                              22 31  23.10        23.09      24 70     26.00  27 03       20.1    20.24      30.'41  31 60      32.09      32 O9    31 ON       32.09    32.09      32.09      32.09      32.09      32.09     32.09          Jete1
OtOltelîaoieaos-         -         -         -          -          -       -        ~~~~~     ~~        ~~      ~~         ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~2.31  - -    2.57       -   -                   2.5 7       -          -          -           Divans..
Total                                        980 O  102 19      100.21    110 q6   116 78 122.10    130 33 133 42   139 Ni 165.69    152.09    055 26   152 69   053 69   E52 6N   132.69    155.26    152.99    152.09    I5~6                              Total
N. DEPONSRS
R EXPENOII
Nalatia.  and social Ounetita        ~~26 30  20 O6       20.35      29 99      20.99  31.40      31.03  32.00   33.33         33.20  30.321       30 321    3.0        36.31    36.30      36.321   36 331        30.321  30.31       36.31          Eaatstvaafe aolo
Cantnibottot ta ton roat of cent  2.32    2,32       ~2.32     2I232          2    2l  2 Il   2 32       2  2             2 3    232             3       232        2 32        32      2.30       232         2 32     2.32       2 32          Appott -  ftuo iOc   de RONTIR
Oth-  o           .....ne .p.a.                   46.8~3  69.03        5152      1230       55 52  57 59       59.66  91.93   64.21        66.74  69.29        69.29      65.29)    69.29    69.29       69.20      69 29       69.29    ON 29      69.29          Autre  dip.n... de Poeoiî.e.e.e..t
Duo-Total                                        05.07   79 DI        82_ 10    00.561     87 83  91.30       93.01  96 93  10006~   104 26 1E7 92           107 92   107 92   107 92  100 92   107 92   100.92              107.92  107 92   100092                Total peotial
fe îte  RiecE... eate!<                    9.40   15.52        15.52     15.52      15 52  15.52       15 52  15.52   15 50        15.52  15 52        15.52      15.52      15.52    13.52      15 32      15.52       15 92    15.52      15.52         Aaortiaaaooet de. 2eebili6atiooe~
Dene feo  a4vboe                             .20    4.29        4 29       4 29      4.29   4 29        4.29   6.29    4.29          4 20   4.29         4 29       4 29      6.20      4.29       6.20      1.20        6.20      A 20       4.20         Ata-ti-aae   deaVORoa
Total                                       06.27  98.01S    102.02    115.42   107 64 il! 19   013.02 116.74  119.87    124 DO 127.03                  120 73   122.73   0272.33  023  23   122.35    122 73    327.75   127.73    127 73Toa
fnoRie (loaa)                                     11.16    3.38         4 51      S 54       9.16  10 91       16 71  16 68   19.64        21 62  24.96         22 53     24.96      24.96    24.96      24.90      27.53       24 96   24.96       24 96          Pnofft<ene
Ç~ta.ultve pnoftt (loua)                          Il 34  15 12         19.63     25 127    34.31  45.22        61 93  70.61    90.25    119.00 144.03          122.36    190 32   222.28  247.24    272.20   299.73    5324.69  349 65   374.61                    rnaftt(ae)onliEv>
c4~%p.   fan boildina  ve  25 yoans; 5% p of0c  Plant .od etlpent avn19 Tacts,                                                            I-aîueeadue11a  dea oohiruîac
Juc  28, 1970                                                                                                                                 le 28 7u-  1976



ZAI0E
ITOIRI LIVOSTOCE D81WI~OE8NT PROJOCT                                                                                  PROJET DE DESELOPPIEMONT DE L'CLOVACC EN IT005
AMantors - Cash Flue                                                                                                       Abattoirs-Cash pions
(2I 000)                                                                                                             (a    ilesde  srs
1          2          3          i          S                     7          8          9          10           il          12         13          14           15           16          17           1            82
BUN1A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BIINIA
OutO a,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        otied  fonds
Onveotosant -        233.54   177.45        -          -          -          -          -          -          -            -           -          -           -            -           -            --                       -           -            -    Oavotisso,sst-
Operstiog Casts             392.625  502.58    873.79   1,199.85  1,643.40  1,913.31  2,577.04  3,583.06  4,127.89  4,560.23  5,178.20  5,178.20   5,178.20    5,178.20   5,178.20   5,176.20    5,178.20   5,178.20   5,178.20  5.178.20  CaSte de  ratoeua
Ropîooanot                     -        -          -           2.23      16.32      26.93      -            2.23       6.67       9.64      28.93       2.23        6.67          -           9.64       31.16          6.67        -           -          n.9870aaoe1.ete    hcus
Long-taon Lassa.              5.39    11h53       14.01       16.56      16.65      59.39       59.39      59*39      -           -           -          -            -           -           -             -          -            -            -           -    Foots 6 longten
Total                   581-55   691.56    09Li80   1.21864  L..76L37  2,002&6   2.636.43  3,644,70  4345   4,15o.19  5,707.13  5,100.47   î.li94.87                      5,178.20   .5087.84   5.209.36    5, lJ9.8ff    5,178.20   5,170.231  5,190. 07  Tatsi
latin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Entrée dot fonds
Davolojpsot GC.sat         233.54   177.45         -          -          -          -          -         -           -            -           -          -           -            -           -             -          -            -           -            -    IDAnoGsvrasut
Rsvaao  tao  aaîoo          295.75   454.46    863.86   1.209.56  1,709.64  2.006.38  2.717.5  3,959.01  4,385.27  4,840.50  5,678.63  5,678.63   5,678.65                   5,678.63   5,678.63   5,678.63    5,679.63   5.676.63   5,678.65  5,679.63  Ventes et charges
Long-taon Lo.n..             52.26    59.65       23.94        9.08      -          -           -        -            -           --                     -----                                                         ----                                       paSo à long ceeu  2/
Tata1                   581.55   691.56    88t80   1.218.64  1.709.64  2.024.38  2.717.95  3.859,01  4,385.27  4&840589  5,678.63  51678.63   5.676.63    5.678.63   5.678.63   5.678.63                        567!.63   5.678.63   5.678.63  5.678.63  Total
.-sl  opl../               -        -          -          -          33.27       1.75       81.52    214.31    750.71    209.99    47i.10    498.20           493.70       500.43       490.r9      469.27        4.97.76     5o0.43      100.43    48.îE  OSepîso (défiOtlt)
(doffoit)
C,ossîtov   aorploo/           -                   -          -          33.27      35.02    116.54    330.85    581.56    791.55  1a263±05  1,761,25   29,2501    2.755.44   3246&~.23   3,715.5                  4   _209.26   4S709A6    56210.12  5,698.68
(def toit)-                                                                                       ___
Sotlf,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SrI  do fond.
1/             10.2/83
oporsllsg Caats              75.52    79.02       82.19       85.61      07.83      93.32      93.68      96.93    106.06    104.26    107.92    107.92           107.92        107.92      107.92      107.92        107.92      107.92       107.93     107.92  Colts do  onoeaao
noplansust                     -        -          -          -          -           6.43      16.72    -             -           -          6.43      16.72          --                      -            6.43        16.72        -            -           -    Reovleeedosvhi.e
TaUla                   181.74   137.39       82.18        85.61      07.83      97.81    110.53       96.93    100.06    184.26       114.35    124.64        107.92       107.92       107.92      114.35       124.86       107.92      107.92    107.92  Toto1
50610V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Entrée do fonds
Dovalap,set iront           106.22    58.38        -          -          -         -             -       -            -           -           -          -           -            -           -             -          -            -            -           -    1Aioennn
R-voso. f-o  sales &         98.01   102.19    106.51        110.96    116.70    122.10    127.76    133.42    139.51    145.69    152.69    152.82               152.92        152.92      152.92      152.92        152.92      152.92       152.92    152.92  Ventssstahatgas
Ta~li                   204.32   160.57    106.51         110.96    116.78    122.10       127.76    133.42    139.51    145.69        152.69    152.92        152.92       152.92       152.92      152.92       152.92       152.92      152.92    152.92  Total
Anasl Saaplos/(daflole)  22.49    23.80           24.32       25.35      28.95      24.29       17.23      36.49      39.45      41.43      38.54      28.05       44.77         44.77       44.77        38.57        20.28       44.77        44.77      44.77  Ssrplas (dëifat>
CslateSarplaa/         22.49    46.29       70.61       95.96    124.91    149.20       166.43    202.92    242.37    283.90    322.14    350.19    394.96                619.73      464.50      523.07        551.75      596.12       640.89    681.66          aae
2/  Po,a  oossrala  loka,  ith 11.5% P... latorast rae                                                                                                                                                   /  e  B.nqots Ca,usrisloaaato    n  d'lnt6rît do 11.5% ps..
Soptaohsr 27. 1976                                                                                                                                                                                           Le 27 spere1974






ANNEX 6
Diagram  1
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BUNIA ABATTOIR
BEFORE ALTERATIONS                                         AFTER ALTERATIONS
OVERHEAD ROUND BAR RUNWAY                                 OVERHEAD ROUND BAR RUNWAY _/
STAINLESS
STEEL PAUNCH
DROPPING TABLE
INSPECTION
SECTION
CORRI DOR
TO OFFICES
CONCRETE
HIDE FLESHING
WASH HAND                           TABLE
FOUNTAIN
OFFAL CLEANING ROOM                                        OFFAL CLEANING ROOM
CONCRETE SLAB
RAISED 10 CM
FOR WASHING
HIDES
TOI LETS Z=ID
CHUTE
(NOT TO SCALE)                                            (NOT TO SCALE)
WVorId Bank-15381






ANNEX 6
Diagram 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BUNIA ABATTOIR
ADDITION TO MAIN BUILDING
CATTLE RACE
ll
Il
EXISTING   I
:3UILDING
NEW PIG SLAUGHTER & DRESSING BUILDING
ll~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  a--t?sP -
I          DEHAIRING         l
OVERHEAD ROUND BAR RUNWAY !          TABLE
GAMBRELLING        SCALPING I
ITABLE              TANK                  l
(NOT TO SCALE)                                                 World Bank-15380






ANNEX 7
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Ranching Development Authority
(Office National De Developpement de l'Elevage)
General
1.        ONDE was established under the first IDA livestock project (Credit
398-CK). Its objective was:
"To promote livestock development, and more particularly
to rehabilitate and run specified public ranches and also
facilitate the development of semi-private enterprises,
more especially of Zairians" (Appraisal Report No. 100-a,
Annex 10).
As a first stage in its development it was made responsible for three ranches
to be developed under the Project: Muhila, Mitwaba and Kayembe-Mukulu in
the province of Shaba. However, following the Zairianization measures taken
on November 30, 1973 (i.e., the nationalization of all big privately-owned
ranches), ONDE was given more responsibility than had been planned for the
early stages of its existence. It was entrusted with the management of
five additional ranches, one abattoir in Bunia, one butchery in Kamina,
veterinary laboratories in Kinshasaand Lubumbashi. As a result the Head-
quarters were moved from Lubumbashi to Kinshasa.  In Government ONDE is
regarded as one of the most efficient state organizations.
2.        In addition to ONDE there are now three other organizations in-
volved in ranching operations, namely: the DPN (Le Domaine Presidentiel
de la N'Sele), CELZA (Cultures et Elevages du Zaire) and the SGA (Societe
Generale d'Alimentation).   During 1974 responsibility for management of
the newly nationalized ranches changed hands between the different agencies
several times.
Ranches
3.        ONDE now operates a total of 8 ranches (5 in Shaba and one each
in Kinshasa and Bandundu) with 99,781 head of cattle (see table below).
The first livestock project is extending Muhila and Kayembe-Mukulu ranches
and developing Mitwaba. Lomani and Katongola ranches are well developed
while La Luilu is understocked. Kabuba and Gunga are virtually unstocked
and undeveloped. They have tsetse problems and need Ndama cattle.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
ONDE RANCHES AND CATTLE POPULATION
(December 31, 1974)
No. of
Cattle              Steer
Ha       Dec. 31    Dec.    Av. Wt.       Type of
Ranches               ('000)        1974     1975    at 4 Yr.    Cattle
First Livestock Project Ranches
Muhila             260 to 520      27,888   30,640
Mitwaba             45 to 124         939    1,198
Kayembe-Mukulu         35           4,426    4,637
Sub-total                          33,253   36,475    450 kg   Afrikander Crosses
Zairianized Ranches
Lomami (ex-
Pastoral)           213          25,320              485 kg   Afrikander/Zebu
Katongola (ex-
Grelka)             283          35,051              550 kg   Afrikander/Zebu/Tarpar-
La Luilu (ex-                                                      kar/Santa Grertrudis
Sandoa)              94           5,769              375 kg   Afrikander/Tswana
Kabuba (Kinshasa)      NA /1          248              295 kg   Ndama
Gungu (Kwangu Kwilu)  NA              230              310 kg   Ndama
Sub-Total                          66,528
Total                              99,781
/1   Potential for 4 ranches of 25,000 head.
Source: ONDE 1974 Annual Report.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
4.        Other major ranches in Zaire include:
Cattle             Management
Pepa (Shaba              46,000                 CELZA
Mateba (Bas Zaire        40,000                   t
Kambayi (Kasai)          28,000                   ci
Mpaka (kasai)            18,000                   "
Kolo (Bas Zaire)         45,000                 DPN
Kundelungu (Shaba)       33,000                 SGA
210,000
Source: ONDE 1974 Annual Report.
A number of other smaller ranches exist. In 1968 it was estimated that
304,000 cattle were kept by large pastoral companies, 104,000 by private
cattle owners and 38,500 by missions).
Resources of ONDE
5.        The capital of ONDE consists of:  (a) transferred assets of the
production entities under its responsiblity (8 ranches, 2 veterinary lab-
oratories, 1 slaughterhouse, 1 butcher shop), (b) grants from the Government,
(c) reserves accumulated and operating surplus. When it was set up, it was
deemed that ONDE would also receive loans from the Government to develop
and operate its enterprises and, that it would raise funds from local banks
and overseas bodies according to normal commercial practices. So far ONDE
has only relied on loans from Government.
6.        At appraisal information on non-IDA enterprises was incomplete.
Unaudited consolidated accounts for 1974 of enterprises outside the IDA
project (two ranches Lomami, La Luilu, abattoir, butchery and laboratories)
showed a small surplus of Z 106,000. Surpluses emanated from two ranches,
Lomami (Z 111,856) and La Luilu (Z 11,059). Bunia abattoir and laboratories
lost money. The laboratories receive a subvention from Government. Because
of their recent acquisition accounts for one large ranch, Katongola and two
undeveloped ranches Kabuba and Glungu were not available; the former ranch was
making a profit, the latter ranches losing money. Subsequent to appraisal
the unaudited consolidated accounts for 1975 for all of ONDEs enterprises
show that ONDE made a profit of Z 199,000 in 1975 (Tables 1 and 2). Only
the larger operations had been audited by independent auditors but ONDE has
since made arrangements for the smaller entities to be audited also. The
enterprises showing surpluses were the Katongola, La Luilu and IDA Project
ranches and Kamina butchery and Lubumbashi laboratory. The audited accounts
for the IDA project for 1974 show an expected loss of Z 333,000 followed by a
profit of Z 582,000 in 1975 before provisions of Z 160,000 are deducted (Table
3); the latter profit being largely due to a 47% increase in the value of the
herd which had increased in numbers by 9.6% (33,253 to 36,475 cattle). To
obtain some idea of the scale of the different operations the following sales
were recorded in 1974 and 1975.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
1974         1975
Z ('000)      Z('000)
3 First Livestock Project Ranches         354,752       360,308
Lomami Ranch                              296,623       440,037
La Luilu Ranch                             109,059       42,374
Kamina Abattoir                           208,950       290,600
Bunia Abattoir                               1,258       32,064
Lubumbashi Laboratory                       19,028       50,174
Kinshasa Laboratory                          1,421       25,552
Katongola Ranch                               n.a.      656,185
Gungu Ranch                                   n.a.         1,198
Personnel
7.        ONDE currently employs 2,805 people of whom 22 have college or
higher education degrees. It also employs 25 expatriates. ONDE is concerned
with the welfare of its employees operating 3 schools and 13 dispensaries on
its ranches.
The Project
8.        The proposed Project would enlarge ONDE's responsibilities with
four new production entities: (a) the 3 ranches of Kerekere, Asada and the
Dele which would be transferred from Kilomines, (b) the Kisangani abattoir.
ONDE should be able to cope with these added responsiblities. Since it is
operating the abattoir in Bunia it would be logical for ONDE to also operate
the abattoir in Kisangani. This would permit coordination of activities
and realize economies in investment mainly in procurement and more impor-
tantly in technical services. In addition, ONDE's responsiblity as a
commercial enterprise should bring about improved efficiency and profita-
bility of both abattoirs.
9.        The overall commercial viability of ONDE's enterprises are mar-
ginal and certainly below that envisaged when ONDE was established under
the first project. Under the Project the proposed producer meat price
changes and the acceptance of regular price adjustments associated with
a producer meat price index should restore the profitability of its major
activity, ranching, to a more commercially acceptable level. The latter
being essential if ONDE is to fulfill its role as the major ranching de-
velopment institution in Zaire capable of using funds from commercial
banks and other credit institutions. The commercialization of the
abattoirs should remove another loss maker leaving the position of the
laboratories still uncertain and in need of Government subvention if
they are not to remain an unwarranted drain on ONDE's financial resources.
10.       The Project would also contribute to strengthening ONDE as an
institution by recruiting and financing an expatriate financial adviser
whose major task would be to reorganize ONDE's accounting system, and
train accountants in ranch accounts practices. He would also advise on
the general financial policy to be followed by ONDE as well as on pro-
curement practices, etc. An experienced ranch maanger and two techni-
cians to renovate and reorganize the abattoirs would also be provided.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
11.       As ONDE's financial resources are insufficient to develop the
ranches and abattoirs it would receive Z 1,970,000 from Government for ranch
development and Z 576,000 for capital and technical assistance costs of
the abattoirs. All but Z 410,000 for ranch working capital would be in
the form of a grant as equity to the enterprises. The loan would be for 20
years at 11.5% interest. Cash flow and loan repayment of ranches Annex
5, Table 1. Government would also provide or make arrangements for com-
mercial banks to provide the working capital for the abattoirs. The pro-
fitability of the enterprises will very much depend on the prices of meat
and level of fees set by the Goverument (cash flow table for ranches:
Annex 5, Table 1, Abattoirs - Annex 6, Table 12).
September 20, 1976



ANNEX/ANNEXE 7
Table/Tableau 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                      PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT D'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
ONDE - Consolidated Balance Sheet - 1975                         Bilan Consolide de l'ONDE - 1975
ASSETS                                                                              ACTIF
Fixed Assets                                                                        Immobilisations
- Land  and Concessions                      57,834,190                             - Terrains et concessions
- Building and Constructions566,648,654                                             - Immeubles et constructions
Depreciation               219,462,054                                              Amortissements
347,186,600
- Rolling Stock              315,948,950                                            - Matériel roulant
Depreciation               197,109,279                                              Amortissements
118,839,671
- Furniture                   52,517,293                                            - Mobilier
Depreciation                  9,670,417                                             Amortissements
42,846,876
- Tools and Various                                                                 - Outillage et matériel diverses
Materials               153,289,154
Depreciation                70,975,938                                              Amortissements
82,313,216
Other Fixed Assets                                                                  Autres valeurs immobiliseés
- Expenses of Establish-                                                            - Frais d'établissement
ment                                    20,502,404
- Deposits and Guarantees                     7,203,620                             - Cautions et garanties
- Investments                                35,066,085                             - Portefeuille et participations
- Others                                          89,960      711,882,622           - Cobayes
Value of Operation                                                                  Valeurs d'exploitation
- Herd Value                              6,613,896,298                             - Cheptel
- Various Stock                             316,878,189   6,930,774,487             - Stocks produits divers
Current and Available                                                               Réalisables et disponibles
- Customers                                 217,276,701                             - Clients
- Various Debtors                           338,754,877                             - Débiteurs divers
- Doubtful Debts                              8,234,500                             - Débiteurs douteux
- Banks                                     235,433,146                             - Banques
- C.C.P                                          210,623                            - C.C.P
- Cash                                        96,038,551      895,948,398           - Caisses
Other Debtors' Accounts                                             33,289,701      Autres comptes débiteurs
8.571,895,208
LIABILITIES                                                                         PASSIF
Equity Capital                                                                      Capitaux propres
- Capital                                 5,236,534,735                             - Capital
- Government Grant                          428,821,000                             - Dotations de l'Etat
- Grant from UNDP                           100,000,000                             - Dotation PNUD
- Reserves                                  242,155,680                             - Réserves
- Various Provisions                        271,426,289                             - Provisions diverses
6,278,937,704
Redeemable on Long-Term                                                             Exigible à L.T.
- IDA Loans                                 720,130,340                             - Emprunt IDA
- Government Loans                           50,000,000                             - Emprunt état Zairois
770,130,340
Redeemable on Short-Term                                                            Exigible à C.T.
- Suppliers                                 110,334,884                             - Fournisseurs
- Various Creditors                         458,134,382                             - Créditeurs diverses
568,469,266
Increased Value of Zairianized Assets                               706,336,555     Zairianization
Other Creditors Accounts                                            48,900,026      Autres comptes créditeurs
Profit                                                             199,121,317      Pertes et profits
8.571,895,208
February 17, 1977                                                                   le 17 février 1977



ANNNEXiANNEXE 7
Table/Tableau 2
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         PROJET DE DEVELOPPF{ENT D'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
1. ONDE Account of General Oparation - 1975                 1. Compte d'Exploitation GEnérale de l'ONDE - 1975
EXPENSES                                                               DEBIT
- Stock of Various Products 1/1                    136,118,760         - Stocks produits divers au 1/1
- Adjuetsent of Stocks                             214,754,416         - Régularisation stocks
- Various Product Purchases         186,465,414                        - Achats produits divers
- Purchases of Cattle for the                                          - Achats bétail de boucherie
Butchery                       244,117,360   430,582,774
- Cattle Operating Expenses         983,047,545                        - Frais d'exploitation bétail
- Personnel Expenses                599,305,705                        - Frais de personnel
- Works, Supplies and Externat                                         - Travaux, fournitures et services
Services                       131,483,652                             extérieurs
- Transport and Travel               44,416,502                        - Transports et déplacement
- Mission Expenses                   34,434,248                        - Frais de mission
- Duties and Taxes                   40,027,054                        - Impôts et taxes
- Management Expenses                30,110,090                        - Frais divers de gestion
- Publishing                          2,280,900                        - Publicité
1,86S,105,696
- Provision for Depreciation                       178,209,089         - Dotation aux amortissements
7.,824.770,732
INCOME                                                                 CREDIT
- Stock of Various Products 31/12                  316,878,189         - Stocks produits divers au 31/12
- Sales                                          1,990,141,980         - Chiffre d'affaires
2,307,020,169
- Operating Loss                                   517,750,563         - Mali d'exploitation
2,824,770,732
2. ONDE Profit and Losa Account for                                  2. Compte Pertes et Profits au 31/12/75
Year Ending 31/12/75
EXPENSES                                                               DEBIT
- Operating Resulta                                517,750,563         - Résultat d'exploitation
- Various Losses                                    19,771,338         - Pertes diverses
- Transfer to Reserves                             189,000,000         - Dotations aux réserves
- Provisions for Stocks                             57,583,090         - Dotations aux provisions
- Loss Brought Porvard                                                 - Report perte P.M.M.K. 1974
P.M.M.E. - 1974                333,808,370
- Profit Brought Foriiard                                              - Report boni ONDE 1974
ONDE - 1974                      3,116,681   330,691,689
1,114,796,680
Profit for the Year                              199,121,317         - Résultat de l'exercice
1,313 917, 997
INCOQE                                                                 CREDIT
- Subventions froei the State                      212,873,660         - Subventions de fonctionnement de l'Etat
- Various Profits                                  125,198,137         - Profits divers
- Value of Cattle                                  975,846,200         - Valorisation cheptel
1,313,917.997
February 18, 1977                                                             le 18 février 1977



AN N  X8ANNIIEXrE 7
T&ble Tableau3
ZAIRE
IRDRI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPENT                                             PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEIT DE L'ELEYAGE EN ITU2RI
Project Ibtila - Nitwba - Xayebe Nukulu                                         Projet Muhils - Nitvbs - Ravembe Mukulu
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loos Accouant 1974 and 1975                          Bilan et Compte de Profit. et Pertes 1974 et 1975
<A)  B&ALMCE SET AT DBECBMER 31. 1975                                                                       (A)  BILAN AU 31 DECEMBRE 1975
1975                  1974
USE OF FUNDS                                               Z                     Z                          EMPLOI DU CAPITAL
Fixed Adset.                                           356,828               331.231                        I_obiliss
Guarantees Qf More than a vear                           3,745                 3,361                        Garanties à plus d'un an
Current '                                                                                                   Re'alieable
Liveatock                                         3,604,641             2,448,125                           Cheptel bovin
Stock & Supplieo                                    134,474                62,599                           Stocke et approvisionnemants
D btora                                             184,959               172,275                           Ddbiteurs
Cash haerves & Bank Dapomita                         53,700                72,351                           Caisses et banques
3,977,774             2,755,350
Leas:                                                                                                       Moine:
AccoUDnt Payable                                                                                            Exigible
Supplera                                             93,525                87,119                           Fournisoeura
Creditors snd Exp,enss to meat                      265.327               15*.173                           Créditeurs et frais ` payer
Provision for loses and charges                     160,000                  -                              Provision pour pertes et char'rn
518,852              237,292
Net Current Assets                                   3,819.495             2,5186058                        Actif Courant Net
3,979.495             .5
Funde Used                                                                                                  capital Emplovd
Initial Funda                                        2,700,000             2,700,000                        Fonds Initial
State Grant                                            261.116               165,476                        Dotation de L'état
2,961,116             2,865,476
Resultt                                                 88,249             ( 333.808)                       Resultats
3,049,365             2,531,668                       Emprunts à Long Terme
Long-Term Loans                                        770,130               320.982                        Emprunts à Long Temue
1,e19 495             2,852,650
(B) PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMnER 31. 1975                            (B) COMPTE DE PROFITS ET PERTES POUR L ANNEE TERMINEE
LE 31 DECM RE 197
lOs aontha/a snmoia
1975                         1974
z             z                     z
Sàles                                                             360,308              354,752              Vantes
Value of Stock                                                                                              chi=lfre d'affaires
aLIve$tbrcg  t JSnuary let                    2,446,225                           2,411,150                 Cheptel au I janvier
Purchases of stock                              181.390                             221.630                 Achats de bétail
2,627,615                          2,632,780
Livestock et December 31 (note 1(b))          3.603.461                           2,446.225                 Cheptel au 31 dl ceubre
(nonte 1(b))
975,846            ( 186.555)
1,336,154              168,197
Lasa:                                                                                                       %i35
Overheads                                       672,393                             438,386                 Frais generaux
Amortizations                                    81.704                              63,619                 Amortissements
tloi" fer leae   eddahUlV                       160.000                             _     _                 rmtIOI D le Pm-alion pour
*parte et cuerge
914,097              502,005
Financil Profit (Loss)                                        422,057              (333,808)                Benefice (perte) de
l'exercice
Report b/f                                                    (333,8081                   -                 Rapport b/f
Balance b/f                                                     88,249             (333.80S)                Solda reporté b/f
July 21, 1976                                                                                                    la 21 juillet 1976



ANNEX 8
Append ix 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
D irector General
project Policy
and
CoordPnateng Committee
|   Director                                                                                 |    Director General     |
of                                                                                                of
veterinary Services                                                                                     ON1\DE
Itr Prjc Uni                                       Consultative 
ItnProjec t M nage   .________.- ---                   Sub-Regional    -__________-    - 
ProJect Manager l/C                       ~~~Committee
1~~                                                                                 __
Project Unit                                                                            ITURI                     ITURI
Sections'                                                                             Ranches                  Abattoirs
Field, Ma/ rketing                 Animal Hubadr                   Extension and Training                    Financial and
and Meat                       Specialist Section                 Specialist Section                    Administrative                 Ngabu Training Centre
Inspection                     Animal Production                  Extension & Training                        Unit                      Principal l/C
Services                          Officer l/C                       Specialist l/C                     Fin Director l/C 
Veterinarian I/C                       f      C
'Responsibilities of senior staff of IPU given in Annex 8, Appendix 2 and suggested work program in Annex 3 for animal health and production program
and Annex 2 for marketing services
Worid Bank-16559






ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 1
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference and Qualification of Ituri Project Unit Staff
1.        Responsibilities and qualifications of Senior Ituri Project Unit
staff and other Technical Assistance personnel are summarized below.
Project Manager
2.        The Project Manager will be responsible for managing the livestock
development program in the traditional areas. His duties will include
formulation of the policy and program of work, administration of the Project,
preparation of estimates, control of finances, coordination with other
departments and evaluating the program. Re will liaise closely with ONDE
staff over the marketing and purchasing of traditional area cattle, devel-
oping a mutually agreed program of work. Special attention will be paid to
establishing a sound organizational and staffing structure for the future
veterinary and animal husbandry services in the area and a program for
ensuring the continuance of the dipping and veterinary medicine program. He
will sign all disbursement statements.
3.        Qualifications.  Veterinary, Animal Husbandry or Agriculture degree
(the last combined with livestock experience) with 10 years experience in
livestock extension work and relevant managerial experience. An expatriate
manager would be required for two years.
Deputy Project Manager
4.        The Deputy Project Manager will assist the Project Manager in his
duties. Emphasis would be placed on field work, assisting with the develop-
ment of the dips, dispensaries, marketing and slaughterhouse programs and
particularly the establishment of the proposed dipping and grazing associa-
tions. He would be responsible for liaison between the Project and the zone
commissioners.
5.        Qualifications.  Veterinary, Animal Husbandry or Agriculture degree
(the last combined with livestock experience) with 7 years experience.
Veterinarian
6.        The Veterinarian will be responsible for developing the animal
health program, in particular the develeopment of the dips and dispensaries
including their operation; establishing charges and supply and sale of
materials; organizing dipping associations, and in coordination with the



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 2
Animal Husbandry expert, grazing associations; the development of pharmacies,
clinics and dispensaries in Ituri; through various training programs improv-
ing the professional animal health competence of the veterinary staff and
developing work routines; maintaining close liaison with the diagnostic
laboratories at Nioka and Kinshasa; overseeing the meat inspection program
in the abattoirs and slaughterhouses; collecting data and evaluating the
value of the animal health program.
7.        Qualifications.  Veterinary degree with 5 years tropical experience.
An expatriate for 5 years.
Animal Husbandry Specialist
8.        The Animal Husbandry Specialist will be responsible for developing
the animal production program in particular; establishing better grazing man-
agement in areas serviced by dips and associations, including if applicable,
the establishment of grazing associations; generally support the animal health
program and work in close contact with the veterinarian; investigating, demon-
strating and extending improved animal husbandry techniques for the various
classes of livestock found in the area; investigating ways of integrating
livestock and crop production and considering means of extending livestock
keeping to those without stock; developing a suitable credit program.
8.        Qualifications.  Degree in Animal Husbandry or, combined with rele-
vant experience, Veterinary or Agriculture degree. 5 year experience. Ex-
patriate required for 4 years.
Extension Specialist
10.       The duties and responsiblities of the Extension Specialist are
outlined in Annex 4 para 2. He would work closely with the Veterinary and
Animal Production Specialists.
11.       Qualifications.  Degree in Agriculture, Veterinary or Animal Hus-
bandry with 5 years relevant experience in general extension and training.
Expatriate required for 3 years.
Director of Administration/Finance
12.       The Director will be responsible for the management of all finan-
cial and general administrative aspects of the Project. He would establish
accounts, stores, and administrative procedures; develop a suitable account-
ing and storekeeping system for the revolving fund and control of dips and
drugs distributed to the various dispensaries; control expenditures; order
stores; sign disbursement documents; prepare Project accounts and estimates
as required for Project management purposes; train staff.
13.       Qualifications.  Financial Analyst or accountant, 5 years experience,
preferably with experience of agricultural projects. Required for 4 years.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 3
Building Specialist
14.       The Building Specialist will be responsible for developing the
Project's construction program. He would investigate building design and
costs and determine the best way to achieve the Project targets. He would be
responsible for assessing the competence of local contractors, formulating
contracts, supervisory work, ordering materials. Before his departure he
would provide a detailed work program on materials required and steps to be
taken to complete the Project's building program.
15.       Qualifications.  Building Diploma with relevant experience to carry
out the functions required.
Mechanical/Workshop Specialist
16.       This Specialist will be responsible for establishing the project
workshop, repairing vehicles, ordering stores; establishing vehicle mainte-
nance and repair routines; stores accounting; training staff.
17.       Qualifications.  Qualified motor mechanic capable of carrying out
the duties required.
Principal, Ngabu Training Center
18.       The Ngabu Training Center will be part of and come under the di-
rection of the Ituri Project Unit. The principal will be responsible for
developing the center and defining, in collaboration with the Project Manager
and Extension Specialist the policy for the center and the contents and length
of the various training courses. He will organize the courses and prepare the
relevant teaching material. His main tasks will be to administer the center
and lecture to students but, in order to evaluate the courses, he will also
take an interest in the activities of selected students after they have
completed the course. He will also maintain contact with other agricultural
and veterinary training establishments and the Nioka Research Station.
19.       Qualifications:  Relevant qualifictions in the agricultural and
animal production with special interest in education and communication
techniques.



ANNEX/ANNEXE 9
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                 PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
CosIe.f Studies, P?ojeet Evaluation                     Coûts des Etudes. de l'Evaluation et
and Financial Adviser to ONDE                           Conseiller Financier de l'ONDE
1.  Possible Preparation Report Study                                             1.  Etude Possible de la Préparation du Rapport.
Man-months/       $'°OO/
homme-mois    milliers de $
Team leader                                       6             60                Chef d'équipe
Livestock specialist                              2             14                Spécialiste de l'élevage
Agriculturalist                                   3             21                Agronome
Marketing specialist                              2             14                Spécialiste de la commercialisation
Economist                                         5             35                Economiste
Education training specialist                     2            14                 Spécialiste de la formation
Land tenure adviser                               2             14                Conseiller  de la propriéte foncière
Fisheries expert                                  2             14                Expert en pisciculture
Sociologist                                      2             14                 Sociologue
Roads engineer                                    2             14                Ingénieur des ponts et chaussées
28           214
2.  Other Studies. c.g. Small Stock Production,    9                64            2. Autres études (exemple:  production de peri
T8etse, Toto5aI"ninbo, etc.                                                       Éevage, manche teête8. totoba/ptmbo, etc.)
3.  Project Evaluation Year 5.                                                    3.  Evaluation du projet ex post 5ème année.
Livestock specialist                              3             27                Spécialiste de l'élevage
Economist                                         3            27                 Economiste
Consultants all inclusive costs                               332                 Consultants:  tous frais inclus
Government extra expenditure involved 15%                       48                Autres dépenses du gouvernement 15%
Total for Studies in Project Area                             380                 Somme totale pour les études dans la zone du projet
4.  Financial adviser for ONDE (5 years)              Say:         350                Conseiller Financier de I'3NDE  (5 ans)
730
July 23, 1976                                                                     le 23 juillet 1976



ANNEX 10
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Reporting and Monitoring
1.        The IPU and ONDE would provide reports to IDA at the end of every
6 month period dealing with Project implementation, finances and effect
of the Project on the intended beneficiaries. The principal information
submitted would cover, among other areas, the following:
1.   The rate of Project implementation including a comparison of
actual and forecast programs.
2.   Development of the dipping and veterinary medicine programs,
number of stock, revenues, etc.
3.   Progress with implementing the market and slaughterhouse program,
throughput, revenues, etc.
4.   Up to date cost estimates.
5.   Progress with improved animal production.
6.   Assessment of benefits and number of beneficiaries affected by
the Project and comparison with forecast.
7.   Relevant statistical information on weather, cattle numbers,
state of grazing, animal health, diagnostic work, etc.
8.   Training program for staff and farmers.
9.   On ranches (additional to audited reports):
(a) Weather, state of grazing development of the herd, per-
formance coefficients, number of fattening stock, animal
health, sales, income.
(b) Costs and financial situation.
(c) Management and training.
10.   Abattoirs (additional to audited reports):
(a) Throughput, standard of operation.
(b) Costs and financial situation.
(c) Management and training.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
2.        In order to assess progress of the Project and to make future
management decisions, it will be necessary to determine data requirements
and ensure their proper collection and evaluation. Fortunately in the
traditional sector in Ituri there is already a recognized pattern of
reporting including: data collection of stock numbers; herd composition
and ownership; details of veterinary treatments; market information; and
partial recording of Veterinary Department expenditures and revenues. At
present, clerks in the zone and subregional headquarters consolidate the
information as it comes in from the field. The ranches and abattoirs also
prepare some performance data although there is room for considerable
improvement.
3.        Under the Project the various section heads of IPU would be
responsible for reviewing the present data collection system, determining
future requirements and collecting the information with existing personnel.
Base line data would be established at the outset. The roles of their
various staff would be delineated with the object of ensuring proper
information collation on time. The section heads would provide regular
consolidated reports to the Manager with comments including general impact
of the Project and how the results compare with budget targets and base
line data. The IPU Mlanager or his Deputy would be responsible for review-
ing the reports and at quarterly or half yearly intervals, summarizing,
drawing conclusions and taking action on the main points emerging. Examples
of the type of information that will be needed is illustrated in the tables,
Annexes 2 and 3. Heads of sections would evaluate the data as much as possible
although at times it might be necessary to employ a consultant to investigate
certain aspects further. An evaluation team would look at the whole Project
at the end of the implementation period.
4.        ONDE now has an economist at headquarters whose main task is the
collection and analysis of data from ONDE's enterprises. He would assist
the Ituri General Ranch Manager and Abattoir staff in establishing the
data collection system necessary on these enterprises. The type of data
that will be required is illustrated in the tables in Annexes 5 and 6. The
present office staff in the ranch and abattoir offices should, with assistance
on methodology, be able to consolidate the data.



ZACRE
ITIRl LIVESTOCK IEVELOPTiT  ROS TElT                                                        PROJET SE DEVELOPPRhERf SI 'El,LAGE  NITLR
Proiect Implemeviaisun Driodule                                                                  7sievdrier d'E.êueiîv du Proies
lelouder Tsar                                                             1977              1978             1979              1980              1981              1982               A.... Civile
C elond os Q uerrers                                                  i   2   3    4   1    2   3   4    1   2    3   4    1   2    3   4   1    2   3    4   1    2   3   4          Trimestres   Civils
ProiecL Y-a                                                                   Prose ,t Yea        Pt.jet YeA  2  ft Ydu         31oe   Pt.3..t Y.t 4  Pro ect Y-tr 5  _ _             Anné. du Proiet
=~ ~~~~~~~-    - - _ _                                                           -              LOu _ _       _                                           1De rr_
1.lstEt-se1    Iéree
ReIerlitmei, pleurivi1                                                                                                                                                                 eRrueos , ....rsso
Prive Rev.eo &  hesies                                                                                                                                                                Rentsioe des pris et shesgeTeete
2.  IPU Servias.                                                                                                                                                                     2.   Services du Bure-t Proîse-lturi
Prelimirsryislormutso  o rutersera                                                                                                                                                    S    esseigeemoats prelieximmires eass fermsiers
isrebîisfsiai UQ                                                              _l_   _                                                                                                  Eehlis-eLeset des quartiere-géaêessszE
Orderingeesesel.  items, ratin.es                                       _C..m.der les prise pa..  postes, véhisules
_euties ai dipe medi.i_es                                                                                                                                                              Seerton  de prodaits d' nserioa   de d sddieerears
isseasel Pro jeet staff in puer                                                                                                                                                       Cedres  Psseatiels do projet se  peste
SeoesetvLLg progralu                                                          __ _                                                                                                     Ogeieiser les prsgsermes
Building prugree rommercs                                                                                                                                                             Peegrssne de  ocetroctise e nrer
PCsasaen long r noge huildesi proera-                                  Ileirta   de p_gr   de _ssrat aelos   poa
MeaJr Beildlsg programt                                                                              -       - _   __                                                                  Pesgrsme mee jesrdaeuostrseeiee
Mtior supply omiers o de                                                            - -                                                                                                Cosmndes Reures d-sppeovîsiueoress  passées
Asieul Osealtr  Pragress                                                    I                                                                                                          P    lI reseesr   de semi<sabimale
Dier.s.s.os uith  -eessand iple tmenttion                                   I         -            __                                                                                 lileraAvitsse avec las ferige,rset sise se eeératioe
Coepslsery dipping suries esatd                                        1Ais d'-.... .hligette d_ré
V A , .t im tl y P r d u i o  pr a gr e   . c d                                                 r  tIe m a s  o  -   a   i                                                             P r- g r a s e s   d e   c ad e  r se s vdt é r l e ei r ee._  so m e e cr
APemeL PCd-tit Proger                                                                                    t --pseraîtoaa                                                -   -_           Peagcfimse de production Cefeele
F= tmer Credit PToZrelg l                                                                                                                                                                i    -   -  - _    Progr-sme de ceédit agricole
Prancip-l, Tr-iaiCg eentr- in posi                                                                              j                                                                      rire1 du c-stre de form-rne se puera
Dev -Lpme t of Tresi gi tetre                                      IFoll  oDeratuC/                                                                                                    L!iveloppreese de          d.efeessartde
PFret I-sorirs TeaavîoesiP  tereteprrîae                                                                                                                                              Premersprsgros  de fe ei-t -m -oar  d'emploi
Other training peogro  sitîvit esgt                                                                                                                                                    Autres _ ctivite'  de p_agrses  de fismaties
Meeket developteet                                                     |Dtvelopp-ment dss  -reshts
Rusrl S1egh               gtePrurse                                                                                                                                                    ProgreSes| dem ebsttsi rerses
Bide  esd BkfsitsPeagea_                                                                                                       _                                                       P-ora-r  de Pose
is3crt.     ,strtnros                                                                            l  |                                                                                   i Cvastrsstias  de pIsses de heteil
Fet renies  sad  h.m- Rssevisie   des pres et shsgsemts
3.  ONDE                                                                                                                                                                             3.   ONDE
Beah sesge  i- psit                                                                                                                                                                   Direst.or do reesh  or pacte
Rt ch mover lapmt                                                                                                         D__1 |B|_                                       |elsppemeat de-  eseihso
Ahorte ir empet   is      tF  N pEs IPertsechbttoie  se  poses
Abhttoie rehehiLitetle|                                                                                            Puéitdpecetiose l                                                   Remis  et  ts  de l'sbhttat,
Abettair fPa  revies  eed chFget                                                j                                Ploiooeo.t .p.pOi                      i i                            Revi-o  et ihergemeste  des rodeveares d'shstt.eg
Credit sigieg                                                       Apr  771                                                                                                           Sisi tare de crédit
Ceeds effactivesees                                                                                                                                                                    t carr ir sevîgu-or de ce1dit
Clssisg dete                                                                                                                                                                           Sae .t   ieems
Fehrusry 18, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                             le t8 février 1977



ANNEX/ANNEXE J2
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
Calendrier estimatif des déboursements 1J
IDA Fiscal Year               Disbursement                        Exercice et
and Quarter               at End of Quarter                    Trimestre IDA
(US$'000)
Decaissements
en Fin de Trimestre
(en milliers de dollars)
Quarterly/                  Cumulative/
en Fin de Trimestre              Cumulatif
1977/78                                                                       1977/78
September 30                                                      -            30 septembre
December 31                          50                           50           31 décembre
March 31                            190                          240           31 mars
June 30                             240                          480           30 juin
1978/79                                                                        1978/79
September 30                        300                          780           30 septembre
December 31                         320                        1,100           31 décembre
March 31                            340                        1,440           31 mars
June 30                             380                        1,820           30 juin
1979/80                                                                        1979/80
September 30                        380                        2,200           30 septembre
December 31                         380                        2,580           31 décembre
March 31                            400                        2,980           31 mars
June 30                             400                        3,380           30 juin
1980/81                                                                        1980/81
September 30                        430                        3,EPl0          30 septembre
December 31                         450                        4,260           31 décembre
March 31                            470                        4,230           31 mars
June 30                             490                        5,220           30 juin
1981/82                                                                        1981/82
September 30                        490                       5,710            30 septembre
December 31 3/                      490                        6,200           31 décembre 3/
March 31                            470                        6,670           31 mars
June 30 4/                          470                        7,140           30 juin 4/
lnq2/Q3                                                                        108?/93
September 30                        430                        7,570           30 septembre
December 31                         430                        8,000           31 décembre
1/  Expected date of signing,                         1/ Date prévue pour la signature de IiAccord
ADril 1977.                                           de Crrift, Avi107
2/  l Expected date of effectiveness,             2  'Date prévue pour entrée en vigueur,
Julv 1977.                                            Juillet 1977.
3/  Expected date of Project completion,              3/  Date prévue pour achèvement du projet,
dune 1982.                                            Juin 1982. 
4/  Closing date, December 19d2.                      4/  Date de cciJture, Décembre 1982.
F'ebruary 18, 1977                                    le 18 février 1977



-                                                                                                                        >                                                         -                >1>0 0>1          0010000600003001~~~~~~~~~~~~~27-  2I,  -M95I
0,2.01,.î.,08.01,.î.      -10.11>011             21.1 0 1-      ,0     000,000l'   00,00          -I       2           -              -                                                                                                      -           -           .          !1-70-211117011..08,,071
>0.0110110  >15  10,10  >01     01.100,00100010,00                            >,00 0000 0 .00                   1.1000,00              1.10           »000000I21l0000.
-  00.01111.00010.21  101.01    110,011,0  001071009101152    .2,01110,00000,000    10.000    0,.00711,000                  0,800       01.00001.000         101.0010,,00001.00                     îî2o,l>0,31000000
10             70  5:1               1011100011001001                                         1017 O00     107                     O OO112l.0,9                    100 7          01 1000              10000î0                    0010811
00, 500250>0'    101000  07.010    011500300.010      11,0012       04107     7. lîOl    l,l00    >1,710          1111,01100071                              07.005.,000110.0                               1,0         8.0             >
1000,>,,,o    7,>0,Oooîoo    00,1100,7070.0007.1î              01.000.0000.001                    11.00       1..7701,10             010127,7000000                      0.000l,000~  .00                07.01       7.000        2,2110110                100 p>0001,îos2î70
CooîloOl'o 0>0000,8  oO,îo,oo                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0111.1 do 101111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6~  "
..fl,fl4010   >1.10   0140011011,010000,   100>                   10000 1~OlO              007030,11»»74.41    .1,1!li.. ,710>00                               000        000010 100,0                  000
7700  711.717707.000700,700  71007,   00110070001>    10110    10700  10.00    10.07  110010 110.77  00,00    00.0>071,0111,00                  007 000 001070           lî,I00.10.000300087000017î1001010030
0.,,..01800,7>,000.>.,>  10.10017                                                                                                                                                                                                    do 0.o00,10>22, 01.000. Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1l
0,01 001020,0001.10        00,207000>0027                     14.0       0>,017700              10.1        11.11    0001          1>.01      .,,0.1      11,001000               0000        0100      0104            100,
-  00.21100.700      01.00100,000071 0>                  001        700        0.001100.07.0.11,00                                      00100 1    11.01,      7,00        7000-0,0               11.001     0  11,0    17  00           0.0
0,>1,1        ,01        10,010,>000    170',00                       10,0        OO00         010777,040,00                     00.00      70,0>l,07710>'70071,0>0,1000,000.0071040007000000
007 00,yîool 70200008713   .  10.0>  10,î00  0,000  01000  .1,000,0007olOO,100 0,0100.0 0                 4,000       ,000      10,100,077,100                     0>01       10.001,0700.00 7.070100 84008020 070o701
- 0,00 0001         0.000.720,300.072,100,700107    0,00 0000                                                              0.01011070,00 2201                            0,700.100.000,07 ,700                                           0s
.1.01,00,     70077    .17 1.0070                 O                                   051.1                8.0        1,0        11001.000011.000.00100,,010001.10                                                                      1711 1100                    E>0o7,,00,7o>l000001
01,201.  lob,0   1710>10000 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7»   ,0001111.00
l7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 00>






I10I 10060780E R10010MTE 780300T                                                                                                   PRO-T DE DE20,dPP00lT 0' EL0742   EN =OR                                           090/280  13
1          2           3           4          3           6          7           8           9         12          i1          12          15         14          15          14          17         18          1l          20
10NI6
Rev  "elro  taRe a, -d                     295, 750   454,460   865,860 1,200,560 1,709,640 2,004.380 2,717,950 5,855,010 4,385,275 4,840,580 5.678,630 5,678,630 5,678,450 5,878,650 5,678,630 5,678,630 5,078,630 5,78.650 5.670,630 5,678,R30                                              aetedRnesc
Os,R1/45 prkg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Peea,edbetn-, a   45ea-î-
Operatflos Rases                 8~~~~~~4,820  92500   102,040    110, 070   1 25, 060    132,130    149,000    173,58       088, 780    201,540    202,112    221.010   0221,110    021.112    221, 120   221,110    221.112    221,110    201,110   2~2~1,~10                  tece a-      1ertn
RpeesonCEst-                                        -           -        20,150     16,520     08,950         -         0,050       6,670      0,640      08,52       2,250       6. 670        -         9,640     51,160        6,670         -           -       10  70            e4  de ResPae- -a
Percte  eR St-k & Ridas                    257.808   410,060       7.5   ,8,8    .1.4    .8.8   .2.4  3,409. 7005.99.116 4.533_9410_4,0703497004970045700407004070040 00457040 4,957.040 t, 007,040                                                                                         AcRet Ot BOalO et Pean
OntL-terc                            576.160    000,050   075,790 0.001.080 1,659,770 0,944,240 7,577,040 5,565,510 4,134,560 4,550,590 5,207,157 5,180,450 5,084,870 5.178,200 5,187,840 5,209,-t  3,084,670 5,078,200 5,170,200 5,190,370                                           Total -PartIel
Anme1 S-.pl-e (dofttl)                       6312,2507  6252,5785   620,1347    03,750)   35,780         38,030    126,010   256,140   231,167    268,870   446,500   475,870   470,980    478,320   487,710   444,040   495,760   47R,320   478,520    465,280                                 REe~ddnt ta- défont) e-osi  de
tsets   re    ta  -cd  ..e          986,000   102,190    106,510    710,860   I1R,700    122,100    127,760    133,420    139,510   145,690    152,690    152,690    152,090    152,697    152,690    152,-0    152,690   150,697    152,690    152.685Reete   de vete- et See.dol-                                          tn
Rpersotcî testa                  75,5~~~~11:20  78,:010    82,190   85,600      87,830     91, 300     05, 880     06,30    000,060   104.260   107.9120   l107,900    107.920    107,925    102,970   10~7,9310   l07,920l   107,020    107,920    l107.20CetdoliaRn
Replsteeecoonets                   -           -           .    ~     ~    ~    ~~-   .    6430       16,720         -           .          .              ~ R40  1620         .           -           .        t43        06720                      .                           edeeaepl oe
Ont-tetel                   09~~~~~~~11,740    137,390  80,190  85,610     87,850      71,388      93,880      96,930   100,060   104,060   114.350    124,640    107,900    107,920   107,920    114,350   124,640   107,900    107,020    107,820                           LRtel Partiel
107,  RaoOOettecs                              18.174      13.739       O 213      R 500       8.783       8 281     11 060       9 683      10 808     10.426   '111.435       12,464     1 0.792     17.792    10,792        Il 435      12,464     1072         072         079               0  fes  aRîIordo
Tetel                                189,914_ 151.129    90.409    9.7               861        0,9        121.680   0683         110,866   104.666   I05,785    1704             1812       18.712   118,712   125.785   137,104   118 72    118,712   116 712                        Teel
konnel Seeplas  (daflent>         60~~(01,9045   48,9397    16.101     00,709     20,167      14,509       8.170      2 , 797    2 9,44o     30,004    16,905       13,586      55,078      55,978      33 ,978     26,9005    15,586      33,978      35,978      35.978            Et-Rd-n   a   Otl)s,eld
Piec -lRt  n8 t--r, 12.15%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .        ~R   bli!1,5
100  orael   dc   Je   aeetctp                           .î                                                                   0   n,eLLe  d-eren   2/5,5
100  eoto    elce                                        2.21%0  d-aRo-tO- d-srcte                                                                                                             .5
10%  -eet-s Rn ...,ar                                                                                                        10%   nooate         s   et  et
10%  red-tin  le Leccen-                                9.92%                                                                îo% dOo-otle  dearaetee                                       -l
00%  îea  nteeoot  no                                                                                                        500 dianeetenar   -eccee  p-da-
tiret cOrea yeara       9~~.150            4.550                                                                     s    rl  poeotrs  one                 8.007/.               4,550.
ooittreaaentceeo  et                                                                      supoceere ~~~~~~~~que 1es pote des
1807. tueern   prto                                                                                                                eetpsmjri                           16, 957.
cnott7aeeaalcgnn                                                                         180%  e',70ertetlae de coOts de~~ldo
Inccaassincnat  O                                                                            feertlonoeoect (ro enppeaao
aooooorOdes).             4 057                                                                                         enRetont cd  oeesa
.eE   annc d-   jeetîe  d-o
1/  OTthrten  crtruaI   -ol1tc   pric  cf Z1.40 kg  -lnd be 14 557,                                                                                                             1/  Irtnedc rene int  an prIa de    1 40/kg acr  1,555.
20  lnr1ndieg pncaeplce  a_ioae  snd Rides-                                                                                                                                             ept,l   re0  ca   o   resee   e   ed
Scie l 16 976                                                                                                                                                                   1e 18 1i1nlet 1976






2AIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                         PROJET DE DEVELOFPPEENT DE L'ELEVAGE EN TURI
Imeet on Govern.net Budget                                                                 iDoticatiort pour le Budget de lEtqt
(IncThding lOE Phy.ic-l Co(trgenci)                                                              pis l       e            po-r dPs         t  de.
(2,000)                                                                                   en mil ier; de caDre.)
---------Tot---------------------------------------------------- - --------------                                              Total Y../
1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9         10                   12 - 20           Total. Anada
INFUhO                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENTREZ DE FONDS
IDA Credit                                        380       800       950    1,010    1 050        598                                                                               4.788        CrEdit de l'IDA
CIDA                                              314       433       387      592       520                                                                                         2,246         CIDA
FMC Tech.icel A..i.tsoce                          266       336       269       213       66                                                                                         1,150        A.si.ta-n. Tehnique de 1l F9C
FRG Tanhnic.i Aueietaoce                          188        57        57       41                                                                                                     343        Assistence Technique du FRG
Rovenue fr-m  soie of dips sud medicinen           -         70       117      170       423       516       532       541      553       563        567           568               9,164         Recotte; provenant de; Vente. de mdic.nt. et b.ins d'isser-
R.;.O.o from mtkaets                                4         5         6        6         7            9     10        il       13        15         17            17                 256         Recettes provenant de; -tché.                                sion
R.v-nue fro,m rural .ia1ghtorho,sen                 9        59        63       69        74        78        86        95       99       106        115           115               1,886        Recettes provenant de; toeries/abattoirs euraîs/ruraua
Debt service of ranch-                                       - -                          -         -         -        118      118       118        118           118               l,534         Reo, roenent de 10 dett  des ranches
T-; x  cd duti.s                                  104       112       104      101        85        69        73        76       79        76         82            81               1.690        ImpOts et droits do do"Ane
Total                                           1,265    1,872    1,953    2202    2225    1,270             701      841       862       878        899           899              23,057         Total
ODTYLOW                                                                                                                                                                                                 SORTIE  DE FONDS
Govero-ont Services                                                                                                                                                                                               du Douernement
Veterinary services                               959      1,040   1,235    1,419        917       818       866      902       881       876        909           909              19 003         S.-ic.e  Votérinaires
Trainiog, Ngabh                                   219        99        97       25        41        41        43        80       41        41         41            54               1,254         Centre de Forsetion de  gaobu
Trainin., Other                                    30        14        13       32        14        13        35        14       13        13         13            15                 339         Autre Centre de Formation
llerke's                                            7        20         9         2        2         2         2         2         2        2          2              2                  70        Msrchés
Dia,ghterhooaes                                     7       103      107        57        d1        64        69       77        81        88         95            95               1,664         Abattoirs/toeries
Dtudies                                            -         33        33      237        59                                                                                           362         Bdoc.tion
ONDE                                                                                                                                                                                                    ONDE
Capital for raochee                                                                                                                                                                                Ponds pour les ranches
9zquity                                     337       520       385       256      219                                                                                          1,717           Capital
Lbons                                       233       112       107                                                                                                               452            Prit.
Abattoirs                                         386       247        -         -        -                                                                                            633         Abattoir.
Financial Advi.er                                  67        67        67       67        67                                                                                           335         Co.seilMar financial
Debt Servine IDA Credit                                   S        9        16        24        31        36       36        36        36        36         84            82               1.085        Sovice de Resbourse,ment pour le Cr&dit de lIDA
Total                                           2,248    2         2         2         1-411       974    1,051    0.111    1,054    1,056         1,144         1,157              26.914         Total
Surpl.c  (deficit)                                                                                                                                                                           -          Ecd4deet (défi.it)
A.nuel                                           (983)    (392)    (116)         83      814       296      <350)    (270)    (192)    (178)         (245)         (258)                -              Anuol
Cusulative                                         -    (1,375)  (1,491)  (1,408)    (594)    (298)    (648)    (918)  (1,110)  (1,288)   (1,533)                (1,791)            (3,857)           Cu,iatif
ONDE' S ANNUAL02. DURPIJOS                                                                                                                                                                              EXCEDENT  ANNUEL DE L'MDED
ianches                                            47        (8)       59       87        37        67       178       453       722      840        840            840             10,882              R nch..
Abattoirs                                                                                                                                                                                               Abattoirs
eo-ia                                                   -        -         -         33         2        82      214       251       210        472           492               5,692             Bunia
Risangani                                     23        24       24        25        29        24        17        37       40        41         38            40                 682              Kisangani
Febrnary 11, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                        l. il fivrier 1977



ANNEX 15
ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        The internal economic rate of return of the proposed Project would
be 29% (Table 1). The internal economic rate of return for the three major
project components would be: Traditional Sector 26%; Combined Ranches 23%;
and Abattoirs 37% (Table 2). The basic assumptions used in the analysis
were:
(a)  The economic life of the Project was assumed
to be 20 years.
(b) Price contingencies, import taxes and duties
were excluded from the cost estimates.
(c) Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued
upward by 26% to a rate of US$1 = Z 1.10 (as
compared with the present rate of US$1 = Z 0.87)
to more accurately reflect the value of foreign
exchange to Zaire. Project benefits were shadow
priced on the grounds that, without the Project,
additional beef imports would be necessary to
satisfy domestic demand.
(d) All labor costs for veterinary services, ranch
and abattoir operations were valued at expected
January 1977 wage rates, which are assumed to
reflect economic costs of this type of skilled
and semi-skilled labor. Farm labor costs were
not included, since the economic cost was
assumed to be zero as the additional family
labor would not be otherwise employed.
(e) All Project investments and operating costs
(including physical contingencies) with the
exception of technical assistance intended
for future Project preparation and general
management of ONDE headquarters have been
included in the rate of return calculations.
2.        The sensitivity of the rate of return of the total project to
changes in some of the basic parameters is illustrated below:



ANNEX 15
Page z
Internal
Assumptions                                    Rate of Return
Basic Run                                          28.7%
(a)  10% increase in costs                         25.8%
(b)  10% decrease in production                    25.5%
(c) 10% increase in costs and a
10% decrease in production                    22.7%
(d) 50% reduction in income in
the first three years                         26.4%
(e) deferment of Project bene-
fits for 2 years                              18.3%



ITMRI LIVESD OCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                      PRtJEI Dr DFVELOPPEhENT DE L ELEVAGE EN ITURI
Ecee..ee- Rote of Return Celculeteen                              Calcul de ReDtSbuIet6 Eceeereuee
(Z 000)                                                   et millier  de  ore
1        2         3        4         5         6        7        8        9       10        il        12       13        14        15        16       17        18        19        20
Prelet Cest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Couts de Pr1iet
Teral Base CEsst I/                             1,968    2,125    1,97D    1,912    1,623    1,315    1,395   1,444   1,498   1,456    1,563    1,548    1,581    1 539    1.493    1,544    1,573    1.498    1,486    1,521   CeGts de base I/
Shsdee P7icing ef F-ereig  Erhaugu Cert e/        395       347       318      281       243       188      199      204     213      203       220       218      224       218       207      218       222       208       205      213   Les ceIRa dea devises eraldes
Tutal Aduu.ed Preeict Cest 3/                  2,544    2,720    2,518    2,412    2,053    1,653    1,742   1,813   1,881   1,825    1,961    1,943    1,985    1,932    1,870    1,938    1,975    1,877    1,858    1,907    Cules tutssetlustls du
prejet 3/
Total Value ef Iecroeeutal Productiot
Production                                        345       557       944    1,388    1,931    2,214    3.217   4,439   4,821   5,384    6,319    6,408    6,519    6,519    6,519    6,519    6,519    6,519    6,519   11 765                  Roue .pp1dentaire
Shudue Ptritig ef Production 2/                    90       145       245      3eo       502       575      836   1,154   1,253   1,399   1,642        1,666    1,694    1,694    1,694    1,694    1,694    1,694    1,694    3.058   Pruductîusesrlude se prie
(Respect sebsRleurtee                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d virpratue e(uîsiut
Te-sl Adlusted Deeresteeral Prudeetcu             435       702    1,189    1,748    2,433    2,789    4.053   5.593   6,074   6,783    7,961    8,074    8,213    8,213    8,213    8,213    8,213    8,213    8.213   14,823   Valeur eecie  iu-se  de
Net itcre-et1 BerfitR                          (71091  (2.018)  (1,3295    (6645         3bO    1,136    2.311   3.780   4,193   4,958    6,000    6,131    6,228    6 281    6.343    6,275    6,241    6,336    6.355   12,916    Bpnet6au du  rejet    eu
Rate oE Return   28.65%                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Taue de -retabilite 2.8652
SeRcietiite ,5,csltais                                                                       8,clvee du DrSî-ibiIitE
^ IRO  iecresue it  cests  25.75%                                                - 10% ouge..tateie de cdutu    25,75%
- 10% deecease i  pruducttio   25.45%                                           - lD% diîiRetiR  de pruducRtio  25.45%
- 1% itrere..e Rt custs  ud 10% decrease iR  prud.tteen   22.65%                 ^ 10  segseetatiue de ceutt  et 10% di=tiution du productiou  22.657%
- 50% lues R.  e icet in E-t th-ee yrocs 26.354                                  - 50% ditieuctei des re..ette  p-edaut 1lu  trucs preuibrea actées 26.357
- dreEer=et DE pruject beneEits by tut  -trer   18.25h                           - lérêRfers de proîst retardés de dete au  18,25%
1'  RcludiRg iReport tare. a.d dutiîr                                                                                 1/ Taur-  d'iRpurRttiRu  at d-oite de dutac-  exclus.
2/  Furetige uehaege valucd st US51 - Z 1.12 (ufficia1 rate Mey 1976 USDl   Z 0.87).                                  2/ Ruaîué ee tutu de chaugevirtuel 1 do11u  EU - 1,10 autres C             fufiil de  aR 1976  1 del1a  EU   0.87 ..r-)
3' lncluding 10% physic-l ..etiîgeueies                                                                               3/ 107 p-ur frtis itpre,tu -   c-lus
4/  IucludiRg Rnrreseutal herd talue ie ytsr 20                                                                       4/ Valeureresidulle du tr-Dp.au y cesprie,
July 13, 1976                                                                                                         le 13 juRilet 1976



ETUTJE LEVESTOCR DEVELOFMENT PROJECT                                                            PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMT DE LELEVAGE EN ITU15
Reacnutie Rate of Reur  TalcuIlation  Ror f-  ,cr  Iroudet      al                                         ettbtlsét -coaiqu  pour las El(enut  Pti.iP.u. dd  Projet
1rad1t2ooaî  Ipotob I72                                                                8         9         C        il         12       1'      1j4        1j         16        1'       le        19         20       Secteur Tradirtioa1l
Costte =                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Toits
Total Ba Ccots                         1,094   1,133   1,242  1,02         864       '09      P'7      895        84,        ?C       313      50'       8$8       080        or       88       PSb       864       3h8        882       Total  oUlt. de boe
Shadua Prio:tg of Forele7 Eoclango        210     209      209      213    11         27      141       151       110       1?7       11,4     1149      11i       150       142       141      1J4R       146       1b2        ESO       CoUts d_           evalus au
Tottl  oRts                             1,30o4   1,342   1,4L7   1,l1o   1,-15        P9        971    1, '?t      980       357       990    1, 32    1,   2      j '41 i     992    1,'32       997    1,01c        990      1,032       Total    rto-I
Benefits 
Milk                                        3      1        17       28      41        54        6        63        73        76        7S       71        69        t3         69        69       69        69        69         69       Lait
M-et -                                     59      122    410       607   1,041    1,4?    Z,168    2,970    3,236    3,738    4,636    4,764    L,895    L,805              4,090    4,395    1,B9q    1,895    4,891         9,041       Viind-
Tot,l Benfuos                              62     132      42-h      o    1,-32    1,489 l    ,08    3,033    3,309         ,811,    4,711    4,8'5    4,01   4,964,964     4,         ,94 L     ,964     4,964    4,964      9,113        Total  4néefic..
Tacromeatol Econo=uC Bote  T f Rot-r  = 26.35%                                                                                                                                                                                             T-ux de Rkat.bilité éooasRqoc
sapéstar      6.331.
Ranch Eoaraaext 4/                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To    plei2nto   ir;nelea 354
O^t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t oudts V
Total Booe Cqots                          418    606       564      433     '05       3'2       '2'      314       395       350       381      047       42       366         ?33      325       399       342       336        327       Total Cblts do base
Shdadw Pauonao os  Eorelot  xuhageg        66      P7       76       55      71        Ll        l l       7        54        45        51       45        bO       47          42        41                 43 44     `           1       Catt  de- devi.s.   vla   aV
Total Coast                               484     703      640      488     576       35?       368      ?51       449       095       432      392       480      407         375       366      404       386       979        368       TataI Cotte
BR,cefot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bestfices
NRt Bals  of Cattle '                     (64)      96     200      239     437       164       612    1,057    1,498    1,584    1,575    1,575    1,575   1,575            1,375    1,575 1,575    1,570    1,075            2,460       Ventes de bétail rattis
lacrePeutoo  Fcono=ica Pote otf Rturn = 22.65%                                                                                                                                                                                                Taux de Ri.tabilit' ehao.siqte
84R000ur Coapo                                                                                                                                                                   eappiâ.eetaire - 22.65%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  2  5
coct Co=ponent -/                                                                                                                                                                                                              çetpettt  - Abattoir 51
TSt1 B-te Co-ts                           465      396     163      177     25'       233       0<,      244       266       285       33'      314       304      p97         307       332      319       297       207        309       T.ara  Clott  de Basa
Shadoc P-ss- of Oorougo Ochanga            68       51      '8       12      13        7O        18        17       19        21        28       24        22       21          22        28        25       21        21         23      CTdts dca dovioe.evalcasasu
Totul Ce-tu                               533     427      201      189     '72       25'       2'2      261       285       'o6       359      338       326      31P         '29       86        344      318       018        332       Total CIots
Bcenfits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rea,fices
Net StRue of Ment -                       213      726    285       411     119       1,37      507      686       697       781       998       996      996      996         99é       996       996       99       996      1,119      VRotts de viocde actes. -
Incre=ental Eoro.c'  Rate off Rctora   36.75%                                                                                                                                                                                               Taux de Re.tsbiliti  eca,ique
ecpplciaoeeoiro = 36.75%
1   IRolulca  radltoral           s uerieco oad rural  auîhierhoes  reapureala                                  1/  Y cotpris co.pssodae-  aoreur t..d.t±_onl. ,a-rcho-  et ib.ttouro rurouc .
2/  Inulode  14 Phrac"il  ctutgocieu; eclude taxac.                                                             V  Y  -omptia 107, d. dopa.sa terto doa qu tntîres  luxeR  tan rc.presoos
3/  Ohad, pmncdaRt 101&1 . T lS lCto reffleat the aoaratty  aLe tr ftFore,,n Eihangef                           3/  Au  -aua do chaInte ourlur  de i dollor TOl  110 ool-ea pour rrileter 1e valeur de racoLa dca dealso 
4' Ineludea Kakeiera  takda, Dole ra-,heo  plu  the rtkoorokt.                                                 4/ Y  -apruu  lot rscrh,c do tccchere, Atods, DIl,  et pite de betoi1.
5'  IraiJades Dodun  uts ouagangt abattoirs-                                                                   2   Y t-xprua Ira oarronru de 8-nal  or de tucotganu7
Ratobse 18, 1976                                                                                                L  i8 actobre 1976






IBRD 11916
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                             3i           ~R 3             BT Q
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUDAN
D IPS I N O R D E R                                          *°
*      DIPS AND SPRAY RACES TO BE CONSTRUCTED OR RENOVATED
A      MARKETS WITH SCALES
A      MARKETS TO BE CREATED OR iMPROVED
L       RANCHES TO BE DEVELOPED
PROPOSED STOCK ROUTE
MAXIMUM CATTLE DENSITY AREAS
MAJOR ROADS
®      SUB-REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                                                  K.-
O      ZONE HEADOUARTERS                                      _,,
O      TOANS
RIVERBS
ZONE BOUNDARIES
-       SUB-REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
REGIONAL BOUNDARY
- - -    -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o     10  1OS      3D    40    50
KILUNSTES   S
` '`-` , <X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S-I '    '    ;1~
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h b()                                                             *k>  d  ho DPlu  
-< ` f | éT/Os X N«§Tf - . t~~~~~~~~êq
<             t                                                     A d        a      4     <,K-
_2 0 ( t g~~~ ~~ vSumousù o\* / ~~ai; t     
B                                 J;                    )          /
I   Q`  (U3C a*__w~~~~~~~~~~_~~wilK
< ) S /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii ~~~~~~~ANGO LAgJ     



