[~~~~f]~~~  ~ ~           Document of
SULL ?Xy UThe WodEd Bank
ma    =llCHAL USE ONLY
1ecort No. P-1964-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 30, 1977
This dcummenmg hn a msmeq2I id§dbmfioMi Dmn ny b need by ired ems oniy 1m iTe pgeuowmuce of
trkeiir oteaAdmdti . lb cometon [may mow Cot1BerOn be daokdl Wtorme WorlDr mama ahodwftion.



ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      - Zaire (i), 1.0OO  = 100 makuta (k)
31.00              - 1 SDR (Special Drawing Right)   US$1.15
US$1.00            - &0,87
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)     - 2,471 acres (ac) -
1 kilogram (kg)    - 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 ton (metric)     - 1,000 kg (2,205 lb)
1 liter            - 0.26 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA               - Canadian International Development Agency
FRG                - Federal Republic of Germany
FMC                - French Ministry of Cooperation
INERA              - Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche
Agronomiques
(National Institute for Agronomic Study
and Research)
IPU                - Ituri Project Unit
ONDE               - Office National de Developpement de l'Elevage
(National Ranching Development Authority)
SDR                - Special Drawing Right
SGA                - Societe Generale d'Alimentation
SOFIDE             - Societe Financiere de D&veloppement
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$8.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a second livestock project.
The project would be jointly financed by a grant estimated at US$2.5 million
and a loan estimated at US$0.8 million, on terms similar to the IDA credit,
from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), by a grant from
the French Ministry of Cooperation (FMC) in an amount estimated at US$1.5
million and by a grant from the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) in an
amount estimated at US$0.5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Zaire in April-May 1974 and its
report, entitled "Economy of Zaire" (No. 821-ZR), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 8, 1975. An updating economic mission was
conducted in May-June 1976, and its report is being finalized. Country data
are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, is rich in mineral,
agricultural, forestry and energy resources, but the country is among the
poorest in terms of per capita income. The key constraints to development
are: (a) shortage of skilled manpower and overall weakness of development
institutions; (b) very poor social conditions, particularly low nutritional
and educational levels; (c) a transport network which is inadequate to serve
the scattered population; (d) deterioration of agricultural production, which,
however, remains the only source of employment and income for over 75 percent
of the population; and (e) heavy dependence on one export, copper, which is
subject to wide and uncontrollable price fluctuations.
4.        Few countries suffered as much disruption and chaos as did Zaire
in the first 6-7 years of its independence. Political order and stability
were established in 1967 and only then could Government begin to promote
economic development. From 1967 to 1970, GDP grew by about 10 percent
annually (in real terms); government savings rose to US$110 million com-
pared with a deficit in 1966; and the resource surplus grew from US$15 mil-
lion to US$60 million. These favorable developments were due, in part, to
rising copper prices, which increased by over 25 percent between 1967 and
1970 (12 percent in real terms), and to an increase in copper production,
which rose from 317,000 tons in 1966 to 385,000 tons in 1970.
5.        In 1970-74 GDP growth slowed to about 5 percent per annum.    Possi-
bilities of growth based on unutilized capacity in the manufacturing and
service sectors gradually narrowed. Attempts by Government to transfer
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
foreign-owned assets in agriculture, industry and commerce to private or
public Zairian ownership, without adequate advance preparation, disrupted
the modern sectors of production and distribution. Further, the prevailing
exchange rate increasingly favored the expansion of import demand, while
wiping out most incentives for exports.     Particularly adverse pricing pol-
icies led to declining agricultural production and exports, and to further
diversion of resources to finance food imports for the growing urban popu-
lation. Lack of appropriate project evaluation and selection procedures
resulted in the initiation of investment projects whose return would not
help the servicing of the external debt contracted for their financing.
Moreover, these projects absorbed a large part of the country's limited
management resources, and reduced its capacity for further borrowing.
6.        In 1974, revenues from taxation of copper exports increased sub-
stantially as a result of record world prices for this commodity. The
increase in revenues encouraged the Government to step up its expenditures
significantly. The latter were also affected by high cost increases due
to steeply rising import and domestic prices. Reflecting the combined effect
of these factors, government expenditures rose by 66 percent during that year,
far beyond the resources that could be mobilized domestically, and the overall
fiscal deficit almost doubled, attaining 9224 million. Deficit financing,
together with credit expansion for the business sector and rapidly rising
import prices, led to a 28 percent domestic inflation rate, as well as to a
draw down of net international reserves of about 39 percent (from US$220.6 to
US$134.2 million). Thus, a combination of government policies and external
factors led to the severe economic and financial crisis which the country has
been experiencing since early 1975.
7.        To deal with the worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government attempted in early 1975 to reduce the budget deficit, to restrict
the expansion of credit and to allocate scarce foreign exchange to priority
payments, i.e., service of external debt, transfer of expatriate salaries,
and import of essential raw materials. In addition, the Government con-
tracted a loan for US$50 million from Abu Dhabi for balance of payments
support, and drew about US$90 million from the IMF, about one half of which
was secured under the 1974 oil facility.
8.         Given the difficulties inherited from the earlier years, these
measures could only have partial success. In 1975, expansion of credit to
enterprises was substantial, but shortage of raw materials, spare parts and
other essential imports, as well as continued high inflation, slowed down do-
mestic production and GDP declined by 2 percent in real terms. Unemployment
increased and consumption per capita decreased in real terms by about 8 per-
cent. In 1975, government expenditures were reduced by 21 percent in current
terms (50 percent in real value) to S585 million, but a larger reduction in
revenues resulted in a deficit of Z180 million, only g30 million less than the
record 1974 deficit.   Imports of goods and services in 1975 are estimated at



about US$1,830 million, about 2 percent lower in nominal terms than in 1974.
However, the current account deficit was, in current prices larger than in
1974 (US$795 million as compared to US$330 million), mainly because of lower
copper prices. Despite substantial amounts of capital inflows and accumula-
tion of arrears, the country's international reserves became negative by about
US$106 million in December 1975.
9.        In November 1975, the Government entered into consultations with
the IMF on a comprehensive Stabilization Program. The Stabilization Program,
agreed with the IMF in March 1976, provided for about US$150 million in IMF
assistance (first tranche, compensatory financing and 1975 oil facility),
in response to the Government's commitment to carry out a detailed program
covering public finances, credit, exchange rate, external debt, and price
policies. About US$100 million of the IMF assistance has already been drawn.
Of the remaining US$50 million, some US$20 million will be used for the re-
purchase of earlier drawings from IMF and US$30 million will be drawn by
the second quarter of 1977. The program's three main objectives are to re-
duce the expansion of domestic demand, to transfer real resources to the
export sector and to stimulate the growth of production. It covers a one-
year period and its implementation is monitored by a high-level Stabiliza-
tion Committee, comprising the Director of the Office of the President, the
Governor of the Central Bank, and the Ministers for Finance and Public Enter-
prise.
10.       In order to dampen the expansion of domestic demand, the Stabiliza-
tion Program provided for reduction of the budget deficit in 1976 to S60
million, to be financed principally by a 13 percent increase in domestic bank
credit. Salary increases, including government salaries, and expansion of
credit to enterprises and households, were to be limited. The budget implied
a nominal reduction in current expenditure in 1976 of 4 percent.
11.       In order to improve the balance of payments situation, the national
currency previously linked to the US dollar at the rate of Z 1 = US$2, was
pegged to the SDR on March 12, 1976, at the central rate of E I = SDR 1,
implying a reduction in the value of the zaire of 42 percent in terms of
the SDR. Foreign exchange controls were maintained in order to limit the
balance of payments deficit to US$100 miLlion at the new exchange rate. The
system of import controls introduced in 1975 has been retained, and deposit
requirements up to 100 percent were imposed on importers. Some firms, which
could not continue operation due to lack of foreign exchange, received a
special allocation and GECAMINES (Generale des Carrieres et des Mines),
whiichi is the country's main copper producer and foreign exchange earner,
was allowed to retain lhalf of its net foreign exchange earnings.
12.       It is too early to make a final judgment on the implementation
of thie Stabilization Program. It is estimated that the overall budgetary
deficit was about ;225 million in 1976, as compared with the target of 960
million set in the Stabilization Program. Of this deficit, about S105 mil-
lion would be due to lower revenue than foreseen in the budget and S60 million
to expenditures greater than were expected. Due to a 20 percent increase in
salaries in the public sector, to the high rate of inflation, and to the



- 4 -
effect of exchange rate realignment on expenditures in foreign currency,
total budgetary expenditures were estimated at about 27 percent higher in
1976 than in 1975. However, such an increase would imply a decline in gov-
ernment consumption in real terms. The low level of revenues is the con-
sequence of a lower than expected volume of exports, in particular of copper,
the low level of imports, the continued generally depressed level of economic
activity and of a tax rebate of US$64 million to GECAMINES, which was needed
to enable GECAMINES to continue its operations.
13.       Real wages are being eroded, especially affecting the lower income
workers.   Price increases in the first half of the year were of the order
of 50-60 percent. They were spurred by the Government's deficit financing,
the devaluation in March, the adjustments in official prices, especially of
agricultural producer prices, subsequent to devaluation, and finally by the
scarcities resulting from the lack of foreign exchange. Since then, however,
inflation appears to have slowed down. The Stabilization Program also aimed
at limiting expansion of credit to the private sector to 35 percent over the
previous year, and credit policies seem to have followed the program guide-
lines. The Bank of Zaire turned away from a policy of indirect controls and
reinstated credit ceilings by bank and by sector. Commercial banks were no
longer authorized to extend credit to enterprises with negative working
capital, except with specific Bank of Zaire authorization. The program
objectives of diversifying the export base and increasing production will
take longer to achieve.
14.       The balance of payments current account deficit is estimated at
about US$480 million in 1976, as compared to US$795 million in 1975. The
country's imports of merchandise are estimated to have been about US$1,050
million in 1976 as compared to US$1,350 million in 1975. Exports of mer-
chandise are estimated to have been US$1,120 million as against US$850
million in 1975.
15.       As part of the Stabilization Program, the Government had offered
in November 1975 to return 40 percent of the share capital of nationalized
firms to the original owners. On September 16, 1976 the Stabilization Com-
mittee, chaired personally by the President on that occasion, decided to
return the management and total ownership of Zairianized or nationalized
firms to their original owners provided that 40 percent of equity is offered
to Zairian citizens, chosen by the foreign owners, over a reasonable period
of time. In the energy, transport and forestry sectors, the Government would
reserve for itself the 40 percent share of equity to be allocated to Zairian
partners. In the plantation and ranching sectors, property will only be
returned if it is established that the Zairian owner has been a bad manager,
or an absentee owner. Compensation is being made available to owners of
properties whose return is either not possible or not desired. In the oil
palm sector, major plantations are being returned and in the case of Uni-
lever's plantations, for example, the Government has offered to take the 40
percent equity share reserved to Zairians. In the ranching sector, arrange-
ments are being negotiated to return 60 percent of the equity to previous
owners.



16.       The actual outcome of these developments cannot be predicted with
certainty. The Government's intentions are clear but the extent to which it
will be able to carry out its policies remains to be seen. Furthermore, it is
not yet known what will be the attitude of foreign owners and investors. The
preliminary reactions of the foreign business community seem to be favorable
and commercial credits in Europe (especially in Belgium) now appear more
readily available. Recent arrangements concerning Zaire's external debt
(paras. 19 and 20) should further improve the investment climate.
17.       Zaire's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding at
the end of 1975, including undisbursed, was provisionally estimated at US$2.7
billion, as compared to US$760 million three years earlier. The disbursed
portion of the debt at the end of 1975 was about US$1.7 billion, of which
US$55 million was owed to the Bank Group. Service payments falling due in
1975 amounted to about US$240 million.
18.       Zaire has been in default on some of its external debt obligations
since the end of 1975. Some service payments, including those to the Bank
Group, are being made. Exporters are instructed to deposit ten percent of
export receipts with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as a special re-
serve for debt servicing. It seems that this arrangement is functioning.
19.       Two sets of parallel negotiations have been conducted between Zaire
and its creditors on debt rescheduling. The first one, within the framework
of the "Paris Club," was with creditor governments and official guarantee
institutions, and was concluded in June 1976 with a general agreement to
reschedule over ten years all of Zaire's arrears for 1975 and the first six
months of 1976, plus the principal due in the second half of 1976. This
general agreement will be implemented through bilateral agreements with
creditor governments. The first such agreement was concluded with Belgium
in September, consolidating an amount of about $20 million. Agreements with
France and Germany were also finalized recently. The Paris Club rescheduling
of maturities falling due in 1975-76 alleviated Zaire's debt service by about
US$160 million according to Zairian sources and by US$200 million according
to creditor sources. Another meeting of the Paris Club, likely to take place
in the near future, is expected to consider rescheduling of the principal
amounts falling due in 1977.
20.       The second set of negotiations was with the private creditors and
banks. Between September and November 1976, four meetings were held. An
agreement was reached at the last meeting on November 4 and it provided
for immediate payment of all interest in arrears, amounting to about US$40
million. These payments were made as agreed. Principal payments are ex-
pected to resume shortly. In return, the bankers have agreed to use their
best efforts to obtain for Zaire a new line of credit of US$250 million
provided a new standby agreement is concluded between the IMF and Zaire,
such an agreement covering the second tranche and part of the third tranche
is presently being negotiated.



- 6 -
21.       To manage its public debt the Government of Zaire has also estab-
lished, on September 16, 1976, a new governmental agency (OGEDEP - Office of
Public Debt Management) charged with the task of: (i) servicing the country's
public debt out of special revenues and budget allocations; (ii) centraliz-
ing the records and management of loans and of all related transactions, and
(iii) advising government authorities on new loans, and on possibilities and
prospects for borrowings. The major element in the new agency's ability to
operate successfully will be the amount of foreign exchange made available
to it every year, and the mechanism through which this will be done. The
agency will collect a fixed percentage of export revenues. The percentage
would be equal to the estimated average debt service ratio over a period of
five to six years. In this way, during the years of higher-than-average
copper prices, the agency could constitute reserves to be used during the
meagre years.   To confront the years of low prices, the agency would have
access to a line of credit and/or to additional resources from the Central
Bank.  This system, which has been recommended in our economic reports and
advocated in our dialogue with the Government, would allow for a medium-term
planning of indebtedness.
22.       Zaire's export earnings and government revenues will continue to be
heavily dependent on the price of copper.    World copper prices are expected
to recover during the remainder of the decade, although in real terms they are
unlikely to reach the average attained during 1970-74. Zaire's export earnings
are expected, nevertheless, to grow by about 27 percent per annum in 1976-80
in current terms, and about 8 percent in real terms, mainly on account of
the maturation of current investments in agriculture and mining. Apart from
copper, Zaire has the potential to produce many commodities for which market
prospects are favorable: tropical woods, many agricultural products, and
several minerals, including petroleum.
23.       Gross capital inflows are tentatively projected at about US$500
million a year in 1976-80, compared with a yearly average of US$530 million
in 1973-75. The debt service ratio was 23 percent in 1974; with reschedul-
ing, it dropped to 14 percent in 1975, and, with the assumed capital inflow,
it would rise to about 17 percent in 1980. In view of the adverse effects
of the recent recession on domestic resource mobilization, and the efforts
the Zairian authorities are making with regard to the implementation of the
Stabilization Program, there appears to be a reasonable case for the financ-
ing of a large share of project cost, including some local costs, by external
lenders.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
24.        From 1969 through 1976, Zaire received eleven IDA credits totaling
US$174.5 million for transport, development finance company operations, water
supply, agriculture and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire.   In 1975, a Bank loan of US$100 million, which was made for



the CECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, cofinanced by the European Investment
Bank (EIB) and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank (LAFB), provided for special
repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The IFC,
which has a US$760,000 participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpe-
ment (SOFIDE), the development finance company, has expressed interest in
financing several projects in Zaire.
25.       To date, Bank Group assistance to Zaire has been limited compared
to the needs of the country. An important restricting factor has been the in-
adequate project preparation and implementation capability of the Government,
but this is slowly being overcome. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1976, and
notes on the status of ongoing projects. The Bank Group's share of Zaire's
total commitments is about 10 percent, its share of disbursed loans about
4 percent and of current debt service slightly more than one percent.
26.       Disbursements on IDA credits, which were slow for a long time, have
accelerated and amounted to US$53.1 million as of December 31, 1976. Project
implementation has been poor, due primarily to the country's inadequate sup-
ply of trained manpower and management capacity. For example, execution of
the First Education Project (1972) was delayed because of administrative
weakness, and faulty selection and coordination of foreign consultants. The
Government has asked for a reduction in the scope of the project which has
been approved by the Executive Directors (See Memorandum of the President
to the Executive Directors of December 15, 1976). Also, the technical assis-
tance component of the Second Highway Project (1972) was poorly implemented,
and the civil works were started only in 1975, due to the shortage of ex-
perienced local personnel, and delays in procurement and in the implementa-
tion of organizational reforms. On the other hand, certain other entities
which have benefited from IDA credits and Bank loans, the development finance
company (SOFIDE), the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) and GECAMINES, are
executing projects in an acceptable manner.
27.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution-building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established
in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The River Transport Project (1971)
helped strengthen the agencies concerned with waterways, i.e., the Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), the Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
and the Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM). The Railway and River Transport
Project (1975) continued this assistance and provided funds for a major
management training program for ONATRA. The First, Second and Third Hlighway
Projects (1969, 1972 and 1975) provided technical assistance to establish
and operate the Bureau of Roads. The Education Project (1972) included a
manpower survey to furnish data for a review of the educational system, and
the Livestock Project (1973) helped establish the National Livestock Devel-
opment Authority, which has since acquired responsibilities beyond the proj-
ect area.
28.       The Bank Group's main efforts are directed towards assisting in
the rehabilitation and improvement of transport, agriculture and education,



- 8 -
all high priority sectors in which the Bank Group should be able to make
a contribution to institution-building. Lesser emphasis has been given to
development finance company operations and water supply. This concentration
should assist the Government to design and implement appropriate policies
in these critical sectors. In most projects this will mean providing for
transitional technical assistance and training.
29.       Lack of transport is the major physical impediment to the country's
development. The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the improve-
ment of its river/rail arterial network, and the Association is helping to
finance both studies and new investments designed to extend and improve this
system. Roads are essential for inter-regional commerce, agricultural devel-
opment and as a feeder network for the river/rail system. Agriculture has
received insufficient attention from the Government. Preference should be
given in the short run to increasing agricultural production thru rehabilita-
tion. This includes the rehabilitation and expansion of large plantations,
while the capacity to implement rural development projects is established in
the Government. The proposed second livestock project is geared to small-
holders in the northeastern part of Zaire and will contribute to the rehabil-
itation of the livestock industry. A palm oil project, focusing on rehabil-
itation of existing plantations to meet rising internal demand, is also being
prepared. A project for increasing maize production is currently in the
identification stage. In education, there is a need for curriculum reform,
and emphasis on non-formal and vocational education, especially agricultural
training. In this area our objective will be to assist the Government in
framing appropriate policies through project formulation. In industry, we
propose to continue our support for the development finance company (SOFIDE).
A fourth line of credit of $10 million has recently been negotiated. In the
area of public utilities, our assistance would be directed toward assuring
broader access to these essential facilities and strengthening the executing
agencies. The Bank is also assisting the country through the UNDP Planning
Assistance Project, for which the Bank is Executing Agency.
30.       An expansion of the Bank Group's activities in Zaire will be pos-
sible only if substantial efforts toward improving the country's economic
management are initiated and sustained progress is achieved. The Government
is aware of the pressing need to take corrective action and is cooperating
with the IMF in a second program of economic stabilization to stabilize the
economy. The Government has also recently requested the Bank to convene a
meeting of the Consultative Group.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
31.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.    The country's
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in several climates, which make possible a variety
of cropping patterns. Approximately 75 percent of the population derives its
livelihood directly from agriculture, and much of the remaining 25 percent



- 9 -
is indirectly dependent on it for employment. Zaire also has the world's
largest reserve of tropical hardwoods, and fishing could be developed in
the eastern lakes.
32.       There are, however, a number of constraints:     the quality of soils,
which is only average for tropical Africa; the great distances over which
goods have to be shipped; the lay-out of the transport system, which was
designed to facilitate the flow of minerals and plantation crops to ports
and the return haul of imports; the neglect of interregional connections,
especially between north and south; and the low density of population in
rural areas, which compounds the problem of distance mentioned above. These
difficulties have been increased by the disruption of the transport and mar-
keting system since independence.
33.       Agricultural production in Zaire is organized along dual lines con-
sisting, on the one hand, of traditional cash and subsistence farming (cassava,
maize, rice, plantain, groundnut, livestock, coffee and cotton) and, on the
other, large scale commercial agriculture (palm oil, rubber, sugar, coffee
and ranching). Family labor is the main input in the traditional sector and
women perform the bulk of the work, including planting and harvesting. Land
ownership follows the tribal pattern in which the right to cultivate specific
plots is granted by the chief, but the crops produced are considered the pro-
perty of the farmer. Per capita cash income in rural areas was estimated in
1974 at about US$30 per year as against US$150 for the country as a whole. In
contrast, commercial agriculture consists mainly of large, capital-intensive
units employing modern concepts of crop husbandry and management. Palm
oil, coffee and rubber are the main export crops, while sugar and livestock
are produced for the domestic market.
34.       The Department of Agriculture is responsible for formulating agri-
cultural policies, supervising parastatal bodies and providing extension
services. The department is headed by a state Commissioner with a Director
General as its senior official. It has five divisions: Administration,
Agricultural Studies and Policies, Agricultural Production, Water and Forests,
and Animal Health and Production. The most important problem facing the
Department is a shortage of qualified staff.
35.       Until recently the Government gave low priority to the agricultural
sector and, as a consequence, it has deteriorated substantially since in-
dependence, causing among other things a massive rural exodus. Recently output
has declined even further as a result of the zairianization and nationaliza-
tion measures of 1973 and 1974 and production is now far below 1960 figures.
In 1973 the agricultural sector accounted for only 15 percent of GDP and in
1974 agricultural exports were only 18 percent of total exports. Production
of some commodities which the country used to export has decreased to the
extent that in a number of cases, such as palm oil and cotton, there will
soon be a need to import to meet local demand unless the current decline
is reversed. M4oreover, food accounts for 13 percent of merchandise imports.
The effects of this situation on the balance of payments have been serious.



- 10 -
36.       There are several additional problems facing agriculture in Zaire:
(a) extension and marketing services are grossly insufficient and costly
to develop in view of great distances and sparse population densities; (b)
there is a lack of competent management; (c) until very recently farm prices
were set at levels which provided no incentive to producers; (d) too little
attention is paid to rural education and training and, (e) applied research,
once a strong aspect of industrial agriculture in Zaire, has deteriorated to
the point where much of the planting material is of inferior quality.
37.       Corrective action is urgently needed.    The Government has stated
its intention to give increased emphasis to agriculture in order to achieve
foodstuff self-sufficiency, to increase agricultural exports and to slow the
rural exodus. Under the first Stabilization Program recently agreed with the
IMF, the Government committed itself to increase producer prices, and as noted
earlier, many producer prices have been raised, thus giving farmers an in-
centive to increase production. It also pledged under the Stabilization
Program to increase the share of budgetary appropriations allocated to the
agricultural sector, reorganize marketing agencies and methods, and improve
transport infrastructure.
38.       To date the Bank Group has financed only two agricultural Projects
in Zaire - a livestock project (Credit 398-ZR, for $8.5 million, of June 21,
1973) and a Cotton Rehabilitation Project (660-ZR for US$8.0 million) which
was signed in December 1976 and should be made effective shortly.
Livestock
39.       Zaire has considerable potential for livestock production but it
imports large quantities of meat products. In 1973, there were about 1 mil-
lion head of cattle, 0.6 million pigs, 2.8 million sheep and goats, and 9 mil-
lion chicken and other fowl. Cattle farming is practiced especially in the
regions of Shaba, Kasai Oriental, Kivu and in the sub-region of Ituri, which
have favorable grazing and animal health conditions and close consumer mar-
kets. About 600,000 cattle are raised by herdsmen, small farmers and ranch-
ers for meat and milk, and 400,000 head are kept by commercial ranches. In
1973, beef accounted for 9 percent (17,000 tons) of total fish and livestock
production (197,000 tons). Beef imports average 7,000 tons annually, bringing
beef consumption to 24,000 tons. Annual per capita meat and fish consumption
averages 8-9 kg, of whiich 1.0 kg is beef.
40.        In order to develop the livestock sector and to cut down beef
imports, Zaire commenced in 1972 a program to rehabilitate large ranches.
The National Livestock Authority (ONDE, Office National pour le Developpement
de l'Elevage) was established in 1973. In November 1973, the Government took
over all privately owned commercial ranches and their management was trans-
ferred to various public agencies and companies, including ONDE. The ex-
ploitation of smaller ranches was given to private individuals, while the
Government retained ownership rights. In 1973, large ranches accounted for



- 11 -
nearly 60 percent of domestic beef production (10,000 tons) while the re-
maining 40 percent (7,000 tons) came from the traditional sector. The Gov-
ernment now hopes to increase beef production both through the improvement
of existing ranches and through development of smallholder cattle production.
In September 1976 the Government announced the reversal of its nationali-
zation policy. Arrangements to return sixty percent of the equity of cer-
tain major ranches to their previous owners are being negotiated.
41.       The Veterinary Department of the Animal Health and Production
Division is responsible for animal health, animal production and meat in-
spection. It runs a number of livestock centers, controls stock movement
and has the responsibility for organizing and supervising markets. In Ituri,
the Department has a good basic organizational structure of zone clinics,
field dispensaries, dips and field housing on which to build its work program;
however, its staff is often poorly qualified and many of the facilities are in
need of repair.
42.       Cattle and meat are marketed through both public and private chan-
nels. The most important single buyer of meat is the state company "Societe
Generale d'Alimentation" (SGA) which has an import monopoly. SGA is the
principal wholesaler in Kinshasa and the urban centers of Shaba province
but is not yet active as a wholesale trader in Ituri. Private traders handle
most of the cattle trade - private butchers dominate the retail beef market.
Competition has been healthy for the local industry.
43.       An interdepartmental commission is responsible for setting maximum
producer and consumer beef prices. The Department of National Economy is
responsible for implementing price controls. However, these price controls
are only partially effective throughout the country, as cattle trade and beef
retailing is mostly in private hands. Official producer prices remained
unchanged between February 1973 and May 1976. Actual prices exceeded, how-
ever, official prices towards the end of the period. Depending on locality,
producer prices rose 10 to 40 percent above official levels, and retail prices
more than 100 percent. Failure of official producer price increases to match
cost increases have in the past discouraged investment in beef production and
the Government attempted to remedy this situation by tripling the official
prices as of May 1976. These prices were further increased by 30 percent in
March 1977.
44.       ONDE, a parastatal body functioning under the supervision of the
Department of Agriculture, was established with IDA assistance in 1973 to
promote livestock development, and more particularly to rehabilitate and run
specified public ranches on a commercial basis. ONDE's task was originally
to develop three ranches partly financed by IDA under the first livestock
project (Muhila, Mitwaba and Kayembe Mukulu) in the Shaba Region. Following
the Government nationalization program in 1973, ONDE was entrusted with
five additional ranches, the Bunia abattoir, the Kamina butchery and the
veterinary laboratories in Lubumbashi and Kinshasa. ONDE employs over 2,800



- 12 -
Zairian staff, of whom 22 have university degrees. As sufficient qualified
and experienced Zairians are lacking, ONDE continues to employ 25 expatriates
while it trains local personnel.
45.       As mentioned earlier, the First Livestock Project (398-CK) is
the only IDA agricultural project in Zaire presently under implementation.
It was slow in getting underway and has experienced management difficulties
resulting in cattle losses, slower than anticipated improvements in herd
growth and slow investment due in part to transport and supply problems.
ONDE, with IDA approval, has terminated its contract with a consulting firm
employed to manage the ranches and is now recruiting new staff on an indi-
vidual basis. Other serious problems have been delays in the payment of
Government counterpart funds, increases in costs and failure of Government
to adjust producer prices adequately and in a timely manner, resulting in
negative financial rates of return for the ranches. A supervision mission
which visited Zaire in March 1976 estimated that total Project cost calcu-
lated in zaires would double due to rapid inflation over the past two years,
and higher inflation rates forecast for the remainder of the project period.
We wrote to the Government about the failure to provide counterpart funds
and about the need to increase producer prices. The Government subsequently
increased prices to the level recommended by the Bank mission (para. 44).
These prices should provide an adequate return on capital and allow income
from sales of stock to meet increased project costs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The Appraisal report for this project, entitled "Zaire - Ituri Live-
stock Development Project" No. 1305-ZR dated February 23, 1977 is being cir-
culated separately. The present Project was identified by a Bank mission in
1974 and prepared by the Department of Agriculture with the help of consultants
and the Bank's Resident Mission in Zaire (RMZ). The appraisal mission visited
Zaire in September and October 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington in
the week of January 24, 1977. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Mukendi,
Director General of the Department of Agriculture. Representatives of FMC,
FRG, and CIDA participated in the negotiations. This Project is the second
Bank Group operation in the Livestock Sector in Zaire. A Credit and Project
summary is at Annex III, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is at Annex
IV.
47.        The Government wishes to improve smallholder production in the tra-
ditional livestock areas through the provision of improved veterinary animal
production and training services and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter
facilities. The proposed project would support this effort in four of the
five administrative zones of the Ituri sub-region which is largely an agricul-
tural area, one of Zaire's largest traditional cattle areas, and a densely
populated region. It would initially be directed at cattle improvement, but
would also examine and promote the improvement of other classes of stock. In



- 13 -
order to finish the large numbers of unfinished animals presently slaughtered
in the traditional areas, the Project would also provide for the development
of three existing ranches in the Ituri sub-region. The municipal abattoirs at
Kisangani and Bunia would be renovated. The production attributable to the
Project would meet future meat demand in the region and would also allow
increased shipment of beef to other parts of Zaire, mainly Kinshasa.
Project Description
48.       Over five years, the Project would:
(a) rehabilitate the veterinary and animal production ser-
vices in Ituri through the provision of cattle dipping
facilities, veterinary medicines, dipping materials, and
animal health dispensaries, and through the
introduction of animal husbandry and grazing-
management programs;
(b) improve marketing services, a stock route, and rural
slaughter facilities;
(c)  rehabilitate existing buildings at the Nioka research
station to serve as a training center and train Project
staff and farmers;
(d) develop 3 existing ranches, primarily to finish small-
holder cattle; and improve local breeding stock;
(e) improve existing abattoirs at Bunia and Kisangani;
(f) carry out studies related to the Livestock sector and
other studies necessary for the preparation of further
projects in the area.
Organization and Management
49.       Responsibility for management and execution of the Project would
be divided between an Ituri Project Unit (IPU) in the Department of Agri-
culture which would be responsible for the veterinary, animal production,
marketing and rural slaughter services, and ONDE which would be responsible
for the ranches and the large commercial abattoirs. The veterinary and
animal production services in Ituri would be reorganized. All Project
activities would be coordinated through a Project Policy and Coordinating
Committee. An Ituri Subregional Committee would advise the Project Policy
and Coordinating Committee. (Section 3.01 of Credit Agreement).
Veterinary and Animal Production Services
50.       The Project would provide dipping, inoculation, veterinary treat-
ment, veterinary and animal production advisory services for traditional



- 14 -
farmers throughout the cattLe areas of Ituri. Initial emphasis would be
placed on improving animal health. However, a reduction of stock mortality
and improvement in calving rate could result in a substantial increase in
stock numbers leading to overgrazing unless the pasture is improved and
off-take of stock is matched to grazing capacity. Therefore, development
of better animal production and pasture management methods would assume
greater importance as the Project develops. The primary objective would be
to provide dipping to cover 80 percent of the cattle in the Project area by
year five. As full advantages from dipping would only be obtained if all
animals in an area are dipped, the Government has agreed that compulsory
dipping of all cattle within a radius of 8 km of an operational dip or spray
race would be established. (Section 3.07 (a) of the Credit Agreement).
51.       The Government has also agreed that IPU would establish and main-
tain a revolving fund for purchasing dipping materials, drugs and inoculants
for sale to farmers. The Government would provide funds necessary to meet
farmers' requirements, would subsidize dipping materials during the initial
period, and would make up any shortfall in revenue from operating losses.
In the first three years dipping materials would be subsidized for 60 per-
cent of their cost. Thereafter, the full cost would be charged since live-
stock owners should be able to afford the program due to improved receipts
from stock sales. No head tax on cattle would be levied against cattlemen
paying dipping charges (Section 3.07 (b) and (c) of the Credit Agreement).
52.       The veterinary department would provide drugs and inoculants to
farmers at cost plus a 15 percent service charge. It would also run a com-
pulsory free anthrax inoculation program for cattle. Veterinary work would
be undertaken at existing clinics at zone headquarters and at the Nioka
Research Station, which is a large animal production and research station
administered by the Ministry of Agriculture and partly supported by German
aid. Efforts would also be directed at developing better grazing management
through grazing associations, stock control where necessary, improved cattle
husbandry and introduction of improved breeding stock. Nioka would supply
selected young bulls for sale to farmers. Methods to improve productivity
of other stock such as sheep, goats, pigs and poultry would be examined.
The Government will maintain expenditures for veterinary and animal hus-
bandry services and staffing in the project area at levels satisfactory
to the Association (Section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement).
53.       Depending on the rate of growtlh of livestock production in the
project area, a demand for credit from small farmers may be expected. The
needs can only be surmised at thiis stage. The project therefore includes
a provision of US$120,000 for a pilot program which is to be agreed with
IDA.
Abattoirs
54.        The municipal abattoirs at Kisangani and Bunia would be re-equipped
and run on a commercial basis. The Bunia abattoir which is already run by



- 15 -
ONDE would be renovated and extended to provide the outlet for surplus cattle
produced by the project. The Kisangani abattoir would also be rehabilitated.
Responsibility for the Kisangani abattoir would be shifted from the Veterinary
Department to ONDE, which is better qualified to run this type of commercial
operation. The Kisangani abattoir will be transferred to ONDE free of any
liabilities and the Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs will be run on commercial
lines, and separate accounts kept for each. It was agreed that fees would be
reviewed regularly by Government and ONDE and that the Government will make
available to ONDE such short term credits as are necessary for the working
capital requirements of the abattoirs (Sections 3.01 (b), 3.02 (a), 3.05 (c),
3.09 and 4.10 of the Credit Agreement).
Marketing services and rural slaughter facilities
55.        Provisions would be made for the improvement of rural stock mar-
keting facilities, and organization of regular markets at some 21 centers
throughout Ituri, rehabilitation of 40 existing small rural slaughterhouses
and renovation of an old, unused stockroute. ONDE's stock purchasing activ-
ities would be expanded both with regard to slaughter cattle for the Bunia
abattoir and unfinished cattle for the ranches. Fees would be charged at
levels sufficient to cover operating costs of markets, rural slaughterhouses
and stockroute and would be credited to the veterinary services (Section 4.11
of the Credit Agreement).
56.       The Project's improvements in the marketing system would allow an
increasing share of the cattle produced to be channelled through official mar-
ket places (from 55 percent in 1975 to 75 percent at full development). The
Government has agreed that stock marketing in Ituri would not be restricted by
Government limitations on the number of traders and that ONDE would purchase
cattle in competition with such traders. Because of the importance of secur-
ing a market for the production of the Bunia abattoir outside the Region, ONDE
would establish at the beginning of the project agreements satisfactory to the
Association with one or more marketing-companies under which they would
purchase meat from the abattoir at Bunia and transport it to Kinshasa and
other urban centers. (Section 4.04 and 4.05 of the Credit Agreement).
Ranches
57.       There is a need to finish the large numbers of young animals pres-
ently slaughtered in the traditional areas and to improve the quality of
meat sold for slaughter. In order to meet this need and to reduce the risk
of overstocking in some areas, the Project would provide for the enlargement
of three existing ranches (Kerekere, Asada and Dele) in the Ituri sub-region.
ONDE would operate an active buying program for the ranches, purchasing
immature animals from traditional producers for fattening. These ranches
are now owned and operated by the Office des Mines d'Or de Kilo-Moto, a state
company. Under the Project they would, however, be transferred to ONDE, which
would be given responsibility for their operation. The small breeding herds
on two of the ranches would be increased to provide herds large enough to



- 16 -
support minimum staffing levels. Half the breeding stock would be purchased
from Ituri smallholders and the Nioka Research Station and the rest would be
imported from neighboring countries. Ranch management would be improved.
Investments under this part of the Project would include the provision of
buildings, dips stock yards, firebreaks, vehicles, weighing scales, water
supply facilities, fencing, improved ground cover, and funds for the purchase
of heifers and steers.
58.       During the project implementation period the Ituri Project ranches
would be accounted for and funded separately by ONDe. Income from ranches
would be retained and used for meeting operating expenses and purchasing
cattle (Section 3.05 (c) of the Credit Agreement).
Training
59.       Unused buildings at Ngabu on the Nioka Research station would be
rehabilitated and turned into a small training center. The training center
would be part of the Project Unit. Initially emphasis would be placed on
training junior staff in animal production, animal health and extension
methods. IPU would also provide ancillary equipment for existing farmer
training centers in the area and funds for running special courses at them.
Technical Assistance
60.        Because of the lack of experienced and qualified personnel in Zaire,
the Project would provide 12 technical assistants for a total of 40 man-years.
Internationally recruited specialists would train Zairian counterparts and
would be phased out from years 2 to 5 of the investment period. A team of 7
men (24 man-years) would be provided for the Ituri Project Unit by the French
Ministry of Cooperation (FMC); it would consist of a team leader, 1 veteri-
narian, 1 animal husbandry expert, 1 extension and training specialist, 1
financial controller, 1 mechanical engineer, and 1 building specialist. An
expert would be provided for three years by the Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG) to develop and run courses at the Ngabu center and would be placed
under the authority of the Ituri Project Unit Manager. It has been agreed
that no less than one or two years before their departure the FMC and FRG
technical assistance staff would be assigned local counterparts who would
take over from them at the end of their assignment. ONDE would engage
directly or through a consultant firm a ranch general manager and CIDA would
provide two abattoir specialists. Because of recent expansion of ONDE's
activities as a result of the nationalization of the ranching sector, the
Project would also provide ONDE with funds for a Fianncial Manager in Kinshasa
to help manage its financial operations and organize and develop its account-
ing and control systems. ONDE would consult with IDA over the appointment of
technical assistance staff for the ranches. Appointment of the IPU Manager
and Deputy would also be made in consultation with IDA (Sections 3.01 and
3.03 of the Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Studies
61.       Consultant services would be required for project studies concerned
with such matters as pasture improvement, systems for improving stock produc-
tion and a final evaluation. In year 3, specialists would be employed to
consider and prepare a second phase of the Project which might incorporate
other agricultural subsectors.
Project Costs and Financing
62.       Total Project costs are estimated at US$16.1 million (including
some $580,000 of taxes and duties), of which approximately US$9.1 million or
59 percent of net costs represents foreign exchange requirements. The break-
down of Project costs is as follows.
-US$'000 Equivalent--      Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total   Exchange (%)
Veterinary and Animal Production           2,068    3,751    5,819         64
Markets, Rural Slaughterhouses
and Stock Route                            346      101      447         23
Training                                     225      444      669         66
Ranches                                    1,129    1,136    2,265         50
Abattoirs                                    272      446      718         62
Studies and Support Staff                     48      682      730         93
Subtotal                              4,088   6,560    10,648        62
Contingencies (price and physical)         2,971    2,515    5,486         46
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   7,059   9,075    16,134         56
Total costs, net of taxes             6,479   9,075    15,554         59
63.        Costs have been estimated on the basis of prices current at the
time of appraisal plus estimated price escalation to January 1977. Price
contingencies have been calculated at rates which take account of the very
high rate of inflation in Zaire. Project costs include incremental operating
expenses for the ranch component during the first three years of the Project
and for the abattoir component during the first two years. During these
periods revenues earned would be insufficient to cover all operating expenses.
64.       The IDA, CIDA, FMC and FRG contributions would finance 85 percent
of project cost net of taxes and duties and cover all the foreign exchange
requirements and US$4.2 million of local costs. The proposed IDA credit of
US$8.0 million would be on standard terms to the Government and would meet



- 18 -
the US$4.5 million of foreign exchange requirements not covered by CIDA, FMC
and FRG and US$3.5 million of the project's local costs. CIDA would provide
not less than US$3.3 million to finance the foreign exchange cost and 60 per-
cent of the local cost of the abattoir component (US$0.8 million), the ma-
jority of operating veterinary supplies for the IPU and ranches (US$2.1 mil-
lion) and most study funds (US$0.4 million). With the exception of the
capital expenditures on the abattoirs, which will be a long term loan on
terms similar to IDA's, the Canadian contribution will be on a grant basis.
FMC would provide an estimated US$1.5 million as a grant in the form of
technical assistance for IPU. FRG would provide approximately US$0.5 mil-
lion as a grant to Government to cover the cost of developing the Ngabu
Training Center for staff training and the cost of an education specialist
for three years. The Government would contribute the equivalent of US$2.3
million net of taxes and duties to meet recurrent local costs. Satisfaction
of the conditions precedent to the utilization of the contributions to the
project of CIDA and the French Cooperation will be a condition of effective-
ness of the Project.
65.       Pursuant to a financing agreement between the Government and ONDE,
the Government would grant US$1.8 million to ONDE as a contribution to equity,
and would lend to ONDE US$0.5 million to finance working capital requirements
for the first three years. The loan would be repayable in 20 years, with a
seven-year grace period, and would bear an interest rate of 11.5 percent per
annum. The Government has also agreed that it will make available to ONDE
the zaire equivalent of the loans, grants and contributions to capital semi-
annually in advance of requirements (Section 3.02 (a) (v) of the Credit
Agreement). As regards the provision of funds for IPU, the Government has
agreed that a special Ituri account would be established and that every six
months the Government would credit the IPU with budgetary allocations for
the next six months (Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement).
Procurement
66.       Procurement of vehicles (US$500,000), dipping materials, veterinary
materials and drugs (US$200,000) in orders exceeding US$50,000 equivalent
annually would be subject to international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible.
Imported cattle (US$160,000) will be purchased following the solicitation
of quotations from neighboring countries and advertising in such countries.
Technical assistance staff financed by IDA (for the studies and the Finan-
cial Controller and Ranch Manager posts) estimated at a total cost of US$0.7
million would be internationally recruited on the basis of qualifications
acceptable to IDA. All building construction and improvements (US$1.9 mil-
lion) would, due to their dispersed locations and diverse construction re-
quirements, be carried out by local tender or by force account where no
satisfactory contractors operate or where contractors costs are far in ex-
cess of estimates. Local purchasing would be done by competitive bidding
and through normal commercial channels using local producers. Fattening
cattle would be purchased by ONDE in Ituri.



- 19 -
Disbursement
67.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to meet:    (a) 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures or 75 percent of local expenditures for
(i) capital investment costs of the veterinary and animal production ser-
vices; markets, rural slaugherhouses and stockroute; (ii) specified oper-
ating expenditures (excluding personnel) of the Project Unit Services and
Ngabu Training Center; (iii) capital investment costs of ONDE's Kerekere,
Asada and Dele ranches; and (iv) costs of veterinary medicines, vaccines
and minerals for ranches; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for:
(i) management and technical assistance services to ONDE; and (ii) studies
and project evaluation.
Producer Prices
68.       The success of the Project depends on the implementation of an
adequate producer meat price policy. Because of the expected high rate of
inflation and slow reaction of beef production to price adjustments, minimum
producer prices should be reviewed regularly. The Government has agreed to
increase minimum meat prices to levels satisfactory to the Association. This
was done in March 1977. The Government has also agreed to maintain there-
after beef production cost indices satisfactory to the Association and to
review prices at least annually in consultation with the Association in
light of changes in these indices and in the price of imported beef (Section
4.06 of the Credit Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
69.        The main quantifiable benefits arising from the Project would be
a substantial increase in beef and milk production, with an estimated value
of B8.0 million (US$9.2 million) a year at full development. The milk pro-
duction would be consumed by Ituri families. The incremental beef production
which is estimated at the equivalent of 4,000 tons of carcass meat would be
equivalent to about 22 percent of Zaire's domestic meat output in 1975 and
would result in net annual savings of foreign exchange estimated at E4.0 mil-
lion (US$4.6 million) at present world market prices. About 80 percent of
the increased production would be attributable to the smallholder develop-
ment scheme while the remainder would come from the ranch rehabilitation
program. The Project would also have a number of additional benefits at
full development which are more difficult to quantify. These would in-
clude: (a) better nutrition for approximately,26,000 families through
increased milk and meat consumption in the Bunia area; (b) more hygienic
slaughtering of animals; (c) development of local expertise in livestock
production and better extension services through in-service training;
(d) demonstration of improved pasture and land management techniques to a
wide cross-section of cattle producers; and (e) the possibility of testing
extension methods for smallholder development schemes that, if proven suc-
cessful, could be used in developing other similar programs.
70.       The overall economic rate of return for the Project over 20 years
is estimated to be 29 percent. Foreign exchange cost and project benefits
were shadow priced to reflect more accurately the value of foreign exchange



- 20 -
in Zaire. The rate of return would not be particularly sensitive to changes
in costs and benefits. A 10 percent increase in costs would reduce the
project's overall economic rate of return by 3 points to 26 percent, while
a 10 percent decrease in benefits would reduce it by 4 points to 25 percent.
The relatively favorable economic rates of return reflect the important
element of sunk costs in all project components. If the value of presently
grossly underutilized existing facilities, equipment and services in the
Project area which will be used for the project are included as costs, the
rate of return would be 14 percent.
71.       Over twelve years, the project would raise average annual family
incomes of cattle owners from X300 (US$345) to %423 (US$490) in constant
prices of which incomes from cattle and milk sales and consumption would
increase from Z213 (US$245) to X336 (US$386); cash incomes would increase
from 9128 (US$147) to %260 (US$299) after payment of drug and dipping
charges. The Project will, therefore, provide an adequate incentive to
producers, especially since livestock is the main cash earning possibility
of small farmers in Ituri in the medium term. Expenditures by the Govern-
ment on services to farmers are expected to exceed direct revenues from the
project to the government by about X250,000 annually after year 5. On the
other hand, ONDE is expected to make substantial profits. These surpluses
will be reinvested in the livestock sector.
72.       The project presents a relatively high degree of risk, particu-
larly for the smallholder and abattoir components. Although farmers and
the Government have shown considerable enthusiasm for the project, the
response from farmers faced with increasing costs for dipping materials,
medicines, fees, etc. could be less than expected. To mitigate this risk,
it is proposed to concentrate for the first 18 to 24 months on the most
responsive administrative units which already have some facilities. The
introduction of experienced management and in-service staff training is
also essential to the success of the project. The main risk involved in
the implementation of the abattoir component would be the failure to adjust
fees regularly, and the chance that throughput could be lower than projected.
Although the ranches are somewhat less likely to encounter serious difficul-
ties, some risk would be involved if Government failed to adjust producer
prices regularly and if difficulties were encountered in purchasing fatten-
ing stock at the right prices. To alleviate these risks, the Government,
CIDA, FMC, FRG and IDA will undertake a formal, joint review of the program
at the end of two years.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire
and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text



- 21 -
of a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special features of the Credit Agreement
are set out above in paras. 56, 65 and 68.
74.       The following conditions of disbursement have been included in the
Credit Agreement (Schedule 1, para (3) of the Credit Agreement):
(a)  Disbursement for the veterinary and animal production component
would be conditional on the appointment of the IPU Manager, the
Veterinarian and the Financial Controller;
(b)  Disbursement for the ranching components would be conditional
on the conclusion of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement between
Government and ONDE; and the transfer of the ranches to ONDE
with all existing assets and free of liabilities and the
recruitment of a ranch General Manager.
75.       An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement) will be that the Association has
been notified that any conditions precedent to the utilization by the
Republic of Zaire of the contributions to the Project of CIDA and the
French Cooperation, have been satisfied.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 30, 1977






Page 1 of I, pages
TABLE 3*
ZAIRE                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  (THOU  RN2)--                   - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -  -  - - -  - - -  - -
---------------                         ZAlf~~~281(                            REFE RENCE CUUNTHRIES ( 1910)
TOTAL       2145.4                                          MOST RLCENT
RORiL.          ..                          960       19 70   ESTIMATE            LTRHIA0P IA     NI GE RIA  BRAZIL*
bNP PER CAPITA (USA)                         610.0      10 .0     150.0                 14. 0       1 70.0      54C.')
PO0PULA TIAON A NA0 AITA L S TATI ST IC S
POPULATION CMID-HR. MILLION)               16.6       21.6        20.7                24.6         66.2         92.A
POPULATION DENSITY
PCR SQUARE KM.                          I7.0         9.0O      11.0                 20.0         12 .0      I1I.0C
PEA SO. KM. AGRICULTARAL LANAU                        .                             30 .0           .        6 6. 0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRIJDE BIRTH) RATE C/THou, kV.          0 73        h6.8       4.5.2                50. 3       4 9 .A       3A8. 4
cR1102E183711 RATE C/THOU AV )          26.0       2 3.2       20.5                208.17       24 .5         9. 9
INF ANT MORTALiTY RAATL 1 /THUAI       1 04 .0/a      ..         ......                                     ll. 
LII L EXPECTA1NCT AT BIRTH CTRS)         39).5      1,2.0       ,.                  3 8.A        5 8. 5       5 9.17
GRUSS REPROAUCTIUN RATE                   ..          .    2.8    .                  0.9          3.3          2.6
POPULATIoN GROWlH RATE Cl)
(OT AL                                     ..        24         2.7                   .1          2.5         2 .9
URBAN                                      ..        3.7         8.0                 9 .4  A      5.0          5.;~
URBAN) PAPULAT [UN IX% Of TOT AL)          19.7        21 .6      26. ,                 9 .7        3 .T        5 6 .
AuE S TAUC TU tA  ( PCRCE NT)
0 10 14 TEARS                           4,3.7      4,3.1      1,4.2                4,3.0        4 4 .       4 2 .2
15 TO 64 YLARS                          52.5        52.8        53.0                54,3         53. 0       5 5. 0
64 TEARS ANT OAER                         3.8        2. 8        2.8                 2.7          2.-2         3.-0
AoEL OEPENOENET RATIO)                      0.s        0.9         0 .9                 0.s         C.9          0.Ai
ECONUMIC DEPLNOELACT    ATIO                1 .0 /0    1. 0/a      1 .1 la                         1l.2/a        1.5
ARILT PLANINING
ALLET'TOR, ICUMMULAT I Vt, THOU)U...                                                             1 2.9      2 50.2.
USE RS  lZ UP M ARR IED AUMENA            I..                      .                    .                      1.6
TOTA L LABLRIA UROCE ITHAOURANO          B0,oo.o     9800.0    1 0800).0..                     2 560 0.0    2 9630 . 0
LASOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 101             94. 0      76.0        7 7.0Al             8 5. 0       6 7.0        44 . C
UNLMPLIIHFL  (i OF LAtAUR FOACE)             .           .          .
IN4COME   OI SIRItOT IORI
O OF PRIVATE INCOME REL'A 8YT
hIGHLST    50 OF HROUSELHOLS               .           .          .....                                       3 5.2 /a
RIuRHEST e02 OF H0, SEHOLDS                .                                                        .        6 2.) Ia_
LON,E S T  2O 0  u  HUUSEH(LDLS                                                                                3 ....  .0 7) T
LUOE ST  430% U) HOUSERiOLAS                                                                                  I ....  0.) 7-a
O1STRIOOTION Of LARD) TWNLAGHIP
OgRED 3P TOIP too Of ORNERS                                                                                   45 .... 
O 094L 0 uTY SMALLESTI 10 0 OwNER S                                                                              I...  ...  . 5
HE AL TA ARE N UTR,IT1ION
POPULATION PLR PHTOILIEN                     ..     3014,0.0   27900.0 /c73300.0                2 4,b0.; I    I sio0.0
POPUJLATION PER NURSING PERSON               .      1 373.0    11 680.0 7E          2361,0.0 IL  5070.0 ff    3220.0 ILb
POPU L ATION PER HASFITAL 9E0                ..       2Q. 0         .                2930.0 -     22$.c        260 .01
P'Ee LAPITA ULPFLT OF -
CALORIES 10 OF REOOIREMENTSI            92.0        91...      93.0 /d              92.          91.0G       10 9. 3
PRO TEINt ( GRA MS PET 0091              33.01      33.0        33.07Td             69.J        baO. 0        64.0
-OF WrAICI, ANIMAL AND PALSE            .          E0I          .2 5 .0                       IA.E         39 .
DEATH RATE C/TROUT AuES 1-4...                                      ..
EAUCATI ON
ADJUSTED ERROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMATY SCHOUL                          1 2 .0      86. o       86.o  c1.                        3 4.,        A1.07 
SECONAARY SCROOL                          1.0       11I.0  ~    1,.0 72'             '..          4. C        208.3
TEAR,S Of SLHOOLICR0 PRUVIOEU
(FIRST EATD SECONRO LEVEL)                .         1 3.0       L. C                1 2 .3       1 4 .0       1 3.
V OCAT IONAL EIIRULLHENT0
It 0f SELONDARTI)                       27.C        10.Oa/     11 .0  et52                        A.C         117. 0
AOULT LITERACY RATE 101.                              13 .2       1 5.0                  .                      LB. 
ROUS 1N0
PERSONS PERk ROOM    (mAI                                ..                               .. 
OCCCUPEI EA0CWELLI NUS  l W(I900U
PIPEE WATER AZ)                            ...                    .....                                       7 3./c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I GP ALL DWELLLINGS)                                 .                                            ..         48.1V
r U RA L U WEL L INGS C ONN ECTIELb
TO ELECTRILITY COT                        ..          .           .                    ..                       .S
CONSUMF'TIU00
VAJIL0 RLCEIUARS IPEP THOU POP)             3 .0       3.    4.0                       6b.0u       213. 0       60.0
PASSENGER LObS IPER, THOU PUP)              S.C         3.0        4 .0                 2 .0         1.-0       2 5.03
ELECT HICIOT  CAWA/VO PEA CAPT            137.0      11,1 0      163.0                 21.0        208.0       40 1.j
NEWSfRINT (64/HR PLR CART).                             0.02?      0.05.                             0 . 3       2. 7
SELE NOUT ES A NOD0 AFINIT IULN .S   1,5 &EUVLRSEL



ASREFX I
Page 2 of I pagen
NOTES
Unlss  thewis  nted, data for 1960 refer     to any yea   between 1959 abd 1961 , for 19~70 between 1y64 and 1y70 and for Moot R-ost cotinate setwee
1973 sod 1975.
-0   Resel ha. beeo selected as as oh7eoti-e so-try for MIre because of the conpasbilitl of ole               and soturni r--ouc     codow-t of the two
...stel-, pluo the fast that Brasell hoe a high groth rate and Re at a hi:h-r jocose 1-1e.
'-AIRE         1060f   IA   1955-58, Africa    population only;      /h   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 ned ove      to ntotl labor forc..
1970     A   Ratio of poplotio-soe        15 and 65 and sor    to total labor force;      fi,  i6i-,66      /.  c-1ndin,G post-priosry teshnical
MOST RKENdT ERTIMbTR:       Is  Ratio of population ander 15 aod 65 and nos       to total labor force;      /b   An pe-cctabs of noploysent;
/5 1)72;    /d   1969-71 soerge;       In  1)7l;     I/f  ecndu;pont-peisa,y technical ncbooln.
i'THIOPIf      2197     Ia  1965-70;      /b  Isido       idal-o wed public hoa.lth nor.en.
NIGERIA        1970       Ratioh of population nodes 15 and 65 and onc        to total labor force;       /1bccntrd,nt all prscticiLn           So the country.
BRAZIL         1970     Ia    I ...sically octoe popalatios;       /b  Hospital p-ronnel;       Ac   Inside only.
R6, 1uisr    3, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INSDICATORS
Luod Are   (thou km 2                                                                   PoPnlati-n Per -ue-n      eso-   - Popoistiun dinided by number of practticig
Tnctl1   Total n-fw-    area c-,pefiig Rood ar-      and LIsiad water.                     -sIo sod fu1s graduate n-rse, '-tr-n-d" or 'c-tnfiedl           -u-e, and
Aae. -tCo tee-t ostisate of     gri-nlt-la see     usd teoprasily oe                 sonifry Pernu...i uith trsfiuij or copesjenc.
p-ru..o-tly fur ceops, psature, e-rht h hitben gS-de-           or to lifs            Pupniwtiuo por hospitwl bed - Populstin- dinided by nu-horfc huapitwi beds
cal low.                                                          ava~~~~~~~~~~ilahie no publif  wed Pli-at  genesl sod opeisli-d h-petI end
-ohabilitation center, -clad-n sasing hn... an-d es.btahiia..ets foe
CRP p-   capita (US$) - CNP per capito -sti-st- at curret assbt pein-,                    contudia1 and p--uetin- core
caicuisted by waecanr       .inmthod us Worid Rank Arias (1973-75 basis);             Par ..Pit. wuPplofp -ialoies (% of r-uarmets) - tuoputed firoasnagy
l9b0, 1970 and 1971 dota.                                                               equi-al-t of set fund auppyi-e -vilbe in.. cutry Per capita per day;
anscishble suppiies  -upeiiw   d-tfa production, Reports Ren        eap-rt,
Popala tfon, and eiis1 sctfaiica                                                          sod   hsogna In otock, out suppiies    -siude anfoI feed, seds, qoan.ti-
popsRatio   (oid-yr. siIIl-) - Aa of July firnt-       if sot on-ihleb,                   ricusd Is food pr-cea. fog and loosen- in distribotios; e-qufi--etn
__erge of -w sod- year c-iotes; 1960, 1970 sod 1975 data.                               wos    al-cd by FAO bood us physiuingi-li node fur sores 1-ticity
sod bssith     iondest,g,n   irunerlccltnpe...tu..e,   bo dy.cighi, woegsod
Popsuistius  ,' dcitt M-pe   gaeb         id-yea   popolstino 9P5 eqaur    kti-           setcrnniueo              uuaios,an       s   Inw    107 fc  wsto    t bu
seter(5       etra      fetuiars                                                        hi   tleosP.di.I.9 
Populaios den.uity - p.r non-r     be of lg      . isd - Computed as bhoo    for        Per caPita nupopl   of Protein (rson gee day) - Prtoinj cotent of Per-
agriculturI lend -nly.                                                                  caPita set -upply of food pee day; net ouppl ip of on       In dc~fiRud as
hbc,    roalroeto fur allautee             ns lno      by RUSDA Ec.onomi
nitwl statistiCS                                                                          0onsl S        -nner  -rund,    _ura  iofa    Ilnua.ce- ~f h0 genesIf totaf
Crude birch etst per thoossod, averag      - A-ouI lice bierba pee thouwand                P-tnioi  Per day, and 20 gr-o    of a-i-I a-d pulse protein, ci ubich
of nid-y        pouain      e-year   reitiosetic averges coding is 1960 and             10 grace should he anima     pr-tiu, ches     standards ar   IortbI      ths
i9R  n  ie-ya    vraecdngi           95   otet      eesesisc.                     of 71 g-am   of total p-ut-     and 23 gene   of -oia1 pr-rto s       s
Crude death -tat   pr ehau.o.      average__'  - An-ui deatha per thonuand of oid-         averge fur thc acrd, proposd by FAQ In the Third acrid Pond Siney.
yea   papulati-s; r...-v.araitbotic          - avrae  endi,gito i960 sod 1970 and     Fo    aia2rti           susnfieasnladple             - Prte Isuppip ly o    fund
fi_y-    ..o . avrge codingt   1971 feenstrcnt        a,tint.dee                                  rnsianadpio                sgasprdy
infotosraitty ras        /thou)    A- Anua  d-atb  of infasta nodes on    pear of       D-ath rte i/thou) seen 1-4 - An-os       deaths per thou..ud tage grop
aePer thon..a.d Ico   bietbh,                                                         1-4 pear, tu childre      In thio age group; augg-tdans indicator If
life enc ctsy at birth lyre)     A-Acrge o..sher of pear    of lifi   - snwinf0        mlutiin
at htcth; usu ally fins-year acrg-       -edfog in 19bO, 1970 and 1975 foe
d-nlopiog c--tr_o.-                                                                   Eduratiin
Crcasrprnducti-natc- A-crgeounhe- of Ive d-uyhtera                 wnn     ill          Adjustd    -ieoiio.nt scepriewry anhouR - Eo-11-et uf uli aye_s
hear in her sums I reproductive perid if she enp-rfn--          preset ago-             P-reotuge of prenaryoehuni-age        nyi  -e1,soides childc- aged
specific fetIsisty' raes     uusI      I fieyear  -nag- ending en 1960,                 h-il yours hut adjusted for differet 1-egthn of prtcary eduain
1.I970 an  175fr      enlping coutrie..fu                                                     cuo ttinah       ....nrnui educattun    onuie         sapetee   10071.
Pouaion_ growth rac     (7.) - total -     pemnud annua  geouth sates uf sid-            se...sue.   pul      r  bei~  . Iuoothc  toafc         scho-ag.-
year PIPsstioo for 1950-60, 19b0-7C0 aed 1970-375.                                    Adjastad   -o11i.s.et ratio    -seodary school      C.Enpatrd as abov;
Fupulat_n   growth rate (7. - orban -iCnn ted like growt        rote of Ltota              nancoday educutinor-qunoas lean.t four pears of apyroned peto-y
P'oP'u1i-tu, diff--ct definitions of urban arasmy affect euspasa-                        fItretio      prn_d_ngeeral       vcutio_     or Iteacher_ rieg
but  fdta  -eog enunele.                                                          IR no.r. tic  foe papilo of 02'tn 17 yearn uf ae         repner
UbnePuiP stio-  (7 . of tu1) - Ratio uf -eb- in total populate-;                       ccc, sne urncenr iy       -1nlded.
differet defioiti-no      f traeaos.ay.f.t pbailiity of data                          Ceur   ofsh-oio      Pr-idod (fi-it and secod       i1-1i) - Totl1 year of
_ng cats le.                                                                              chn-ilog, atuccuo,dary In..eol,    . vctiu...i inutroctico nay be Pa-
Ag5R!t-t-1 ip .... t) - EhiidrnI (0-u 4Yer)           wukig-age i15-64 yean,               ta.ys..peepenidd
wod retired (5yasadoe)uprccgsofid-pa                             yuuato. oItna                     enro Reot    . of s__cdar) _ V_ctewi ..       ni-tetuttun-  -1c Rde
Age depeodeney satin - Ratiouf pupulat-e andes 15 -od 65'aedp uc_          incrhinsi, industial or orbe                      progro    which operate e-depo-dtly o
those of age   15 th-ugh bi.                                                            asdepartoont     cIf sIods      nttio
Ecu....Ic deep-do..cy ratio   gato o     populatiu   sod-r 11 und 65 nod   A0r           dui.   itrc     rae17    i-Leae        duts    abnIn to rod and -site)a
to the  Iab-rforc-isag       g",P of 15-64 year.                                        p-c-vocgorf tetai adILt yey1at-c aged 15 year            and uver.
Fanily pliaoeto-acsctnre (no..nlatfie, thou~) - Conoativ- -cb-r of
cceyptorn nI bith-cuotrol devices nodes auspices of         atiu..al isfip              ouin
Planning program   sIn. c....cptine                                                   Fers     Per sno   (urban) - An--go eonb- of person        yes sno   go
Pacilr PIiDsotn-user       (7. of ea rned oe        P--ctstagn   of yarned                 oc-nyid    ...c.snicoal duoiiengs eo orhun aras       -,aciigo  -nclde
unmo  ofhc ld--iraig w%e(15-44 poses      hbu awe b'isib-onteol d. ovcos             n,,-yrna...  nt  t          -oneaad nocc  ied p_rt.
to all oneiodnoe       inon     age grop.                                             Ocuid-elnnuiha                 ie     u    (7.) - OvepFtd cen-eteo-a
jlligt   i uba   and ror1     -ara  ilhuot insde or ectuide piped
Eneloyne..                                                                                 ano    aeoiaa         pereenag    of ail -eeeeyld dilit,s
Tocal 1abur foete (thousand)      E- incoonicail     Pciv   p.....s i.c...eg             Irvst       lerit        7  f wi    - duigng) - Cueeniuafduilog            cith
acd focsad        noiyd       a   oidin.    bunwvs,o            is    t.              electriiyi       i~Lvig quarter   an p--oet of toLtal deeliogeino rbu_
Labor fern    In agricolt-r   (7. - Agricaitu...I labor frce (in fa-ong,                iu...l d-oil-eg   c-eoted     In eectricity   (2. - Cosyoted   as shov  One
forsr,hautlng and fiobsog) as peen...tugs of total labor forc.                           -nr1 d-cliings   -ly.
ineplovod (7. of labor foros) - in-pioyed or        .... ally defined anp-cron
'h' aro ali, and ufillg-    t  cube al  job, not nO. a job e  ag-      da'y,          C...snontino
-eoui-d our of a jo b,    _od aering aus    furanycfin        oiseP.et                Radio  -ees  ... iP-e rhea pup) - All tYP-s of re--or         foe radio bred-
not   .n..eding use .ob    ca-o-eenpshebewocotrict d-ue in                              catotogneaiy            1iC yes t~houand.cf popgoirto,eru           oicne
sen  vfiv sarstcs  aspl  srves,copaoer  aenloycnenoroue         enefec, dots fc       rec-nt y-oae na     .ct be  _op-sble sinc    snt
cu...crisa abeuisbhd li-cJsig.
mIan    dieteibotione- Pe--tage of priv-te inecee (bo th In cuo a0,nd hind)             P           -aeoe  ar (pot tine pup)  P- neng-r cars  -upri-n        c-uer  scat-
-e-ived by richest 5%, richest 207., poorost 207., and pooreti07.of                      fog Ices than eiht person, -ueludne wnhnis--, hearse           and niltatrs
El-eirifity (bh/yr ye, cap)      A- Ano1   -ons  pt-o of ind-strial, oe
Distrsbcti-n of land     --hreip - P--etages of Rand ownd by -aenl-het                      -cciui, publin and pri-nte eLecticity 1kin bi..utt hours per caPita;
10% and poorest R07. of land ownrs-gleliy basd en production data, -irh-t af11oan- fur l...                                                                     i
grids hat a1.ialg foe inypsetan        nporis of ooteicirty.
gH-1tb   sod Ontritto-                                                                  Sowneriot (hgv      e   cp      o   napi ,ta _nvual cnupeni          iu
Population ePs pby-ci-o - Population divded by ...sb- of p-acti-n                          etifosted f-a do....tic p-d-ie-o Plus net inPorit        of no...pri-r
physli.i.. q-slifiRod fros a nedins1 -ch.ol atue-n--ity inne.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     _                         1960 -69          1970 -74          1975
GNP at Market Prices          3593.6      100.0                        ..                5.3          - 0.7
Gross Domestic Investmnent    1290.0       35.9                        ..               10.3            1.6
Gross National Saving          272.4        7.6                        ..               16.3          - 3.4
Current Account Balance        845.8       23.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         1024.2       28.5                        ..               10.0          -14.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         1830.0       50.9                        ..                8.0          -11.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %                 Mln.       %                   US$%
Agriculture                    589.0     16.2
Industry                      1081.2     29.8
Services                      1962.4     54.0
Unallocated
Total/Average
363-2.6/ 100.          .0.0                .0                  .-        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government -                          Central Government
L Z  Mn.)   -% of GDP                     (Z Mln.)%o G-                     
1         74  1974      1971-73                1974       1974        1571- 73
Current Receipts                  671.0         36.5         32.5
Current Expenditure               579.0         31.5         27.2
Current Surplus                    92.0          5.0       -iU                     ..         *
Capital Expenditures              316.1         17.2         10.7
External Assistance (net)          83.4          4.5          3.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1970         1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
T.llion z    outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                   231.3        261.5       298.4       440.3       608.1
Bank credit to Public Sector             99.7        130.6       160.5       188.5       327.5       445.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector            42.9         60.3        91.6       137.9       234.3       326.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        24.3         25.8        27.2        29.6        33.2        31.4
General Price Index (1970 a 100)        100.0        108.1       122.7       136.6       174.6       230.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index 3/                                 8.1
Bank credit to Public Sector             13.4         31.0        22.9        17.4        73.7        36.0
Bank credit to Private Sector            53.8        40.6         51.9        50.5        69.9        39.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ CDP at factor cost.
2/ Includes budgetary and non budgetary Central Government operations.
3/ Retail price index.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974      1975                                               US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)-
Copper                              693.4   62.2
Exports of Goods, NFS        1123.4   1633.8   1024.2               Cobalt                              77.4     6.9
Imports of Goods, NFS       1285.2    1861.0   1830.0               Diamonds                            58.8     5.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   -161.8   -217.2   -805.8               Coffee                              56.9     5.1
Palm and kernel oil                  36.0    3.2
Interest Payments (net)       -68.02/I -110.2   -50.0
Workers' Remittances         -124.2   -129.8          3/
Other Factor Payments (net) -   0.4   -  8.6   -162.0-1
Net Transfers                 151.2    145.4    172.0                All other commodities              191.7   17.3
Balance on Current Account -203.2      330.4                              Total                       1114.2   100Q0
Direct Foreign Investment       -        -        -                EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              429.4    507.8    649.2                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization               172.2    268.4      95.0
Subtotal                    5 72    239.4    554.2                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1684.2
Capital Grants                  -        -                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               *-
Other Capital (net)             -        -                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               7.6      4.6     50.8                                          I/
Increase in Reserves (+)       61.6   - 86.4   -240.8              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reserves (end year)     265.8    200.8     216.2
Net Reserves    (end year)    220.6    134.2   -106.6                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           14.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      48.0    101.0
of which:  Petroleum       48.0    101.0
Exports                       0.7       -
of which:  Petroleum        0.7      -        ..         IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1976 Million US$
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       IBRD        IDA
From June 23, 1967 to March 11, 1976         Since March 12  1976Outstanding & Disbursed121.4
~~~~~'--        uindisbursed                         6.           2.
us $ 1.00 z   Z7.5                            SDR 1.0 = Z1.0     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       lTUT         i /4.T
Zaire 1.00 =    US $ 2.0
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Investment income
3/ Includes an undetermined amount of workers' remittances
not available
not applicable
EACPIT, March 29, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A.  STATEMENT OF BAN.rK LOANS ANTD IDA CREDITS (As of December 31, 1976)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                         Amount in US.$ Millions
Number      Year       Borrower        Purvose           Bank     IDAZ7  Undisbursed
Prior to      Congo and       Transport        91.6
June 1960     Otraco          Infrastructure
Two credits fully disbursed                                        11.0
255        1971        ZAIRE           River Transport     -        7.0      1.9
271        1972        ZAIRE           DFC II              -       10.0      2.6
272        1972        ZAIRE           Education           -        6.5      5.7
252        1972        ZAIRE           Highway II          -       19.0      6.5
398        1974        ZAIRE           Livesttock         -         8.5      4.7
163        1971        ZATRE           DFC III             -       10.0      1.3
1090        1975        ZAIRE           Gecamines       100.0         -      67.6
536        1975        ZAIRE           Highway TII         -      26.o      21.2
571        1975        ZAIRE           Rail-River  I       -       26.0     25.1
625        1976        ZAIRE           Water Supply       --       21.5     20.4
624        1976        ZAIRE           Education II 3/     -       21.0     21.0
.660       1977         ZAIRE           Cotton Rehabili- 3/-        8.0      8.0
tation
TOTAL (less cancellations):             19176     17T .5   189.0
- of whicri has been repaid:          91.6
TOTAL now outstanding:                  100.0     171.5    189.0
Amount sold:                  54j4
-of which has been repaid  5h.h
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA:         100.0     171.5
TOTAL undisbursed:                       67.6     121,4    189.0
v/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium             3/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                               Type of           Amount in US$ Millions
Year           Obligor              Business       Loan       Equity     Total
1970     Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE)       DFC             -         0.76       0.76
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales:                                   -        0.76        0.76
Total commitments now
held by IFC:                                 -        0.76        0.76
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 255    River Transport; US$7 Million Credit of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of (a) reha-
bilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and (e) a feasibility
study of the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the
mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports.    The river agencies have been set
up as autonomous public entities, and most goods and services provided under
the project have been procured or contracted.     The completion of the re-
habilitation of navigational aids on the Kasai River will be carried out
by RVF on force account.   After a delay of about one year, resulting from
a lack of local currency payments by the Government, construction of two
buoy tenders for the RVF has recommenced. The three agencies involved
in the project, especially ONATRA, continue to suffer from adverse finan-
cial positions and institutional weaknesses. The original Closing Date,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
December 31, 1973, was extended twice to provide additional time for recruit-
ment of technical assistance personnel, for the works related to the rehabil-
itation of markings on the Kasai River and for reconditioning of two dredgers.
Credit 271    Second DFC; US$10 Million Credit of September 24, 1971; Effec-
tive Date:  February 1, 1972; Closing Date:    June 30, 1977
Credit 463    Third DFC; US$10 Million Credit of February 20, 1974;
Effective Date:   July 25, 1974; Closing Date:   December 31, 1977
A first line of credit to SOFIDE was made in 1970 and was fully
disbursed.   The second line of credit to SOFIDE was made one year after the
first, since SOFIDE's volume of operations was three times that forecast. The
credit was not fully committed until December 1973, due to the availability to
SOFIDE of other resources. A Bank staff member has been seconded as deputy
to the Zairian General Manager for three years. The third line of credit to
SOFIDE is almost fully committed. SOFIDE's operations have been conducted in
a satisfactory manner and a fourth line of credit of $10 million was recently
negotiated.
Credit 272    Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1977
The project consists of constrlCtion and rehabilitation of three
teacher training colleges, a demonstration school and four technical second-
ary schools, a management study and a survey of manpower requirements. At
the end of 1975, implementation of the project was more than two and a half
years behind schedule and a cost overrun of 150 percent over the appraisal
estimate was likely. Since the cost overruns could not be financed on the
government budget, the Government asked for a reduction in the scope of the
project and this was approved by the Executive Directors (memorandum from
the President to the Executive Directors of December 15, 1976). As of the
end of February 1977, all contracts for civil works had been signed and
about 80 percent of all the contracts for furniture and equipment had been
awarded. Rehabilitation work on one school in Kinshasa was completed. The
implementation of the project is showing progress, but procurement of con-
struction materials from abroad and internal transportation are a cause of
delay. The management study has been completed. Disbursements have reached
US$1.1 million and are expected to increase rapidly. The project is continu-
ing to be monitored closely. The Closing Date will be postponed to December 31,
1979.
Credit 292    Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of Marchi 23, 1972; Effec-
tive Date: September 11, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project, jointly financed by IDA, UNDP, CIDA, FAC and USAID,
consists of a comprehensive program to strengthen highway administration and
maintenance, and to rehabilitate high-priority roads. All project components,
except rehabilitation works, have been completed. The main institutional ob-
jective of the project, the establishment of the Office des Routes (OR) as



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
a countrywide organization responsible for highways, was achieved. Twelve
contracts, awarded in early 1974 for rehabilitation of about 1,600 km of
roads, have progressed much more slowly than anticipated, due to the failure
or weakening of several contractors, delays in local payments and shortage
of critical supplies. By June 1976, about 740 km of road had been resur-
faced, that is, about 46 percent of the revised total. Delays have led to
cost increases and, due to these cost increases, some contracts have had to
be cancelled or revised. The OR has prepared a revised project completion
plan, taking into account the latest estimates of final cost and financing
requirements. The revised program would provide for rehabilitation of 1,265
km and for improved maintenance of remaining roads. It would be completed by
the end of 1977. The present Closing Date of December 31, 1977 may have to
be extended.
Credit 398 Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973; Ef-
fective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is intended to develop three government ranches in the
Shaba region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) and also provide substantial assistance (US$1.3 million) for training
and the preparation of future agricultural projects. The project had a slow
start and is experiencing difficulties, in particular an increase in costs,
estimated at about 35 percent in US dollar equivalent as of June 1976, the
failure of Government to adjust producer prices resulting in a negative rate
of return and delays in the payment of government counterpart funds. ONDE
has been dissatisfied with the consultant firm's performance and has termi-
nated its contract. It is now recruiting staff on an individual basis.
We wrote to the Government about the availability of counterpart funds and
about the need to increase producer prices. The Government subsequently
increased prices to the level recommended by the mission.
Loar 1090    Mining Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of March 8, 1975;
Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project consists of expanding the production facilities of the
state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an
additional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year
of cobalt in the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Project execution is well
underway. As a result of transport and supply problems, and lack of foreign
exchange, it is expected that copper production in 1976 will fall short of
the projected output.   However, the Government has already taken steps to
allocate to GECAMINES the necessary foreign exchange. Due to rising copper
prices, the availability of stocks, windfall profits on sales of cobalt,
and an exemption from supplementary export duties, the company is expected
to make a profit in 1976. Nevertheless, GECAMINES is likely to experience a
US$55 million cash shortfall in 1977, which may impede project implementation.
The transfer of marketing responsibilities to SOZACOM, a state-owned company,
had caused delays in the financing of GECAMINES shipments.     SOZACOM's activi-
ties are being closely monitored.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit 536 Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Loan of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project, which is a continuation of the Second Highway Project,
is designed to build up an efficient highway administration, to initiate
sound highway sector planning and to assist with the rehabilitation of a
key road. It consists of the following elements: (a) provision of tech-
nical assistance to the Bureau of Roads; (b) organization of a pilot high-
way maintenance scheme; (c) establishment of a countrywide logistic support
system for highway maintenance; (d) rehabilitation of the gravel surfaced
Kabinda-Kindu road (about 600 km); (e) a highway traffic survey; and (f) fea-
sibility studies affecting about 1,500 km of roads. The total cost of the
project, estimated at US$40 million including taxes, is financed jointly by
IDA, UNDP, the Belgian and French governments, and the Government of Zaire.
Consultants are carrying out a feasibility study of the Kikwit-Kananga road
and consultants have been retained to assist with the establishment of the
logistic support system for highway maintenance. The maintenance program is
progressing satisfactorily. A contract has been awarded for the first part
of the Kabinda-Kindu road and the Government intends to carry out work on the
second section on force account. The Government has asked for modifications
in the project to allow it to start a ferry maintenance program, pay for addi-
tional technical assistance out of the Credit and make an early start on a
second regional, pilot maintenance project. This would require certain
changes including the elimination of a major road feasibility study and a
reduction in the road works on the Kabinda-Kindu road. These proposals are
under consideration.
Credit 571 Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project provides: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA, includ-
ing a comprehensive training program; (b) finance for a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railroad im-
provements and track renewal; and (c) funds for additional river markings
on the Kasai river, port studies and a preliminary engineering study for
the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Progress is being made in the award of con-
tracts for some of the river craft provided under the project and the rail-
way rehabilitation works are proceeding slowly but satisfactorily. The Gov-
ernment has asked for some changes in the list of goods to be procured and
this is under consideration. All agencies of ONATRA are limited in their
operational capacities by a spare parts shortage, resulting from the lack
of foreign exchange. Some relief is in sight from the promise of recently
allocated foreign exchange from stevedoring receipts at Matadi Port and spe-
cial bilateral assistance. The Matadi-Kinshasa port development study is
nearing completion. In spite of recently approved tariff increases, ONATRA's
financial situation will continue to be critical until firm action is taken
to control and to reduce costs.    Its operating losses are    expected
to reach some Z15 million in 1976. Declining traffic, collection problems,



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
lack of discipline and general instability compound ONATRA's financial prob-
lems. ONATRA has recently embarked on a Plan de Redressement designed to
improve the financial situation and has appointed an experienced General
Manager, We are carefully monitoring the execution of this plan.
Credit 625 Water Supply Project; US$21.5 Million Credit of June 18, 1976;
Effective Date: August 4, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, engineering consultant services for the six cities, a comprehensive
training program and feasibility studies for additional water supply projects.
REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water supply and electricity
in Zaire, is the executing agency. The project, which is cofinanced by ADB
and BADEA, will finance approximately half of REGIDESO'S investment program
for 1975-78. Project execution is satisfactory. All contracts were recently
awarded.
Credit 624 Second Education Project - US$21 Million Credit of December 28,
1976; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The project is intended to provide facilities for training rural
primary teachers and agricultural technicians. It comprises: (a) construc-
tion, equipping and furnishing of five rural primary teacher training insti-
tutes; (b) rehabilitation and repair of six agricultural technician training
institutes and one higher institute of agricultural studies; (c) a fellow-
ship program to aid the efficient functioning of the project institutions;
(d) the evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project institutions;
(e) the carrying out of preinvestment studies in preparation for a further
education project. After the project was presented to the Executive Direc-
tors in April of last year, contract negotiations between the Government
and the private architectural firm previously designated for the project
broke down. The Government then proposed that the Centre National de Con-
structions Scolaires (CNCS), a school design unit within the Ministry of
Education, do the architectural work and, on our request, submitted a plan
for the strengthening of the CNCS so as to enable it to carry out its obli-
gations. The Credit was signed following the approval of this plan by the
Bank.
Credit 660 Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 Million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will help the Zairian Government to rehabilitate cot-
ton production in the Equateur region through reorganization of the buying,
transporting and ginning operations of the National Textile Fiber Authority
(Office National des Fibres Textiles, ONAFITEX) in the project area. It
also includes rehabilitation of the network of roads linking the production
areas. The project is to be executed by ONAFITEX and the Office des Routes.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT'PROJECT
CREDIT AND'PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of.Zaire
Beneficiary:      Department of-Agriculture and-Office National
de,Developpement.de l"Elevage (ONDE)
Amount:           US$8 million
Terms:            Standard
Project           1) Rehabilitation.- of veterinary and animal production ser-
Description:     vices in Ituri; 2) improvement of marketing services, a
stockroute and rural slaughter facilities; 3) rehabllita-
tion of buildings at-a research station to serve as train-
ing center to-.train Project staff and farmers; 4) develop-
ment of three:-existing&ranches to fatten cattle and improve
local breed-ing,stock-;F.5) improvement. of existing.abattoirs
at Bunia..and.'Kisangani; 6)-execution of,studies-related to
the.Livestock sector and,studies necessary for the prepara-
tion.of further pro.jects-in-the Project-area.
Project Costs:                            --US$'000 Equivalent----     Foreign
Local'   Foreign   Total   Exchange (%)
Veterinary and Animal.Production.         2,068-    3,751    5,819-        64
Markets, Rural Slaughterhouses.
and Stock Route.                           36W,      10.1.    447         23
Training.,                                  225>-     444-.    669-        66
Ranches                                   1',il29w,!  1,136  2,265.        50
Abattoirs.               ,                  2 -.27:2z.w  446.  718&        62
Studies and Support:Staff                   --48,-'   682'     730         93
Subtotal                             4,0O88&:  6,560   10,648-       62
Contingencies (price and physical)        2.9-71    2,515    5,486         46
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  7,059    9,075    16,134        56
Total costs net of taxes             6,479,   9,075    15,554         59



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated
Disbursements:       FY          1978    1979    1980     1981    1982     1983
(US$'000)
Annual           480   1,340    1,560   1,840   1,920      860
Cumulative       480   1,820    3,380   5,220   7,140    8,000
Financing Plan:                    Foreign Exchange    Local Currency     Total
(in US$ million
equivalent)     IDA                    4.5                 3.5           8.0
CIDA                   2.7                 0.6            3.3
FMC                    1.5                  -             1.5
FRG                    0.4                 0.1            0.5
Government                                 2.8 1/         2.8
Total                9.1                 7.0           16.1
Procurement:      Procurement of vehicles and equipment in orders exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent annually would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding. For imported cattle, quotations
would be sought through newspaper advertising in neighboring
countries. All building construction and improvements would
be contracted through local tender or executed on force
account. Technical assistance staff for the ranches would
be internationally recruited on the basis of qualifications
acceptable to IDA. Local purchasing would be done by com-
petitive bidding in accordance with local procedures which
are satisfactory.
1/   Including taxes and duties.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Consultants:                                                           Man Years
Financial Manager             ONDE Headquarters           5
A Ranch manager               ONDE ranches                3
Two abattoir specialists      ONDE abattoirs
(financed by CIDA)       6
Seven specialists:   team     IPU (financed by FMC)     23
leader, veterinarian,
animal husbandry expert,
extension and training
specialist, financial
controller, mechanical
engineer, building
specialist
Training specialist           Nioka research station
(financed by FRG)        3
Total                                               40
Economic Rate
of Return:       29 percent
Estimated
Project
Completion
Date:            June 30, 1982
Appraisal
Report:         A report entitled "Zaire - Ituri Livestock Development
Project" (No. 1305-ZR, dated February 23, 1977) is being
distributed separately.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
Project Identified by Bank Mission: February 1974
Preparation by: Government of Zaire with help of consultants and
Resident Mission in Zaire
Preparation Report submitted to IDA: June 1975
Appraisal Mission departure: September 1975
Negotiations: January 1977
Special Bank Implementation Actions
NONE
Special Conditions
1.   The Department of Agriculture would be responsible for the project.
Responsibility for management and execution of the Project would
be divided between a special Ituri Project Unit (IPU) in the
Department of Agriculture which would be responsible for the
veterinary, animal production, marketing and rural slaughter
services, and ONDE which would be responsible for ranches and the
large commercial abattoirs (Para. 49).
2.   Compulsory dipping of all cattle within a radius of 8 km of an
operational dip or spray race would be established (Para.5O ).
3.   In the first three years dipping materials would be subsidized
for 60 percent of their cost and no head tax on cattle would be
levied on cattlemen paying dipping charges (Para. 51)*
4.   Kisangani abattoir would be transferred to ONDE free of any
liabilities (Para. 54).
5.   The Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs would be run on a commercial basis
and separate accounts kept for each. Fees and prices would be
reviewed regularly by Government, and Government would make such
adjustments, or such other arrangements as shall be necessary to
cover the costs of the operations. (Para. 54).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
6.   Government will make available to ONDE such short term credits as
are necessary for the working capital requirements of the abattoirs
(Para. 54).
7.   Fees would be charged at levels sufficient to cover operating costs
and would be credited te the Veterinary Services (Para. 55).
8.   ONDE would establish at the beginning of the project agreements
satisfactory to the Association with one or more marketing companies
under which they would purchase meat from the abattoir at Bunia
and transport it to Kinshasa or other urban centres (Para.56).
9.   The ranches would be accounted for and funded separately by
ONDE. Income from ranches could be used for meeting operating
expenses and purchasing cattle (Para. 58)
10.   Twelve internationally recruited Technical Assistance Personnel
would be provided under the project through FMC (7 in IPU), FRG
(1 in Training Component), CIDA (2 abattoir specialists) and
direct hire (ONDE's Ranch Manager and Financial Director). Main
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Association. One or two years
before their departure, technical assistance staff would be
assigned local counterparts (Para. 60).
11.   Budgetary allocations for the functioning of IPU will be made in
semi-annual advance payments into a special Project Account (Para.
65).
12.   Government will make equity contributions, loans and grants to ONDE
semiannually in advp"ce of requirements (Para. 65).
13.   Government has established satisfactory minimum producer prices at
the outset of the project. Government will review these prices
at least annually in consultation with IDA and in order to assist
in future price revisions, the Government will establish and
maintain an appropriate index satisfactory to IDA which would
reflect beef production cost (Para. 68).
14.   Government, FMC, CIDA, FRG, and IDA would undertake a review of the
program after two years (Para. 72



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
15.   Government would maintain present and proposed staffing and
levels of expenditure for veterinary and animal husbandry
services (Para 52).
16.   Disbursement for the veterinary and animal production component
would be conditional on the appointment of the IPU Manager,
the Veterinarian and the Financial Controller (Para75 (a) ).
17.   Disbursement for the ranching and abattoir components would
be conditional on the conclusion of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement between Government and ONDE and the transfer of
ranches to ONDE with all existing assets and free of liabilities
and the recruitment of the ranch General Manager (Para 75 (b) ).
18.   The satisfactory implementation of the conditions required by
CIDA or FMC as conditions of their participations is an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Para 76).



IBRD 11916
40                                   330         -                                      3110            O,ozber IC75
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
ITURI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJtm I
SUDAN
*    DIPS IN ORDER
*    DIPS AND SPRAY RACES TO BE CONSTRUCTED OR RENOVATED
A    MARKETS WITH SCALES
*    MARKETS TO BE CREATED OR IMPROVED
+    RANCHES TO BE DEVELOPED                                            kj
PROPOSED STOCK ROUTE
MAXIMUM CATTLE DENSITY AREAS
MAJOR ROADS
®    SUB-REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                       K
O    ZONE HEADQUARTERS
O    TOWNS
RIVERS
ZONE BOUNDARIES
SUB-REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
-   .~- ~ REGIONAL BOUNDARY                             A , ,RU
- -   - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
° 10     23 0  O   9 3   50                             AL  AP....e><2 ;
KILOMETERS
MILES                           0<i         ,          j   E     E   E     R 
Ii~~~~~~~~~~CE
350 ,                                                        ZMO, RIA* ¢.UGANDA
'   I ~~~~~~~~~I
.ttVq4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I W 
Z?            0?j,                                                                    .   A3A\ 
=:X~~~~~~~~~ N



