DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Pubtic Uæ               FILE  COPy
Report No. 94a-AL
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
May 29, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and
North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may net be published, quoted
or cited without Ban,k Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accopt respons}bility for the
accuracy or complbteness of the report.



1/
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          - Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$0.24                    D A 1.00
US$1.00                =  DA 4.09
US$244,346                 DA 1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric System              British Imperial/U.S. System
1 kilometer (km)       = o.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =  2,204.60 pounds (lb)
i cubic meter (m3)     = 1,000 liters (1)
1 liter (1)            =  0.88 British Imperial quart (qt)
2/
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCEOM                  -  Bureau Central d'Etudes
d'Outre-Mer
DI                     -  Directorate for Infrastructure
DPUD                   -  Directorate for Planning and
Urban Development
LNTPB                  -  National Laboratory for Public
Works and Buildings
-MPWC                  - Ministry of Public Works and
Construction
SERA                   - Company for Maintenance of
Roads and Airports
SETEC                  -  Societe d'3tudes Economiques
SONATRO                - National Company for Roads Works
SNTR                   - Societs National des Transports
Routiers
SNTV                   -  Societe National de Transport
de Voyageurs
UNDP                   - United Nations Development
Programme
ADT                    - Average Daily Traffic
hp                      - horsepower
pass-km                 - passenger-kilometer
ton-km                 - ton-kilometer
DEMOCRATIC AI<D POPULAR GOVEKRDMENT OF ALiERIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Adjusted as of February 28, 1973.
2/ Acronyms of organization names relate to French titles
of organizations as used in Algeria.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGH'AY PRRJECT
ALGERIA
CONTENTS
Page No.
SUr'ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............  ........    i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........        .................
Il.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..........................         1
A.   Description ................1.............
R.   Policy, Planning, and Coordination  .......
III.   HIG. .AYS     ..............................            4
A.   The Netw.ork        ...............                4
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic  ....       4
C.   Administration ........ ................... .      5
D.  Planning  ..............                           6
E.   Financing  ................................        7
F.   Engineering ..............................         7
G.   Construction ............          .      .  , ,   8
H.   Maintenance .       ............................   8
I.  Training . ..... .......................           8
IV.   THE PROJECT .....................                       9
A.   Description ...... .................               9
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange
Component .......    .......................     12
C.  Execution .......      .........................   14
D.   Financing     ...................   ............  14
E. Disbursements   .               .15
V.   ECONOMIC EVALIJATION ......    ................. ..    15
A.   Main eenefits and Beneficiaries ......... .       15
B.   Roadworks .......     .........................   16
C.   Other Projects Elements ..................    17
VI.   AGREEMENTS RREACHED AND RECOMEF.NDATION    .....    18
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. Ludwig (Engineer),
D.S. Jovanovic (Economist), and Mrs. P. Valad (Editor).
rTr. V. Wouters (Economist) assisted.



CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.  Sunmarv of Railway, Port, and Civil Aviation Statistics
2 .  Classified 1,ighway Network, 1971
3.  'totor Vehicle Fleet, 1965-71
4. Motor Vehicle Fuel ConsumDtion, 1965-71
5.  Expenditures and Sources of Finance on National and
Regional Roads, 1965-71
6.  Revenues from Road Users, 196O-71
7.  Type of and Cost Estimates for Road Improvenents and Construction
S. Existinsz National Road Sections for Feasibility Studies
9.  N'.e National Roads and Related Bypasses of   owns and Villages
for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
10.  Conposition and Age of Maintenance Vehicle Fleet
11.  Cost Estim-ate for Feasibility Sttudies and Detailed Engixeerîng
12.  Cost Estirtate for New Maintenance Vehicles (Tneltuding Spate Parts)
13.  Cost Estimate for Lahoratory Equipient
14.  Average Daily Traffie and Vehicle Orerating Costs
on Project Road Sections
15.  Economic Return of Road ImDrovement Works
A.NEX ES
A.   Estiriated Schedule of Disbursements
3.   Basic Data and Assumptfions Used in Econonic Evaluatton
CHARTS
Organlzation of the 7inistry of Public 1!orks and Con.tructioht
Organization of a Provincial Directorate
MAPS
Transportation Infrastructure
Transportation Infrastructure, Northern Region`



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Algerian transport system is concentrated in the northern re-
gion, while many areas of the southern desert region have no transport facil-
ities and are completely inaccessible. The system comprises: 79,000 km of
national, regional, and local roads, serving about 256,000 vehicles; a 4,000
km railway svstem, including a section of the international line between Rabat
(M4orocco) and Tunis (Tunisia); 6 major ports and a small fleet of seagoing
ships; 3 international and 10 secondary airports as well as 2 national air-
lines- and gas and oil pipelines.
iM.       Previous Government Development Plans accorded relatively low prior-
ity to developrent of transport infrastructure. But the 1974-77 Plan, now in
preparation, is expected to emphasize transport development. Furthermore, to
formulate an appropriate development strategy for the transport sector in the
next Plan, the Government has initiated a conprehensive transport study by
consultants.
iii.      Efficient and reliable roads to transport goods and passengers are
needed to support the Government's plans for further development of agriculture
and industry as well as for movement of people and goods, especially between
the nost important production and consuMption centers. With many roads
deteriorated because of lack of maintenance and delayed improvement works,
the present road network does not meet these requirements and transport costs
are high. Through this project, the Covernment aims to improve certain major
roads and road maintenance and to strengthen highway planning.
iv.       A project identification mission, which visited Algeria in 1971,
recommended that highway improvement, certain new construction, and main-
tenance should be given priority. The elements of this project are designed
to carry out these recommendations. The proj.ect includes road improvements
and construction; feasibility studîes and detailed engineering for further
improvements to existing roads and for construction of new roads; a study to
improve highway maintenance and review road user charges; purchases of high-
way maintenance vehicles and laboratory equipment, together with a program
for staff training; and technical assistance to help the Directorate for
Infrastructure in the Ministry of Public Works and Construction establish a
highway planning office.
v.        The project cost, including taxes, duties, and contingency allow-
ances, is estimated at US$33.1 million, including a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$18.5 million (56%). The cost of the road improvements and
construction is based on bids received for some sections and on detailed



- ii -
engineering, and estimated unit nrices for similar weorks for the other
snctions. Costs of the preinvestment and maintenance studies and technical
assistance are based on contract estimates with consultants for similar work
in Algeria and on man-month rates.  The cost of maintenance vehicles (including
spare parts) is based on recent prices for similar equipment, and that of
lahoratorv equipment on recently subnitted offers under international compet-
itive biddinc.
vi.        The Directorate for Infrastructure, assisted by consultants, will
be responsible for carrying out the project over three years. The Directorate
wM''l appoint qualified counterparts to work full-time with the consultants
undertaking the maintenance study and the technical assistance. In 1972, the
Government awarded construction contracts for four road sections after inter-
national competitive bidding, and work began in the middle of that year.
Thereafter, it received b±ds on six additional sectionsi ',nder international
competitive hidding; work on four of these sections started in early 1973 and
the remaining two will begin in mid-1973. Bidding and contract award pro-
ce(lures followed by thle (G,overnment for these sections, which have high eco-
nomic priority, were in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procure-
ment".
vii.       The Bank loan will finance the foreign exchange cost of the project
(US$18.5 million); the Government, the local cost.  The Governnent has asked
the Bank for US$1.8 million in retroactive financing for the roadworks and the
feasibility studies of the Algiers-East expressway, which are underway. This
amount is included in the project.
viii.           The road improvements and construction will yield satisfactory
benefits. Quantifiable benefits from lower accident rates and road maintenance
costs as well as from savings in travel time and vehicle operating costs are
estimated to yield a 35% overall Economic Return, wfth rates for individual
sections varying from 15% to over 50%. Sensitivity tests show that, assuming
a 15% increase in construction costs combined with a 25% reduction in benefits,
the overall Economic Rettirn weould still be 22%. Purchases of vehicles for
road maintenance are limited to replacements for overage vehicles (10 years
and older): these replacements are justified by savings in repair and fuel
costs and are essential for more efficient maintenance. Benefits from the
preinvestment and maintenance studies as well as from new laboratory equipment
and technical assistance have not been quantified.  But these elements are
clearly justified since thev will heln the Covernment improve project prepara-
tion and executîon as vell as road maintenance and nlannîng, and nrovide ad-
ditional on-the-job training for the counterparts to be appointed to the
consultants.  Another unquantifiable benefit is that the project will help
the Government redress the lag in hirhway development in recent years. This
is essential if developrment of the road networ!- is to keep pace with the
increase in road trans.iort demand and the expected growth of the economy.



- iii -
ix.       Based on the exuected econoiic life of the road sections to be
inproved or constructed, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$18.5
million to the Governnent of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
for a 25-year term, including 5 years of grace.






APPPAISAL OF
A HIIINGAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In Mfarch 1971, the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria asl;ed the Bank to help finance a highway project. A project iden-
tification riission visited the countrv in 1971 and recommended that highway
improvenents, certain new construction, and maintenance should be given pri-
ority. Based on this recommendation, the Government has prepared a US$33.1
million project for Bank consideration. This is the Bank's first project in
the transport sector since Algeria became independent in 1962.
1.02      This report is based on:  information provided by the Directorate
for Infrastructure (DI) of the Ministry of Public Works and Construction
(TPWC); feasibility studies carried out by the French consulting firm Bureau
Central d'Etudes d'Outre-Mer (BCFOM); and the findings of a September 1972
appraisal mission of the Bank composed of Messrs. G. Ludwig (Engineer) and
D.S. Jovanovic (Economist). Mr. V. Wotuters assisted in preparing the report
and Mrs. P. Valad edited it.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Descrintion
2.01      The transport systen has been largely determined by the country's
geo-raphy. Algeria is divided into two distinct regions by the desert line.
The northern region, with about 20% of the land area and 90% of the 14.6
million population, is economically more advanced than the southern region,
with 80% of the land area and 10% of the population. The northern region
comprises the narrow but fertile coastal strip as well as the semi-arid
valleys and rugged mountains of the Atlas chain, while the southern region
includes the vast desert that is part of the Saharan tableland. The trans-
port svstem is relatlvely well developed in the northern region, whereas
few communications routes penetrate the desert and many areas are inacces-
sible. Construction of new land routes is difficult and costly in most of
the cotntry because of the extensive mountain and desert areas. Discovery
of large gas and oil deposits in the Sahara in the mid-1950's led to con-
struction of several pipelines from the deposits to the Mediterranean Sea.
2.02      The transport system consists of:  about 79,000 km of national,
regional, and local roads serving 256,000 motor vehicles; 4,000 km of rail-
ways, 6 major ports and a small fleet of seagoing ships; 3 international
and 10 secondary airports and 2 national airlines; and gas and oil pipe-
lines. The road and rail networks connect all major Algerian cities and
regions, and also connect Algeria with Tunisia and Morocco. Table 1 sum-
marizes railvay, port, and civil aviation traffic statistics.



- 2 -
2.03      After Algeria became independent, traffic declined while invest-
ments in transport infrastructure continued. This resulted in some excess
capacity of the infrastructure. Since the mid-1960's, hoeiever, Algeria's
economic growth has accelerated and has generated an equally rapid expansion
in transport demand. Vhile investmenits continued in certain new projects,
rmainly connected with petroleum exploration and production and the Trans-Sahara
road, expenditures for improving and maintaining the existing road and rail
network as well as for purchasing new equipment for road and rail maintenance
were relatively low. As a result, sections of the road and rail network have
deteriorated and are now below standard for the traffic they carry. In addi-
tion, the vehicle fleet and rolling stock is old. As a first step toward
ii,iproving the situation, the Governnent is according high priority to main-
taining and improving the existing infrastructure and purchasing new equipment.
2.04      Railways are operated by Societe Nationale de Chenins de Fer Alge-
riens, an autonomous public agency over whicli the Governrent has considerable
influence. The network consists of about 4,000 km of track, including 2,700
km of standard gauge and 1,300 km of narrow gauge. It comprises an east-west
axis linking Algeria with Rabat (Morocco) and Tunis (Tunisia), with branches
to the coast, and three lines into the interior, includîng an electrified ore
line of 320 km. Several track sections are in poor condition and require
rehabilitation. Locomotive power and other rolling stock are partly obsolete
and insufficient in capacity.
2.05      Traffic on railways, both passenger and freight, has been increasing
since the mid-196O's and is expected to continue expanding with further de-
velopment of the economy. Most freight traffic is ore and phosphates. Traf-
fic is mainly concentrated in the northern region.
2.06      The Government is aware that additional rollîng stock and increased
track rehabilitation are urgently needed to avoid decreased efficiencv, and
it is supporting a project prepared by the railways for this purpose. This
project has been submitted for Bank consideration and was discussed by a
mission in February 1973. Preparation is being completed and the project may
well be a suitable basis for a Bank loan.
2.07      Algeria's main port, Algiers, handles most of the country's general
cargo imports and exports. Other important ports, usually highly specialized,
are: Oran for general cargo imports; Arzew for crude oil and liquified natural
gas exports; Annaba for steel and iron ore exports; and Skikda for exports of
ammonia. refined petroleum products, crude oil, and liquified natural gas.
The ports are managed and operated by a National Port Authority under the
Ministry of Transport. Port design and construction, however, are the respon-
sibility of the lfPIWC. Most funds allocated for port development in the Four
Year Plan 1970-73 are for expanding ports that handle petroleum, natural gas,
and ore exports. the ports concerned are Arzew, Annaba, and Skikda, where
major port facilities are heing constructed or are planned to be constructed
shortly. The Government has asked for Bank assistance in expanding Arzew
port, which is needed to export large quantities of liquified natural gas,
and is preparing a project which may be appraised toward the end of 1973.



- 3 -
2.08      The country has 3 international airports (Algiers, Annaba, and Oran),
10 secondarv airports with paved runwavs, some smaller local public airports,
and numerous private airports mostlv built by oil companies. Two airlines,
Air Algeria and Societe de Travail Aerien, offer international and domestic
flights. Although air transport has been increasing most rapidly and plays
a vital role, especially in serving the more isolated centers, its total
share in the transport market is still modest. In recent years, expenditures
have been essentiallv for maintenance works and strengthening of runways at
major airports.
2.09      Algeria has an extensive network of pipelines for evacuating gas
and oil from the Sahara to several Mediterranean ports. Oil production in
Algeria increased substantially after 1956 following discoveries of m~jor
fields in the Sahara.  Production of oil is estimated at 50 million m 3annual-
ly. Natural gas sales including exports, amount to about 27 billion m annual-
ly and are expected to rise sharply, primarily as a result of the contract
with El Paso natural gas for exports to the United States. An additional gas
pipeline is being constructed from the Rassi R'mel field to Arzew port.
B.   Policy, Planning, and Coordination
2.10      Since independence in 1962, Government policy has been to develop
the economy along socialist lines, under strong central control and with most
of the transport sector in the hands of public enterprises. The main instru-
ments of development policy have been the three- and four-year Development
Plans as well as the ordinary and investment budgets. All public enterprises
are expected to transfer their surpluses to the budget; in turn, all their
investments are financed from the budget.
2.11      The Ministry of Planning is responsible for preparing the Develop-
ment Plans. The current Plan is for 1970-73; a new Plan for 1974-77 is being
prepared. The Ministry of Planning prepares the overall plan; the Ministry
of Transport drafts a plan for the transport sector based on proposals by
all modes. With respect to roads, the investment proposals are prepared
by the 1"rPWC. These proposals are discussed by the three Ministries together.
In previous Plans, the authorities accorded relatively low priority to develop-
ment of transport infrastructure, but they have indicated that in the new
1974-77 Plan they intend to emphasize transport infrastructure investments.
2.12      Sound preparation and execution of the Plan depends on continuous
liaison among the various ministries, directorates, offices, and enterprises
involved, particularlv to ensure adequate coordination among all transport
modes. In the past, coordination was relatively simple, but it is becoming
increasingly complex as the transport system is developed. For example, road
and rail access to ports as well as to urban areas must be integrated and road
and rail transport as well as operations of neighboring ports must be coordi-
nated to achieve optimum efficiency. Available data indicate that the distri-
bution of freight traffic between road and rail transport is reasonable; about
90% of rail freight is bulk commodities carried over relatively long distances.



- 4 -
2.13      The Government is aware that transport planning and coordination
need to be improved and, in 1971, it initiated a study of the transport sector,
which was carried out by the consulting firm EASAMS, Ltd. (United Kingdon).
The first phase of the study covered a survey of transport policies and
recommendations for immediate improvements; the second phase will cover an
analysis of transport demand until 1980 and propose guidelines concerning
policy changes and long-term investment policy.  The Government has agreed
to exchange views with the Rank on the results of the study.
III. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      Northern Algeria has a well developed network of six major routes.
Three run east-west, between Morocco and Tunisia, parallel to the coastline,
and three run north-south, perpendicular to the coastline.  Only a few lower
class routes penetrate the vast, arid Sahara Desert in the south. The clas-
sified network consists of about 79,000 km of national (Routes Nationales),
regional (Chemins de Willayas), and local (Voirie Communale) roads (Table 2).
In addition, an unclassified network of tracks penetrates the Sahara, but its
exact length has not been measured.  About 45% of the classified network is
paved, with asphaltic co;.crete on the most heavilv-trafficked roads and sur-
face treatment on those with less traffic. National and regional roads have
deteriorated because they have been poorly maintained and improvement works
have been delayed.  This deterioration has resulted in high transport costs.
r'.   Characteristics and Crowth of Traffic
3.02      The motor vehicle fleet grew at an average annual rate of about 6%
between 1965 and 1971 (Table 3).  About 256,000 vehicles were operating in
the country at the end of 1971, a large part of wehich were overage.  Vehicle
density in 1971 was 1 vehicle per 57 inhabitants, which is rather low compared
to other countries with about the sane per capita income as Algeria.  A small
plant (Berliet-France) assembles trucks and buses at the Societe Nationale de
Constructions Miecnniques.  It is a state enterprise, supervised bv the Ministry
of Industrv and Power, and produces onlv about 2,500 units annuallv. No
.pecific measures protect domestic vehicle assemblv. The only regulations
on vehicle usage are that:  cars must be inspected twice a year and trucks
once a year, and axle loads must be limited to 13 m tons; the Governnent en-
forces these regulations.
3.03      Traffic is largely concentrated in the coastal area, with most
national roads carrvin- Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of more than 1,000 vehi-
cles (ahout 20% over  ..:n tons).  Traffic volumes are especially high (ADT
beteeen 3,000 ancd 15,000 vehicles) near the capital of Algiers in the north,
near the nnT industrial areis of Oran and Arzew in the west, and near the
Constancillne-Sdk(!1a--Annal)a triangle in thie east; this reflects the dominant
posi-;on of those areas in the country's economy.  Throughout the year, the



- 5 -
DI of the !TWC makes regular traffic counts, which it uses for highway plan-
ning.  Past growth rates of thp vehicle fleet and fuel consumption (Table 4)
as well as exnected transport demand resulting from further economic devel-
opment indicate that road traffic may grow over the next 5 to 10 years at
an average annuial rate exceeding 8%.
3.04      The Societe National des Transnorts Routiers (SNTR) and the Societe
National de Transrort de Voyageurs (S,HTV), two state enterprises, control road
freight and passenger transrort. Their operations expanded over 20% annually
betweeen 1968 and 1971.  The Ministrv of Transport determines road transport
tariffs.  Precise information on the performance of SNTR and SNTV and the
distribution of traffic between road and rail is not available because data
are lacking. More adequate information is expected to be assembled after the
transport study has been completed (para.2.13).
3.05      S7TR was cstablished in 1967 as a seini-independent state enterprise,
wi.th financial and mana,erial autonomv, under the Ministry of Transport.
In 1971, it had a fleet of relatively new vehicles, with a total capacity of
13,000 m tons. SUTR's performance could be improved, particularly for special
freight, and its capacitv should be increased. SINTR acts as a comnon carrier,
nandling about 90% of total public road freight; private operators carry the
remaining 10é%. SNTR is the chiannel through which 50% of all public freight
and 75,'% of private freight must pass. These percentages have been fixed
arbitrarily and not according to econoric criteria; they are being examined
under the transport study (para. 2.13). Under Govermnient regulations, private
owners are limited to oinership of 3 vehicles or 60 ri tons. Their fleet
consists of relatively old vehicles, with a total capacity of 8,000 m tons.
Private operators must obtain a license for public transport and obtain their
freight through SNTR; they are not permitted to contract it on their own
initiative. Besides common carriers, most state enterprises and agricultural
cooperatives oxni trucks for their own freight. they are required, however,
to channel a certain percentage of their freight through the SNTR. SNTV
controls passenger transport; it also is a semi-independent state enterprise,
with financial and managerial autonomy, under the Ministry of Transport. In
1971, it had a fleet of about 1,100 vehicles, mainly buses for inter-city and
urban services. No privately-owned service exists to transport passengers
between cities, but private taxi drivers operate in cities with their own
vehicles.
C.   Administration
3.06      The MPWC (Chart World Bank-7149R) is responsible for the road
network, in particular through its DI. The MPWC is also responsible for
public buildings and housing and urban development, through the Directorate
for Planning and Urban Development (DPUD). About three-quarters of its staff
is employed for the highway sector. The DI is responsible for constructing
and maintaining national roads.  Its divisions are the:  Design Office for
Infrastructure, Central Equipment Division, and Office for Maritime Signaliz-
ation. In the field, the DI acts through its 15 provincial directorates
(Chart World Bank-7152R). These directorates are responsible for constructing
and maintaining national as well as regional roads, and they provide technical
assistance to local authorities for constructing and maintaining local roads.



- 6 -
3.07      In addition to highway projects, the provincial directorates, headed
by Chief Engineers, are responsible for administration and supervision of
projects in urban development, housing, government buildings, and construction
and maintenance works for agrarian collectives. Each provincial directorate
supervises three to five subdirectorates, each headed by an engineer who is
supported by technical assistants, which supervise construction and rehabilita-
tion works, carry out maintenance works in their territories and prepare small
projects. Most engineers have trained or studied abroad, mainly in France,
and are competent.
D.   Planning
3.08      The DI Design Office for Infrastructure is responsible for plan-
ning and designing highway projects. A competent Chief Engineer heads the
Office, but sufficient staff (especially economists) is lacking. For this
reason, the Office cannot make economic evaluations of highway projects.
The DI has asked for help in creatin- a srmall highway planning office at-
tached to its Desi-n Office to improve its hiîhway planning and to coor-
dinate highway plans with urban plans of the DPUD. Under this project,
technical assistance will be provided for this purpose (para. 4.15).
3.09      Construction and irmprovement of road links and trunk roads carry-
ing heavy traffic volumes are of hiùhest national priority and a considerable
backlog of this work has built up over the past several years (para. 2.03).
As a first step towards correcting this situation, the Government has prepared
lists of priority work for improvin,, existing routes and for constructing new
roads. These lists are based principally on a 1971/72 traffic-counting survey
in northern Algeria, but the economic feasibility and the relative priorities
of the projects have not yet been established. The necessary studies for this
and provisions for detailed engineering for some of the feasible elements are
included in this project (paras. 4.04-4.08). When this work is completed,
the Government will have a well-prepared procram of road projects which can
be undertaken on the basis of relative priorities and optimum timing.
3.10      The Covernment also attaches hi-h priority to construction of the
Trans-Sahara road (2,725 km) between El-Golea (Algeria), Gao (Mali), and
Arlit (Niger).  The three Governments are currently considering the first
2,40n km.  In Algeria, a paved carriagcwav 4 m wide is being constructed
between El-Golea and Ain Salah (410 km), and shotlld be completed by the end
of 1973. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has agreed to
finance detailed engineering of the section south of Ain Salah. The UNDP
has engaced Societe d'Etudes Economiques (SETEC) of France and Polytechna
of Czechoslovakia, which made the feasibility studies, for this work, ex-
pected to start in early 1973. The Governnent plans to complete the sec-
tion between Ain Salah and Tamanrasset (620 kn) by 1980, and has asked the
Bank to consider possible financing for this section. Additional economic
studies to up-date the original feasibility study are included in this pro-
ject (para. 4.09).



-7-
E.   Financing
3.11      Between 1965 and 1971, annual expenditures for construction and
improvement of national and regional roads averaged roughly about DA 40
million (Table 5).  These low expenditures reflect the low priority accorded
by Government to highway infrastructure investrments during the last two Plan
periods. The on-oing 1970-73 Plan has allocated DA 135 million of the central
government budget to construction and improvement of these roads and the 15
provincial directorates are expected to contribute DA 200 million. In total,
this corresponds to an annual average of over DA 80 million or about twice
the amount during 1965-71.
3.12      Most finance for highway construction, improvement, and maintenance
has come from the central, provincial, and local governnent budgets; the
African Development Bank has provided a small loan for a section of the Trans-
Sahara road. No special fund exists which allocates money directly for
highways. The central government provides all funds for the national roads
and 80% of the funds for regional roads, provincial governnents finance the
balance for the regional roads, and local governnents finance the full cost
of all local roads.
3.13      The Governrnent does not have a well-defined road user taxation
policy; users pay fuel and vehicle taxes, import duties on vehicles and
parts, and a vehicle insurance levy (Table 6). Statistics on road user
charges are poor, but according to available data revenues are five times
expenditures. To ensure that future funds for the highways will be adequate,
consultants under this project will review the road user taxation policy and
will advise the Government on the appropriate level of road user taxes
(para. 4.10).
F.   rn4neerig
3.14      The DI Design Office for Infrastructure is responsible for highway
engineering, but the provincial directorates also prepare smnall projects.
Althou-h the Office is technically capable of preparin;  highway projects,
it lacks sufficient staff (para. 3.08) and, therefore, employs consultants
for part of this work. Higlhway design standards are adequate.
3.15      The National Laboratory for Public Works and Buildings (LNTPB) is
char-ed with snilis investigations and materials tests for public works proj-
ects and buildings. Lahorntories attached to the DI provincial directorates
or stibdirectorates are charged witlh carrving out routine soils and materials
tests in the field during construction. Most equipment in these laboratories
is broken or overage and qualified personnel is scarce, therefore, the LINTPB
is asked to provide equipnent and personnel to conduct these tests in addi-
tion to its re,ular work. This situation causes delavs in construction and
cost increases, sonetimes resulting in contractors' claims.  Under this proj-
ect, laboratory equipment will be purchased and lahoratory personnel of DI
provincial directorates and subdirectorates will be trained to conduct routine
field soils and materials tests (para. 4.14).



- 8-
' . Construction
3.16      Apart from somc force account work, road construction is being
carried out bv contractors after being awarded unit price contracts through
competitive bidding.  Several European construction firms have set up branch
offices in Algeria and have maintained a steady business volume through
suippliers' credits. In most cases, they operate in joint venture with the
sc3vcn state enterprises: Company for Maintenance of Roads and Airports
(SIRA), National Company for Public Works; National Company for Road Works
(S0)NATRO)- and the Construction Companies for the Algiers, Constantine, Oran,
and( Southern Re-ions (Chart World Bank-7149R). Organizationally these enter-
prises are under the MIPWC, but they are financially independent, organized
like private contractors without privileges, and compete in bidding with
private, domestic and foreign firms.  Two of the enterprises are already
participating in this project (para. 4.03).
ti.   Maintenance
3.17      Despite relatively high expenditures for maintenance, roads are
not heing maintained properly.  The principal reason is lack of modern
equipment. Routine maintenance of national and regional roads is carried
out bv force account by the provincial directorates through their subdirec-
torates: resealing of bituiminous pavement is done by contractors.  The prov-
incial directorates and t"-eir subdirectorates have a limited pool of equip-
ment, wlich is overage and worn out, and they lack spare parts.  Maintenance
expenditures for national roads have increased steadily, whereas those for
regional roads have remained static and are probably insufficient. Under
this project, a maintenance study will be carried out by consultants to:
determine appropriate budget allocations for maintenance; review the mainte-
nance organization, operations, and equipment needs; and recommend improve-
mnents (para. 4.10). The most urgently needed vehicles and an initial stock
of spare parts will be provided under the project.
1.   Training
3.13      In 1970, the MPWC had a technical staff of 1,530 engineers and
technicians, of which 230 (15%) were foreigners supplied under various forms
of technical assistance. Since then a considerable effort has been made to
replace foreign personnel and to satisfy the increasing needs of the MPWC
with local staff. In 1970, only 11 students graduated from engineering
college at Algiers-Hussein-Dey, but in 1973 about 300 students will graduate.
Tweo schools for technicians were opened recently -- one in 1970 at Annaba,
and the other in 1971 at Constantine. In 1973, about 120 technicians will
graduate from the schools.
3.19      Equipment operators are trained or take refresher courses at the
Central Equipment Division of the DI. Construction supervisors are trained
at the Institute of Technology, which the MPWC established in 1969.  Under
this pro ject, laboratory equipment will be purchased and laboratory person-
nel oÇ the DT will be trained to conduct routine field soils and materials
tests (para. 4.14).



-9-
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project will help Algeria renove the backlog in improvement,
construction, and maintenance of roads carryin- heavy traffic volumes. It
consists of:
(i)  imprnvement and construction of 13 sections of national and
regional roads (84 km):
(ii)  feasihilitv studies by consultants for existing national
road sections (about 1,000 kf) and the Oran-Arzew express-
way (40 km);
(iii) feasibility studies and detailed engineering by consul-
tants for new national roads and related bypasses of towns
and villages (about 300 km), the Algiers-East expressway
(40 km), and the Algiers-Southwest expressway (50 km);
(iv) additional econonic studies by consultants for the Trans-
Sahara road;1
(v) a hi-hway maintenance study and a review of road user
char-es by consultants;
(vi) purchases of highway maintenance vehicles (including spare
parts) and laboratory equipment, and
(vii) technical assistance by consultants to the DI for the es-
tablishment of a highway planning office.
(a) Improvement and Construction
4.02      The Government asked the Bank to consider financing improvement
and construction of sections of national and regional roads (para.  3.09)
that carry heavv traffic volumes. The roads have narrow pavements, tortuous
alignnments, and poor visibility, an-1 as traffic continues to increase they
are becoming danf,erotis bottlenecks, unable to serve traffic adequately.  BCEOM
carried out the feasibility studies, which were financed by the Government;
the DI prepared the detailedl engineering, which is adequate.  Based on economic
juistification, the Bank lias selected 13 sections (84 km) for financing. Table
7 describes the type of works on the individual sections.
4.03      Because the roadworks are urgent, the Government started to improve
and construct four sections in mid-1972; contracts were awarded to two state
enterprises (SERA and SONATRO), the lowest bidders after international com-
petitive bidding. The Government also has received bids for six additional
sections, on four of which work started in early 1973.  These contracts were
awarded to the same enterprises and one private domestic firm.  Works on the
remaining two sections are scheduled to be-in by mid-1973. Supervision of



- 10 -
the works is being or will be carried out by the DI, which is adequately
staffed for this purpose.
(b) Feasibility Studies (Existing Roads)
4.04      The Government has prepared a priority list of national road sec-
tions (971 km) requiring improvement (para. 3.09 and Table 8). These roads
are basically in the same condition as the roads to be improved under the
project (para. 4.02). Consultants will carry out feasibility studies of
the roads included in the list. If improvemient is justified, the provincial
DI offices concerned and the DI Design Office for Infrastructure will complete
detailed engineering.  An improvement program similar to that included in this
project could result. During negotiations, the Government gave an assurance
that it will review the results of the feasibility studies with the Bank
before starting detailed engineering.
4.05      Between Oran and Arzew traffic has been increasing about 10% annually
and in 1971/72 ADT was about 5,000 vehicles. In the near future, the present
road will be inadequate to carry traffic and a new road will be needed. There-
fore, the Government intends to commission a feasibility study for an express-
way (about 40 km) to determine the alignment as well as the best sequence and
timing of construction. The study would enable the Governnient to start early
acquisition of right-of-way for the expressway.
(c) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering (New Roads)
4.06      In addition to the priority list for improving national road sec-
tions, the Government has prepared a priority list for constructing 287 km
of new national roads and related bypasses of towns and villages (para. 3.09
and Table 9). Consultants will carry out feasibilitv studies of the roads
and bypasses and will prepare detailed engineering and bidding documents for
economically feasible sections. During negotiations, the Government gave an
assurance that it will review the results of the feasibility studies and
select the roads for detailed engineering in consultation with the Bank.
4.07      The main road from Algiers to the east is Route Nationale 5 (RN5).
It is four lanes and divided over the first 6 km and three lanes over the
nexc 32 km, where an access road branches off to the Algiers international
airport (Dar El-Beida). Traffic has been increasing about 10% annually and
in 1971 APT was about 13,000 vehicles near Algiers and 7,500 vehicles at the
access road branch.  Under the 1974-77 Development Plan, the Government in-
tends to develop along this roacl a newq industrial area, which is expected to
generate considerably more traffie (especially hcavy traffic, now about 30%
of the total). The Government has assigned high priority to improving this
road section (Algicrs-East) to expressway standards and has already engaged
the Frenclh consulting firm, Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestions,
a branch of Centre d'Etudes et de l'Equipenent, to prepare a feasibility study
and to determine the best sequence and timing of construction.  The firm
started the study in H-larch 1972. Work is proceeding on schedule and recommenda-
tions will be available in the second half of 1973. For feasible sections,
detailed engineering and bidding documents will be prepared.



- il -
4.08      The Government similarly intends to improve to expressway standard
the nain road from Algiers to the southwest (Algiers-Southwest). This would
involve about 50 km of Route Nationale 1 (the Trans-Sahara road) from Algiers
to where Route Nationale 4 branches off to the west.  On this highwav, traffic
has heen increasing about 10%, annually and in 1971/72 ADT was about 8,200
vehicles.  Consultants will carry cut a feasibility study as well as deter-
mine the best sequence and timing cf construction. For whatever is justified,
detailed engineering and bidding documents will be prepared.
(d) Additional Economic Studies for the Trans-Sahara Road
4.09      The Governnient has indicated that it plans to seek Bank financing
for construction of a section of the Trans-Sahara Road lying within Algeria.
It agrees with the Bank that additional economic studies are required to
update the original economic feasibility study done in 1968. Accordingly,
this project provides for these additional studies to be undertaken in
conjunction with thie detailed engineering being carried out with UNDP assist-
ance (para. 3.10).
(e) ulighway `Maintenance Stuy
4.10      The condition of the national and regional roads has deteriorated
in recent years due to inefficient maintenance and delayed inprovement works
(para. 3.01). Recent large traffic increases have added to the problem (para.
3.03). The Government is aware that road maintenance should be improved and
has agreed that consultants should make a study to:  determine appropriate
budget allocations for maintenance~ review the maintenance organization,
operations, and equipment needs: recommend improvements; and review the
road user taxation policy and advise the Government on the appropriate level
of road user taxes.
4.11      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(i) discuss the consultants' recommendations with the Bank; (ii) carry out
the agreed recommendations according to a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank; (iii) maintain the road network adequately thereafter according to
sound engineering and highway practices  and (iv) provide promptly, as needed,
the finance, services, mechanical equipment, and other maintenance resources
required.
(f) Purchases of Ilighway Maintenance Vehicles (Including
Spare Parts) and Laboratory Equipment
4.12       %ost of the present vehicle fleet for highway maintenance is over-
age -- 34%O is over 10 years old and 29% from 5 to 10 years old (Table 10).
The older vehicles are often out of order, disrupting and often stopping
maintenance operations. A chronic shortage of spare parts aggravates the
situation by causing long periods of down time. Under the project, vehicles
over 10 years old will be replaced and an initial stock of spare parts for
the existing and new vehicles will be established. The need for further
replacements and additional vehicles and equipment, will be identified under
the maintenance study (para. 4.10).



- 12 -
4.13      During negotiations, the Gcovernment gave assurances that it will:
(i) charge the consultants for the maintenance study with: establishing
procedures for systematic replacement of equipment (including depreciation
accounting), reviewing the resulting list of equipment proposed for replace-
ment and reconimending how to establish and manage a spare parts stock for
maintenance and repair of the vehicle fleet3 and (ii) establish and main-
tain an adequate stock of spare parts for the fleet.
.14      To remedy the present deficiency in equipment and personnel to
carry out routine field soils and materials tests in DI provincial director-
ates and subdirectorates (para. 3.15), the laboratories of the 15 director-
ates will be re-equippedl with basic, modern soils and materials testing equip-
ment. Also, additional laboratory staff will be recruited and the LNTPB will
train new staff on the new equipment. During negotiations, a program was
discussed and agreed for training and expanding, DI staff to conduct these
tests and the Government gave an assurance that the agreed program will be
implemented.
(g) Technical Assistance
4.15      To improve its own highway planning and to coordinate highway plans
with urban plans of DPUD, the DI has asked for help in establishing a small
hiighwav planning office to be attached to its Design Office for Infrastruc-
ture (para. 3.08).  Threc experts from a consulting firm will be employed
to establish the office, initiate operations, and train Algerian counterparts.
The experts also will ensure adequate coordination of the various studies
to be carried out under the project.
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.16      The project cost, including taxes, duties, and contingency allow-
ances, is estimated at US$33.1 million. The foreign exchange component is
US$18.5 million or 56%. A summary of the project cost is on page 13 and
detailed cost estimates for the roadworks, feasibility studies and detailed
engineering, maintenance vehicles, and laboratory equipment are in Tables 7,
11, 12, and 13, respectively.
4.17      BCEOM, in collaboration with the DI, estimated the cost of the
roadworks on the basis of bids received, detailed engineering, and estimated
unit prices for similar works for the other sections; estimates are realistic
and satisfactory. Costs of consulting services for feasibility studies,
detailed engineering, additional economic studies, the highway maintenance
study, and technical assistance are based on contract estimates with consultants
for similar work in Algeria and on man-month rates. The cost of the highway
maintenance vehicles (including spare parts) is based on recent costs for
similar equipment and that of the laboratory equipment on recently submitted
offers under international competitive bidding.



13
----- DA thousand------    -----US$ thousand -----  Foreign
2xchange
Project Element               Local   Foreign  Total    Local- Foreign   Total   Component
A. Road Improvement and
Construction           36,900    24,600  61,500   9,000    6,000   15,000         40
B. Feasibility Studies        4,100    16,200  20,300   1,000    4,000    5,000        80
and Detailed
Engineering
C, Additional Economic          350     1,450   1,800       80      360      440       80
Studies
D. Maintenance Study            230       900   1,130       60      220      280       80
E. Maintenance Vehicles       6,300    15,000  21,300   1,520    3,680    5,200        70
F. Laboratory Equipment       1,800     4,000   5,800      440      980    1,420       70
G. Technical Assistance         220       900   1,120       50      220       270      80
a/
H. Contingency Allowance    10,100    12,450  22,550   2,500    3,000    5,500
Total Project Cost     60,000    75,500 135,500  14,600   18,500   >33100         56
Note: Figures in this table have been rounded.
a/ 10% for price escalation and 10% for physical overruns on all elements.



- 14 -
4.18      Contingency allowances of 10% for all elements are considered ade-
quate to cover annual price increases of about 5% in local and foreign costs
over the implementation period of the project. Also, a 10% physical contingency
has been allowed on all project elements for increases of quantities and or
man-months.
4.19      The BCEOM and DI estimated the foreign exchange component of the
roadworks at 40%. The estimates are satisfactory. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the consulting services is estimated at 80% and that of the main-
tenance vehicles and laboratory equipment at 70%; taxes and duties on vehicles
arA equipment average about 30% of their total cost.
C.   Execution
4.20      The DI, assisted by consultants, will be responsible for carrying
out the project. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
it will: (i) employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Bank and (ii) make qualified counterparts available to work full-time with the
consultants undertaking the maintenance study and technical assistance.
4.21      The DI will prepare bidding documents for the roadworks and for
the vehicle and equipment purchases; those for the latter will be in cooperation
with the maintenance study consultants. Contracts for the roadworks have been
or will be awarded after international competitive bidding according to the
'Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement". Vehicles and equipment will be
purchased through separate contracts for each type or group of similar types
based on international competitive bidding according to these "Guidelines".
Until recently, Ulgeria extended customs preferences on equipment to all
countries of the European Common Market. These preferences were abolished,
with effect from January 1, 1973. No preferential tariffs are now in effect.
4.22      The roadworks began in mid-1972 and will be completed by mid-1975.
Government policy is not to specify the use of labor on civil works such as
road improvements, but to leave the choice of the labor/equipment blend to
bidders. The consultants for the maintenance study will be asked to examine
possible use of labor intensive practices and to recommend which practices
should be used. No ecological problems are foreseen as a result of the road-
works. The bypasses will help to improve the environment of urban areas as
traffic will be diverted from them. The studies to be made under the project
will take into account ecological aspects of the roadworks. The consulting
services will begin by mid-1973 and be completed by the end of 1974. The
contracts for the maintenance vehicles and laboratory equipment will provide
for one-third of the equipment to be delivered in 1973 and the remainder in
1974.
D.   Financing
4.23      The project contains elements suitable for UNDP financing.  But the
UNDP could provide a grant of only US$2.3 million whlich is being used for de-
tailed engineering of part of the Trans-Sahara road (para. 3.10). Therefore,
the CGovernment has asked the Bank to help finance the entire project. A loan



- 15 -
of US$18.5 million for a 25-year term, including 5 years of grace, is proposed
to cover its foreign exchange cost. The Government will cover the local
cost; during negotiations, the Government gave an assurance to this effect.
4.24      The Governnent has asked the Bank for US$1.8 million in retroactive
financing for the roadworks (para. 4.03) and for the feasibility study of the
Algiers-East expressway (para. 4.07), which are underway. This amount is
included in the project.
E.   Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements from the Loarn Account will be made on the basis of:
40% of expenditure for the roadworks: the foreign cost of consulting services;
and the c.i.f. cost (Algiers) of the maintenance vehicles (including spare
parts) and laboratory equipment. In accordance with the foregoing and the
schedule of project execution (para. 4.22), an Estimated Schedule of Disburse-
ments has been prepared (Annex A). Surplus funds remaining in the Loan
Account after the project has been completed will be used for maintenance
equipment purchases or roadworks, as agreed between the Government and the
Bank.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      For further development of Algeria's agriculture and industry
and for movement of people and goods, especially between the most important
production and consumption centers, an efficient and reliable transport system
is needed, including roads that are well maintained and which have sufficient
capacity and can be travelled safely. The existing road network does not meet
these conditions; most roads have deteriorated because maintenance has been
inadequate and improvement works have been delayed. With recent traffic
growth, several sections are congested and accident rates are high on sections
with poor design standards.
5.02      Overall, the project will help the Government achieve its objective
of high economic growth by: improving and constructing certain sections of
major roads serving important population and economic centers in the northern
region; preparing additional road improvement works; improving the efficiency
of road maintenance operations; and providing better project supervision and
strengthened highway planning. The major works are near Algiers, the capital,
and Constantine and El-Asnam, important economic centers close to major ports.
Benefits from more efficient maintenance and project supervision as well as
better planning will accrue to the economy at large. Transport, maintenance,
and construction costs would increase if the project were not undertaken.
The main beneficiaries of the project will be road users, principally the
traffic for business purposes, representing about 80% of total traffic; the
remaining 20% is for private and tourist purposes.



- 16 -
B.   Roadworks
5.03      The works included in the project are designed to improve and con-
struct 13 sections of major roads (para. 4.02). These sections carry rela-
tively high Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of about 1,000 to 8,000 vehicles
(Table 14).  With further growth of the economy and per capita income, the
ADT of light vehicles is estimated to increase 11% annually until 1982 and
107 annually thereafter; the ADT of heavy vehicles, 9% annually until 1982
.nd 8% annually thereafter. These estimates are based on past trends of
traffic on these roads and take into account the expected economic development
of the areas they serve; they do not take into account any traffic that prob-
ably will be generated by the improvement works.
5.04      Quantified benefits from the roadworks are lower accident rates
and road maintenance costs as well as savings in travel time and vehicle
operating costs. An extensive survey by BCEOM concluded that some sections
to be improved have high accident rates because of poor visibility, tortuous
alignment, and deteriorated pavement. In 1970-71, 15% of the accidents re-
sulted in serious injuries and 85% in minor injuries and vehicle damage.
BCEOM has estimated that after the sections are improved the number of acci-
dents by section will decrease 20% to 60%. Accident savings are based on
average indemnities paid by insurance companies. On most sections, mainten-
ance costs are expected to decline slightly after the improvement works have
heen completed. Time sav ngs for heavy vehicles are based on salaries of pro-
fessional drivers and theïr assistants; for light vehicles, the value of time
has been estimated at DA 1.5 per man hour (US$0.33), or about 30% of the
average salaries of a professional driver and his assistant. This latter
value is conservative since about 80% of car traffic is for business purposes.
Savings in vehicle operating costs are estimated at 15% to 35% after improve-
ment (Table 14). The relative importance of these benefits varies from sec-
tion to section: lower accidents account for 10% to 40% of total benefits;
shorter travel times for professional drivers and passengers, 20% to 45%; and
lower vehicle operating costs, 35% to 65%; savings in maintenance costs are
relatively modest. Overall, the benefits are estimated to yield an Economic
Return of 35%. For individual sections, the Economic Return varies from 15%
to over 50% (Table 15). Annex B gives the basic data and assumptions used
in the economic evaluation of the roadworks.
5.05      Sensitivity tests show that the overall Economic Return would re-
main satisfactorv if construction costs were higher and benefits lower than
estimated, or if part of the benefits were disregarded (Table 15). The over-
all Economic Return would fall to 22% if construction costs were 15% higher
than estimated and benefits 25% lower. On this pessimistic assumption, the
Economic Return on any section would be a minimum of 10%. If all benefits from
time savine,s for passerç-ers in cars, taxis, and buses were excluded, the over-
all Economie Return would be 25% and the minimum Return for any section would
be 10%. Similarly; if all benafits fron the expected decline in accidents
were excluded, the overall Econonic Return would be 30% and the minimum Re-
turn for any section would be 12%.



- 17 -
C.   Other Priject Flenents
5 06      'eew mnaintenance vehicles would yield important savings in mainte-
nance and operating costs of overage vehicles. Cost data collected by the
MPIWC show that t'e annual maintenance cost of a vehicle over 10 years old is
15% of the purchase price of a new vehicle and its annual fuel consumption is
35% to 50% higher than that oÇ a new vehicle.  Such savings alone on the new
velicles in the project would exceed DA 2 million annually.  More important,
benefits fror. the new vehicles would accrue to the Governnent frorm greater
efficiency in maintenance operations as a result of their greater reliability
and serviceability. These savings and benefits justify the proposed invest-
rents in new vehicles.
5.07      Benefits fron the preinvestment and maintenance studies as well as
from the laboratory cquiiprent and technical assistance have not been quanti-
fied.  But these elements are clearly justified by the projects they are like-
ly to generate (para. 3.09) and since they will help the Government improve
project preparation and e-xecution as well as road maintenance and planning.
The project also will provide additional on-the-job training for counterparts
to be appointed to the consultants. Another unquantifiable benefit is that
tlhe project will help the Governrent redress the lag in highlway development
in recent years. This is essential if development of the road network is to
keep pace  with the increase in road transport demand and the expected growth
of the economy.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AN) RECO»4F.NDATIONZ
6.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues discussed
in Chapters II and IV, based on the expected economic life of the road
sections to be improved or constructed the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of l!S$18.5 million to the Governnent of the Democratic and Popular
Republie of Algeria for a 25-year term, including 5 years of grace.
May 29, 1973






TATBLE
APPRAISAI OF
f,IG}EWOY FROJDT
aIr 1EliIA
Sounjary of Ra.lway, Port. rncc        Avvil  ivation Traffic Statistics
Railway Traf'fic
______________BPassenger
Year                millior.  r-,, i.il] on pass-kni
!96L,                   1,233                        858
1969                    1,318                        952
1 7c                  1,360                     1,013
12*'                    1,335                      1,097
/> Average Annual Growth Rate
Ferio n
1568.71                     3                          9
Port Traffic
Algiers                 %nnaba                   Arzew
Year     I:port s    lcxports      Imports       xports    Imports   Exports
----------------------thousand n, tons------------------------
A->f&      3,435       1,895          45 5     2,802           133    19,266
1'o'       3,764       2,128          756,     2,836           153    21,o32
'7ù!      -4,199       2,200        1,131      2,331           164    21,921
1712/    2,377        1,593        1.252      2,074           303    17,714
h Averaze Annual Growth Rate
Peri o
,56d-71        -15        -3.5         40         10           31          -4
Be,taa                   Oran                  Skikda
Year     Imrort s    Exo«.rts      ImLports   Exports      Imports   Exports
____________________t-,- ac  nlt ----------------
l°15          157    15,240         1,-79         570           4&5        103
1969'         186    15,326           884         647           572         84
1970          314    15.178         1,074         784           604         77
157lV         366    12,607         1,124         378           646         65
% Averaee  innual Crowth Rate
Pariod
1968-71                   -                                                -
Civil Aviation Traffic (Domsstic and International)
Freight                          Passengers
Year          Algiers        All Airports         Algiers       All Airports
---------m tons-----------          -------thousands--------
1968           6,o ,              7,530               577           1,(14
l969           6,615              7,59h               726           1,187
1970           7,001              8,557               916           1,524
197111         7,310              6,912               987           1,679
% Average Annual Growth Rate
Period
1968-1571          6                  6                19               18
1/ Preliminary estimates.
Sources: Societe Nlationale de Chemins de Fer Algeriens and nI.Tnistry of Transport,
Seotember 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 2
APPI?ùAI3AL 'OYJ
A ITIG}JIIAY PRIOJECT
AL,GER.IA
,lassified Highway lietwork, 1971-/
Su rface Type
Classification               Paved         Earth         Total.
__________---    km   -------- ------
National                    13, 960        4,4302~/    185390
Regional                    15,300         f,360        21,660
Local                       -5,900        32,600        38,500
Total                     35160      4h3,390        78,550
__________ .'' t)  Total ------…---
lb 5         55           100
1/ Details about t'he uncl.assified network are unknown.
Z/ All-weather.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Construction, September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
MIotor Vehicle Fleet, 1965-71
Light Cormmrcial
Ve hicles 1/and
Trucks (below       Heavy Trucks
Year     Cars   5 m tons)            (over 5 m tons)   Tractors  Total   Index
------------- thousands  ------
l265     93.6         62.7                12.4            15.7    184.4    100
1966    103.4         56.3                12.5            15.9    188.1    102
195t7    108.3        5h.9                11.9            18.0    193.1    105
1968    115.2         55.8                11.6            20.8    203.4    110
1969    127.,-        60.2                12.8            22.0    222.1    121
1970    133.5         56.0                15.5            23.6    243.6    132
1971    147.1         69.8                14.°            2h.ù    256.2    139
-------------- % Average Annual Girowth Rate ---------------
P eriod
1965-71   7.8          1.8                 3.0             7.6       5.6      --
-- means not applicable.
1/ Up to 2.5 m tons capacity.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Construction, September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABL h
APPRAISAL OF
A HIClfi,IAY PBRJECT
ALCGERIA
I'otor Vahicle Fuel Consiumption, 1965-71
Year         Gasoline         Index          D3  ese1           Tndex
thousand m tons                thousand n t ans
1965          2-3.8            100            158.3               100
' '          928, R . 0       102            150.0                95
' 9t'>7       992.4            103           153.2                97
3608.9           109           17ht .8             110
-1'ci9        3,C.7            12h            2(03.9              129
15'7(0        '*7              135            228.9               145
1971          4X99.0 14L                     249.C              157
…--,0 Average Annual Groawth Rate-
Period
ip(,5-71       6*3               --            8.-4
-- ne.ins not :pnl lcahl
siOtrCx':  f{i.ni ,tryn  ', ublic  Jorks and Constnrction, September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALERIA
Expenditures and Sources of Finance on National and Regionai Road3, 1965-71
1/                        Total
National Roads               Regional Roads                       Expenditures
Central Government                                         Mainte-   on National
Invest-  Mainte-             Central   Provincial            nance     and Regional
Year    ment    nance    Total       Budget       Budget  Total   Equipment    Roads 2/
-------------------------------- DA thousand -----------------------------------
1965   37,609   31,313  68,922        12,454      36,595  49,049      1,074       119,045
1966   29,641   38,906  68,547         8,476      36,758  45,234       1,034      114,815
1967   31,075   57,288  88,363         4,633      39,757  44,390      1,992       134,745
1968   79,193   59,839 139,032        13,742      38,291  52,033      5,969       l.?7.034
1969   19,563   64,331  83,894        12,453      42,649  55,102       2,614      141,610
1970   37,705   65,362 103,067        15,391      33,736  49,127      9,515       161,709
1971   36,680   74,890 111,570        10,442      39,324  49,766       9,084      170,420
1/ Construction and maintenance combined because separate data not available.
2/ Excluding administration.
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure, September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
1/
Ravenue from Road Users, 1968-71
2/                     Import Daties
Fuel Taxes             Vehicle    on Vehicles   Vehicle
Year    Gasoline   Diesel Oil   Total    Taxes        and Parts 3/In$.urance  Total
___--------------------------- DA million --------------
1968       294          69         363       75          150           25       613
1969       334          77         411       83          170           27       691
1970       365          85         450       92          200           30       772
1971       395          9C         485       99          230           34       848
1/ Eatimated.
Z/ DA 0.69/1  (U¢S17/1) on regular gasoline, DA 0.74/1 (US018/1) on super gasoline,
and DA 0.32/1 (US¢8/1) on diesel oil.
3/ On trucks, 37%; on cars, over 100%.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Construction, September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGIihAY PROJECT
ALIERIA
Type of and Cost Estimate for Road Improvements and Construction
Length                 t/                      Cost
Road and Section                       km      Type of VWork                    DA thousand
Algiers-Tizi Ouzou-Constantine
Al 21                              8.6      Strengthening and widening           5,012
A22/                               5.0      Strengthening and correcting
alignrnent                         6,498
A53/                               4.1      Constructing new bypass of tolsn
and new bridge                     2,620
A63/                               5.0      Widening and constructing new
bridges                            2,41h
A7                                  9.2     Widening and constructing new
road section (1.5 kcn)             4.943
Subtotal                     31.9                                          21L488
Algiers-Oran
EA12/                               7.0     Constructing new bypass of town    3,688
EA2                                 2.1     Constructing new bypass of town    1,423
EA3                               13.3      Strengthening and correcting
aligrnent                        10,286
EA5                                 1.3     Constructing new bypass of cement
plant and new bridges             1,167
Subtotal                     23.7                                          16,564
Algiers-Trans Sahara
A8 2/                              8.0      Strengthening                        5,288
Subtotal                      8.0 5L288
Annaba-Skikda
8.8     Strengthening and correcting
aligrneent                        6,504
c-2/                               4.5      Strenuthening and widenin_           5,640
6.9     Conx;tructing new road section and
nov bridge                       6,&ud
Subtotal                     20.2                                          18,152
Total                        83.8                                          61,h92
1/ Excluding contirigencies.
2/ Sections being constructed.
3/ Sections for which bids have been received but contracts have not been awarded.
V/ Main Characteristios:  Pavement: 7.0m or 10.5m asphalt concrete;
Shoulders: 1.5m - 2.5m
Sources: Ministry of Pablic -Wf.orks and Construction and Report of Bureau Central
d'Rtudes d'Outre Mer, SeDtember 1972
May 29, 1973



TABL4 8
APPFi'ISAL OF
A HIGEHWAY PROJZCT
ALGERIA
Existing National Road Sectioens
for Feasibility Studies
To be Improved
Province                  Sections             Length
Number                km
Algiers                      3                   98
Algiers/Il-Asnam             1                  170
Annaba                       2                   73
Batna                        1                   15
Constantine                  3                  229
E, 1-Asnan                   2                   22
Moetaganem'                  2                   48
Oran                         1                   20
Setif                        5                  121
Tizi-Ouzou                   3                  117
Tlemcen                      3                   58
Total                     26                  971
Source:  Directorate for Infrastructure, November 1972
May 29, 1973



TAELE
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGŒIA
New National Roads and
Related Bypasses of Towns and Villages
for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
Type and Name                Province               Let
New National Roads
Batna-Setif                  Batna and Setif         100
Constantine-Le Kroub         Constantine              15
Tiavet-Sidibel-Abbes         Oran                    100
Sabtotal                                           215
Bypasses of Towns and Villages
Ain-lefla                    El-Asnam                 5
Attafs                       El-Asnam                 6
Batna                        Batna                    6
Constantine                  Constantine              5
Dje2.fa                      Medea                    6
ESl-Kseur                    Setif                    7
Ksar-el-Boukhari             Medea                    5
Ivascara                     Mostaganem               6
Mohammadia                   Oran                     7
Realizane                    Mostaganem               5
Remchi                       Tlemcen                  7
Teniet-el-Had                El-Asnam                 7
Subtotal                                           72
Total                                          287
Source:  Directorate for Infrastructure, November 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJE^T
ALGERIA
Ccnposition and Age of Mainterznce Vehicle Fleet
Vehicles
to be Replaced
Vehicles in Service
Age   ears)                          % of
e0-5   5-10   Over 10   All Ages             Vehicles
in
------- Number ---- ---           Number   Service
Vehicles
Below 5 hp                52     32       40      124         4h          32
5 - 15 hp                 77     49       57      183          57          31
Pick-ups
Landrovers                il     15       25       51          25         49
Camionettes              206    132      233      571         233         41
Trucks
Below 2.5 m tons (Light)178    158       125      461         125         27
6 - 8 m tons (Tipper)   112    106       106    .324          106         33
Total                 636    492        6    1             5&6         --
% of Total                37     29       34      100          --         34
-- means not applicable.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Construction   September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 11
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
AI&ERIA
Cost Estimate for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
Type of Studt                             Length            Cost
ka            DA thousand
Feasibility studies for:
National Road Improvement                 971              6,800
Proposed Oran-Arzew Expressway             40              1,100
Feasibility studies and detailed
engireering for:
New Road Construction                     287              6,800
Proposed Algiers-East Expressway           32              2,400
Proposed Algiers-Southwest
Expressway                               5°              3,200
Total                                1,380             20,300
1/ Excluding contingencies.
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure, November 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 12
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGW»AY PROJECT
ALGERIA
Cost Estimate for New Maintenance Vehicies
(Including Spare Parts' 1/
To be       Unit Cost        Unit       Total Cost      Total
replaced    (Includ-         Cost        (Includ-        Co3t
(Units)     ing Taxes)    (c.i.f.)    ing Taxes)        (c.
Vehicles
Below 5 hp                   40         10,900           7,270        436,000      290,800
5 - 15 hp                    57          18,700         12,480      1,065,900      711,360
Pick-ups
Landrovers                   25          30,700         21,500        767,500      537,500
Camionettes                 231          27,000         18,000      6,291,000   h,19h,O0
Trucks
Below 2.5 m tons (Light)  125            23,600         15,520      2,950,000   2,065,000
6 - 8 m tons (Tipper)       106          57,840         42,220      6,131,0ob    4,475,320
Initial stock of
spare parts for:
New equipment              --            --            --         l,66h4,1l    1,227,398
Existing vehicles          --            --            --         1,9499,416   1, 908,622
Total                  586         168 740         117,990    21,255,000  1?        .G00D
Total Rounded                                                 21,300,000  15,000,000 C
-- means not applicable.
1/ Excluding contingencies.
Source:  Ministry of Public Works and Construction, September 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 13
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
Cost Estimate for Laboratory Equipment
Cost
(Including         Cost
Taxes)        (c.-i.f)
-DA ----------
For 1 Field Division:
Basic laboratory equipment,
sieves, balances, mixers, etc.         49,833          36,176
Testing Machines:
Heavy compression                      33,660          24,980
Light compression                      24,753          17,990
Testing Equipment for:
Compaction                              3,300           2,200
.Determination of dry density           9,488            6,900
Liquid limit and plastic limit          3,397           2,470
Moisture content                       56,960           42,400
Plate-bearing                         132,600           75,125
Shear test box                          3,085           2,275
Triaxial compression                   70,500          52,000
Total                               387,576         262,516
For 15 Field Divisions:
Total                             5,813,640        3, 937740
Total Rounded                     5,80o,o00        4,O,000oo
1/ Excluding contingencies.
Source:  Ministry of Public Works and Construction, September 1972.
Mav 29, 1973



TABLE 14
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGIIWAY FP.OJECT
ALGERIA
Average Daily Traffic and Vehicle OPerating Costs on Project Road Sections
Vehicle Operating Costs
------      Centimes------------
Aver*ge Daily Traffic      Light Vehicles- Heavy Vehicles-
Light     Heavy               Improvements      Improvements
Road and Section              Vehiclesl/ Vehicles2`/ Total   Before   After   Before  After
Algiers-Tizi Ouzou-Constantine
Ai                              5,86o     1,660   7,520      12       10        37      30
A2                              3,400        700   4,100     il        9        26      21
A5                              2,700        300   3,000      13      il        41      30
A6                              2,440       360   2,800       13      10        41      30
.A7                             1,560        190   1,750      10      10        27      23
Algiers-Oran
EA1                             1,81o        710   2,520      10       9        25      23
EA2                             1,790        710   2,500      il       9        27      23
EA3                            22,140       460   2,600      10        9       26       23
EA5                             2,140       460   2,600      10        9        26      23
Algiers-Trans Sahara
A8                              6,700     1,400   8,100       il       9        27      23
Annaba-Skikda
Ci                                200        50      250     13       10        30      24
c4                              1,150       200   1,350      10        9        26      23
C5                            11,840        360   2,200      il       10       30       27
1/ Cars, vans, and trucks less than 5 m tons.
2/ Trucks over 5 m tons.
Sources; Ministry of Public Works and Construftion, Report of Bureau Central d'Etudes
d'Outre Mer, and Mission Estimates, S3ptember 1972
May 29, 1973



TABLE 15
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGIW.Y PROJECT
ALGERIA
Economic Return of Road Improvement Works
Economic Return
1/    Best             Alternativesi/
Economic Cost    Estimate    1        2       3      h
Road and Section                   DA thousand                                 -
Algiers-Tizi Ouzou-Constantine
Ai                                3,822            62        35      80     46      51
A2                                5,138            15        10      23      10     13
A5                                2,008            24        15      38    ;21      20
A6                                1,820            73        40      80     49      65
A7                                3,806            27        20      34      21     26
Algiers-Oran
EA1                               2,500            17        il      25      12     14
EA2                               1,111            42        26      64      22     36
EA3                              77,976            23        17      28      12     18
EA5                                 920            18        13      31      il     12
Algiers-Trans Sahara
A8                                4,036            63        35      80      36     58
Annaba-Skikda
ci                                5,o67            65        44      80      62     58
C4                                4,544            22        15      28      15     19
C5                                4,582            27        17      45      21     20
Total                         47,630--                    --      --      --     --
Average                            --           35        22      V7      25     30
-- means not applicable.
1/ Including costs of right-of-way project preparation, construction (net of taxes),
and supervision.
2/ Alternatives: 1 - Construction costs 15% higher than estinated and benefits 25% lower.
2 - Construction costs 15% lower than estimated and benefits 25% higher.
3 - Excluding passenger time savings.
4 - Excluding benefits from the expected decline in accidents.
Source: Bureau Central d'Etudes d'Outre Mer, February 1973
May 29, 1973






ANNEX A
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHlY PROJe;CT
ALGERIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD iïiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                   and End of Quarter
US   illion
1973/74
,S'eptember 30, 1973                                      3.0
December 31, 1973                                         3.5
M.Irch 31, 1974 4h0
June 30, 1974                                             4.5
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                        6.0
3ecember 31, 1974                                         7.5
March 31, 1975                                            9.0
jxune 30, 1975                                           10.5
i97ï5/76
September 30, 1975                                       12.0
facember 31, 1975                                        13.5
March 31, 1976                                            15.0
Juna 30, 1976                                            16.5
1976/77
Jeptember 30, 1976                                       18.0
IDcember 31, 1976                                        18.5
Source:  Mission Estimate, October 1972
ly 29, 1973



ANNEX B
APPRAISAL 0F
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
Basic Data and Assumptions Used in Economic Evaluation
1.  Economic Costs of Roadworks
These costs cover right-of-way, project preparation, construction
(net of taxes), and supervision.
2. Traffic Growth Rates
Light                Xeavy
Years               Vehicles             Vehicles
1972-82                 il                     9
1983-92                 10                    8
These rates conform to past traffic trends and take into account
the expected economic development of the zones of influence of each major
road; they do not take into account any traffic generated by the improve-
ment works.
3.  Accident Savings
Accident savings are estimated on the basis of accident rates on
the project  roads, before and after improvement; these rates were derived
from a survey of accidents in recent years on main roads with different
design characteristics and traffic volumes. Accident costs correspond to
average indemnities paid by insurance companies: DA 6,000 for bodily in-
jury and DA 400 for material damage.
4.  Travel Time Savings
For heavy vehicles, these savings are based on average salaries and
wages (net of taxes) of professional drivers and their assistants. For
light vehicles, only non-work time savings have been calculated, although a
large percentage of light vehicle traffic is for business purposes. The
value of non-work time has been estimated at DA 1.5 per man-hour, or about
30% of the average salaries of drivers and assistants.
5.  Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
These savings are based on: running costs fet of taxes) for such
items as fuel, lubrication, and tires; the cost of maintenance and repairs;
and vehicle depreciation,before and after improvement of the project roads.
May 29, 1973



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND CONSTRUCTION
MINISTER
SECRETARY
GENERAL
DIRECTORATE               DIRECTORATE                      DIRECTORATE                                           DIRECTORATE
INSPECTION                   FOR                        FOR                              FOR                                                   FOR
GENERAL                   GENERAL                  CONSTRUCTION                     PLANNING AND               DIRECTORATE                  GENERAL
ADMINISTRATION             AND HOUSING                      AN DEVELOPMENT                 FOR                 TECHNICAL MATTE
INFRASTRUCTURE
DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR            DIRECTORATE FOR                 DFOR                                                    IRECTORATE FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE            INFRASTRUCTURE      _      INFRASTRUCTURE                   INFRR                                                 INFRASTRUCTURE
TLEMCEN                    SAIDA                      MEDEA                            SETIF                                                ANNABA
DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR            DIRECTORATE FOR                  DIRECTORATE FOR           CENTDIRECTORATE FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE            INFRASTRUCTURE             INFRASTRUCTURE                   INFRASTRUCTURE           CENTRAL EOUIPMENT            INFRASTRUCTURE
ORAN|                     TIARET                    ALGIERS                           BATNA                                                SAOURA
DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR            DIRECTORATE FOR                  DIRECTORATE FOR          OFFICE FOR MARITIME             CTORTE FOR
L' INFRASTRUCTURE         INFRASTRUCTURE             I      R                         INFRASTRUCTJURE             SIGNALIZATION             INFRASTRUCTURE
MOSTAGANEM                   ASNAM                   TIZI OUZOU                       CONSTANTINE
|PUBLIC ENTERPRISES ATTACHED TO THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS|
I~~~~~~ I                            I                                                          
NATIONAL LABORATORY           DESIGN OFFICE FOR         NATIONAL COMPANY FOR             NATIONAL COMPANY FOR        CONSTRUCTION COMPANY         CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
FOR PUBLIC WORKS    i      ARCHITECTURE ANO               PUBLIC WORKS                    MARITIME WORKS           FOR THE ALGIERS REGION        FOR THE ORAN REGION
(LNTPB)        J        TOWN PLANNING                 (SONATIBA)                       (SONATRAMI                    (SORECAL)                   (SORECOR)
j       ~~~(ETAU)
I     TECHNICAL SUPER-           ALGERIAN DEVELOP-           NATIONAL COMPANY                COMPANY FOR MAINTE-       CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR       CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
VISION CENTER                MENT FUND                 FOR ROAD WORKS                 NANCE OF ROADS AND         THE CONSTANTINE REGION       FOR THE SOUTHERN REGION
(CTCI                     (CADAT)                    (SONATRO)                       AIRPORTS (SERAI                (SORECCO)                    ISCIRECSUDi
October 1972
NOTE: ACRONYMS FOR ORGANIZATION NAMES RELATE TO FRENCH TITLES OF ORGANIZATIONS ASUSED IN ALGERIA.                                                            Wo,Id B-k - 7149 (RI
SOURCE: DIRECTORATE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE, SEPTEMBER 1972






APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGER IA
ORGANIZATION OF A PROVINCIAL DIRECTORATE
DIRECTORATE
FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE
SUBDIRECTORATE             SUBDIRECTORATE                       SUBDIRECTORATE              SUBDIRECTORATE
FOR TRANSPORT                   FOR                                   FOR                         FOR
INFRASTRUCTURES                HOUSING                            CONSTRUCTION                TOWN PLANNING
OFFICES FOR:               OFFICES FOR:                          OFFICES FOR:                OFFICES FOR:
-ROADS AND                 -URBAN HOUSING                        -PUBLIC                    -DESIGN
AIRPORTS                  -RURAL HOUSING                         BUILDINGS                  -SUPERVISION
-PORTS                                                          -BUILDINGS FOR
-CONSTRUCTION                                                     AGRICULTURAL
AND LABORATORY                                                   COLLECTIVES
-EQUIPMENT
'THESE TWO SUBDIRECTORATES EXIST SEPARATELY ONLY
IN THE PROVINCES OF ALGIERS, CONSTANTINE, AND ORAN;
IN ALL OTHER PROVINCES THEY ARE GROUPED TOGETHER                                                  October 1972
UNDER A SUBDIRECTORATE FOR URBAN AND RURAL HOUSING.                                               Worid Bank - 7152(R)
SOURCE: 0IRECTORATE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE, SEPTEMBER 1972






BRO 10242R1
10  5                                                                S.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY   1973
POR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
_______MAIN NATIONAL RORDS                                                                                                                       dN
MAIN SAHARA TOACKO
PROJECT ROAAO:
-   ROAD SECTIONS TO BE IMIRPMOMTAT-
-NORD SECTIONS FOR FEASIDILITY STODIE
.RO......    SE1 ICTIONS F00 FEASIBILITY SF01010
AND0 DOTAI LED ENGINEERING                                                                                                        INO
RTAD FOR ADDITIONAL ECAIIOMIT STUDIES
ROSER INFRARTR~UCSRIM
RAI LWAYS~                    RA0                                                                                                                                    DeAj
STANDARD GASGEAF
N)~ INTEMNATIONAL AIRPONTS
S' OCONDARY AIRFOPTS                              _            ~         ~         ~          ooh         Q
~MOUNTRINOUS MACROA                                                                                                                      H--el.
X~TINTERNATIONAL SOLNDChIE
A t/A   i    oo05           Agad,,
-30-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
NIL DM E TAON~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L1 Y
SPANMSH SAHARA
MAURITANIA                                                                                                          S,''I\\FASod
-  '-.  \GERARRNO,-4--.   ~                                *'.s -LI-.--S.                                                                                                    \  .
A T1ANY~~C   FRANCE                            L..RI-
OCEAN  ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     KuMANN JA
PORS 5AINfTASCA   TUKEYALGRIAN                                                                                                            T \        ''         .Z              -
M E D~~~~~BJG~8-k5
?      m E 0~~                             y                                                                                     ,.                   *x         NIG
jTUNISIA   A ~' ' 4e-NE -STRUCTUREti                                                                        "-.     " i'   I7,'                                   DO GE
ALGERIA                       I  FAO                                                            I                                        I
SFS AOARAjN1                      L IRYA      ROM   
r                               00~~~~~~~~~~~~~M      -.'0~-  -    ,, R   m b'O'.               j                         -
MALI  '-~~NiO.     CURD  -r'J SATAN                                                                                           Ile
MASAITANIR  N  -~~~~~   L  '-'  k  -~~~~--i'~~   ~~ d-~~oo~  ToON,                 I S






PlsCherA G    R  A
TRANSPOR~TATION  .N.RASTRUCTUR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Moaom                                                                   =                                           hodu   la
NORTHER~Mlina REGONManou                                                                               50 Zeat
60              Arreridj                                            Ain-Befd~~~50 100 150 20
e     lcu             njet         El SunhrrGue                                                                  LOEKERf
an@§erriouch5t  f,C                `>9-   `                          a           Norro    oug                                       ______________J________                   ToGrcè5___
EXISTG RDS                                d~                           bel~ O Aiots                     \                       D= D ebel e:  B
Uni                      JS                                                                    Pi mpeli                               I (
RoOd for /dditionol Economic Studies                              0A2    Number of Road Section as n App o ai Repo                                  Debe
> ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~                                                                                          MA        NIGE       CHAr,SAL    ER  
R                                                                                                                                                                                      On k
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u,,B,w Ui4UWC -                                                                                     .- tnadGug  IOATR
CrampEC_RoADS                                                                Ppln                                                           -' C l                 )               N -
Road Sections to be Improved                      - ag Ou    l*atALEt                                                                               LoA       I
0~ ~ ~~~odScin o esbiiySuis--Gs/     
Rod  eciosfo Fasbiiy  tuie  Dn  Dtole   ngneri3     -        Itenoina  Bunoie                                          (  (       |                    AXCDI 
ES                                                                       _                                            GI7HdBUIIRAId /IIJ/<D J(`XP{aSINOR HERNCRGION  1  1  -110  1                N r»



