Document of
lLE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RE                    3                   Report No.P-1811a-Z
REPORTS L 1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
August 9, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its con tents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Zambian Kwacha K 1      US$1.2444
US$1                =   K 0.8036
ABBREVIATIONS
DBZ      -   Development Bank of Zambia
INDECO   -   Industrial Development Corporation
LME      -   London Metals Exchange
SITC     -   Standard International Trade Classification
TAZARA   -   Tanzania Zambia Railroad
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
second program loan for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to the Republic of
Zambia. The loan would lhave a term of 17 years including 3 1/2 years of grace,
with interest at 8.90 pe:rcent per annum,
PART I: THE ECONOMIC CRISIS AND THE GOVERNMENT'S AUSTERITY PROGRAM
2.        The last economic report on Zambia (Report No. 4a-ZA) was issued on
December 26, 1972. A basic economic mission visited Zambia in Jul]y 1975, and
its report is scheduled to be issued later this year. The information in this
report was gathered by this mission and also by three subsequent missions
which visited Zambia between October 1975 and April 1976 to prepare and
appraise the proposed program loan. Discussions took place against the
background provided by the Government's review of the Bank's Agricultural and
Rural Sector Survey (Report No. 84a-ZA dated October 20, 1975)o The most
recent economic data are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Zambia is pass-ing through its most severe economic crisis since
independence in 1964 as a result of the slump in world demand for copper
-and a succession of difficulties in getting this mineral to markets.  De-
spite near stagnation in output and exports over the past decade, copper
mining has continued to dlominate Zambia's economy. The extent of this do-
minance is illustrated byr the fact that, in 1975, a relatively unfavorable
year for mining, the sector still accounted for about one quarter of GDP,
more than 90 percent of mlerchandise export earnings, and 13 percent (more than
50 percent in 1974) of government revenues.   Such heavy reliance has had
unfortunate repercussions for the country. Widely fluctuating and unpredic-
table world copper prices have caused serious instability in government
revenues and the balance of payments. When prices were high, windfall re-
venues and foreign excharnge earnings created an aura of prosperity in which
it was difficult to husband resources so as to be able to weather periods
of low Drices without serious stresses.
4.        After reaching an all-time high of $1.52 per lb in April 1974,
copper prices declined rapidly. The average price for 1975, $0.56 per lb
was, compared with international prices of manufactured exports, the lowest
annual price since 1957, This difficulty was compounded by a series of
developments adversely ai.fecting landlocked Zambia. Until 1973, when the
border with Rhodesia was closed, the bulk of Zambia's trade was transported
This document has a mtrcktd distribution nd may be used by reipients only in the perfo(ane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwi2e be disclsed without World Dnk authorization.



- 2 -
through Rhodesia to and from the Mozambican ports of Beira and Nacala. After
the border's closure, the Benguela Railway and the port of Lobito in Angola
became a major route, carrying more than one half of Zambia's total exports
and a slightly smaller percentage of imports. With the war in Angola and
closure of Lobito, Zambian trade had to be diverted to other routes, a diffi-
cult and expensive undertaking.
5.        Zambia's export earnings from copper in 1975 dropped by 45 per-
cent compared with 1974. The balance of payments on current account turned
from $68 million surplus in 1974 to an estimated $719 million deficit in
1975. The country obtained a gross capital inflow in excess of $400 million
and purchased $67 million gross, $22 million net, from the IMF first credit
tranche, oil and compensatory finance facilities. During the year, net
foreign assets were reduced by $213 million while $156 million in arrears in
payments for imports and private transfers were accumulated. At the end of
the year, Zambia's international reserves (gross) stood at only $147 million,
the equivalent of only slightly more than one month's imports (Annex I, page 4
and Appendix, Table 3).
6.        The impact on government revenues was equally devastating.    Reve-
nues in 1975 declined by 30 percent, reflecting in part a $435 million fall in
revenue from mining (income tax, minerals tax, withholding tax on dividends to
shareholders and dividends to the Government). Meanwhile, recurrent expendi-
tures climbed by more than 30 percent. Government wages went up by 25 percent;
subsidy payments to enterprises and for fertilizer, maize, and other foods
increased by 75 percent while substantial debt service payments were made.
The result was an unprecedented $490 million budget deficit as compared to a
$132 million surplus in 1974. The deficit was financed largely by increases
in government borrowing from the monetary system. The money supply expanded
by only 21 percent since reductions in foreign assets offset a large part
of the increase in government borrowing.
7.        In January 1976, the Government announced a series of austerity
measures including a reduction in recurrent budget expenditures (mainly by
sharply reducing subsidies), and also net capital expenditures: increases
in customs duties and sales, excise and income taxes; and other measures to
reduce demand and encourage savings,while it was keeping imports and foreign
exchange transactions under control until the need for restrictions could be
gradually reduced. On July 9, the Government announced a central rate for the
kwacha to be maintained against the SDR rather than in terms of the US dollar.
The central rate of Kl = SDR 1.085 represented a 20 percent devaluation compared
with the previous rate of Kl = US$1.554.
8.        The 20 percent realignment is an important step towards restoring
Zambia's international competitiveness; it is expected to promote greater
export diversification and more appropriate import substitution, and thereby
assure a better utilization of labor and other domestic resources. The impact
of the devaluation on the government budget receipts, particularly mineral
revenues, will be minimal until the mining companies generate sufficient
profits and thus enlarge the taxable basis. Basically, the need for an



- 3 -
exchange rate adjustment stemmed from the rapid wage increases that took place
in recent years. More recently, Zambia's position on the international
markets further deteriorated; the currencies of several nearby countries -
Zaire, Malawi, most of those in the East African Community and the Rand
monetary area - had be!en devalued and the kwacha, being tied to the US
dollar, had appreciated against the currencies of several of Zambia's major
trading partners.
9.        Recurrent expenditures in 1976 are now budgeted at 11 percent below
the 1975 preliminary actual recurrent expenditure. This sharp reduction is a
central part of the austerity program. The largest single source of savings
is a 40 percent reduction in subsidies, particularly those aimed at lowering
the retail prices of maize and fertilizers. In order to provide room for
increasing producer prices while reducing subsidies, the Government in mid-1975
and February 1976 increased consumer prices substantially -- maize meal, the
major item in the Zambian diet, by 25 percent for coarse and 120 percent for
refined; wheat flour by 85 percent; bread by 33 percent; fresh milk by 18
percent (28 percent for reconstituted milk); sugar by 14 percent; and edible
oils and fats by 26 and 30 percent,respectively. Prices of fertilizers (used
mainly by commercial farmers) also increased by 65 percent. Further, in an
effort to keep wages in line with prevailing economic conditions within the
country, the Government will not increase the salaries of Government employees
during 1976 and 1977 and will attempt to hold the line on wage increases in
parastatal organizations. Later, as economic conditions improve, increases in
wages will be linked to productivity gains.
10.       On the revenue side, the 1976 budget aims to accelerate diver-
sification of its revenue base through increasing the rates of both in-
direct and direct taxes. Most customs duties on consumer goods have been
raised by 5 to 10 percentage points, with much higher increases for luxury
goods such as liquor and motor cars; the basis for the assessment of duties
also has been changed from an FOB to a CIF basis. A 5 percent duty on imports
of raw materials and intermediate goods has been introduced and taxation
extended to cover all capital goods (those for mining and agriculture were
formerly exempt). Sales tax coverage has been widened; the rate of the tax
on expatriate wages has been raised from 5 to 10 percent, and various license
fees have been increased. The rate schedule of income tax also has been
revised upward (with a 75 percent top marginal rate) and steps have been taken
to improve collection. Altogether, non-mineral revenues are expected to yield
15 percent more in 1976 than in 1975.
11.       With the drastic reduction in capital expenditures in 1976, no
single sector has remairLed unaffected (Appendix, Table 1). The 1976 budget
estimates of total capital expenditures, including gross lending to public
institutions, amounted to K156.6 million which is 45 percent less than the
-1975 budget and 37 percent less than the preliminary actuals for
1975. Investments in health and education have been cut least, while the
largest reductions have taken place in trade and industry (mainly for parasta-
tals), local government and general services. Priority was given to projects



- 4 -
supported by substantial foreign financing and to projects whose implementation
was already far advanced. Portions of many ongoing projects have been curtailed
or postponed. Only a few new investments will be started, such as improvements
in the important road which connects Zambia with the railway to the ports in_
Mozambique. The specific sectoral allocations not only reflect government
priorities, but also take account of the number and quality of projects in
each ministry's program and the capacity of the administration to implement
the projects effectively. Unfortunately these criteria have operated against
the Ministry of Rural Development whose capacity to plan and execute sound
investments has been relatively limited.
12.       Close to 90 percent of the cuts in the initial budget allocations
for rural development result from reductions in the allocations to government
parastatals. Transfers to the National Marketing Board and the Cold Storage
Board will only be KO.6 million in 1976, compared with more than K10 million
in 1975. However, capital expenditure of the Ministry of Rural Development
proper will be only 24 percent below that of 1975, and rural development expendi-
tures channeled through the provinces only 19 percent less. In connection
with the proposed loan, the Government has provided for a supplementary rural
development budget allocating K2.3 million for critically affected agricultural
and feeder road projects plus K0.4 million in recurrent expenditure for agri-
culture (Schedule 4, Loan Agreement). Although this supplementary budget does
not restore all of the amounts initially requested for rural development, it
does provide finance for items of crucial importance in amounts which the
implementing agencies are able to use effectively.
13.        The overall government deficit would be reduced from about K315 million
in 1975 to about K162 million in 1976 (Appendix, Table 2). There is a reasonable
chance that the necessary additional sources of finance will materialize, but, if
they do not, the Government will have to make additional, difficult reductions in
public expenditure. Whereas over two thirds of government financial needs were
met by the banking system in 1975, current inflationary pressures do not permit
heavy reliance on such credit expansion.
14.       To encourage savings and restrict credit expansion, the Govern-
ment increased the discount rate and the interest rates on deposits and
Treasury bills while raising the liquidity and demand deposit ratios of the
commercial banks. It is expected that the net domestic assets of the banking
system will increase by no more than 17 percent in 1976 compared with 59
percent in 1975; such a slowdown in credit expansion should contribute greatly
to stabilizing the economy.
15.        Reducing subsidies and increasing consumer prices required consider-
able political courage on the part of the Government and reflects the extent of
the Government's concern about the current financial crisis, as well as the
need for providing adequate price incentives for agricultural production. The
Government's recent performance gives a positive indication that it intends to
carry out programs and policies to achieve its objectives of economic growth
and social equity.



- 5 -
PART II: THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
16.       During the decade since independence, the domestic product grew
at a relatively low rate of 3.4 percent per annum. Although investment
averaged 27 percent of GDP, the efficiency of the capital invested has been
relatively low. This has been due in part to its concentration in both
economic and social infrastructure, including the large transport invest-
ment needed to reroute Zambia's trade after Rhodesia's 1965 unilateral de-
claration of independence and the closure of the border in 1973. Other
factors contributing to high capital output ratios have been the wide dis-
persion and lack of focus in agricultural investment and difficulties in the
mining sector which hindered planned expansion in production. There have,
however, been important positive developments. The manufacturing
sector developed rapidly and contributed significantly to diversification:
more importantly, recent events suggest that the Government now is focusing
its attention on the crucial problem of agricultural and rural development.
Mining
17.       Since 1969, when it obtained a majority interest in the two major
mining companies, the Government has attempted to promote the growth of copper
production. The Second National Development Plan (1972-76) projected that
copper production would rise from 700,000 to 900,000 tons over the five-year
period. To date,production has not increased owing to: (a) the fact that in the
early years most of the substantial investments that took place in the mines had
to be directed towards replacement with the only goal of maintaining productive
capacity (prior to the takeover, the private companies had been reluctant to
replace obsolete equipment); (b) the failure of a major mine, which was
flooded in 1970, to regain its former level of production; and (c) the 1973
border closure with Rhodesia which caused a major rerouting of imports and
hence delays in obtaining equipment and parts. Zambia's two mining companies
have recently started to expand but their ability to continue their programs
will depend in part upon copper prices. At the copper price levels prevailing
over the past year, bcth companies have been running at losses. Even though
they have borrowed heavily to finance their investments, several important
projects have been postponed because of a shortage of funds. At copper prices
for 1976 and the following years as projected by the Bank, it should be
possible for the mining companies to carry out their investment program using
retained earnings and borrowed funds. The recent exchange rate adjustment
will also help these companies to recover from the squeeze exerted by rising
costs in local currency. On this basis, it is expected that copper production
will expand to 800,000 tons by 1980.
Manufacturing
18.       Since 1965 manufacturing output has expanded at a rate of 12 percent
per annum and its share in GDP (13.2 percent in 1974) now exceeds that of
agriculture (10.5 percent). The rapid development of the manufacturing sector
has made a significant contribution to the Government's goal of diversification,
as well as providing employment for a growing number of migrants from rural
areas. Over the past decade the Government has participated in the industrial



sector mainly through the Industrial Development Corporation (INDECO). Today,
INDECO holds a majority interest in virtually all major manufacturing enter-
prises and is continuing to generate an overall profit, though lower than in
recent years, in spite of transportation problems and the rise in raw materials'
costs. Private initiative and capital, however, continue to play an important
role, particularly in small- and medium-scale enterprises. At present, the
private and parastatal sectors each account for about half of both manufactur-
ing value added and employment. The extent of import substitution and addi-
tional employment generated by the sector's rapid growth have fallen short of
expectations. Many of INDECO's investments in particular have been in final
assembly or in processing industries requiring substantial imports and have
tended to be capital intensive (e.g., the automobile assembly plant and the
oil refinery). The Government is emphasizing not only the need for further
development of manufacturing as part of its diversification program, but also
the need to increase import substitution, especially for food products, and to
expand employment. In this connection, the Government in 1973 created the
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ), to which the Bank extended a $15.0 million
loan in February 1976. DBZ, according to its Statement of Policy, will
give priority to projects which help save foreign exchange, create employment
and utilize local raw materials. It provides medium- and long-term loans
and equity financing, not only for industrial projects, but for commercial
agricultural production and agricultural processing projects as well. For
projects in rural areas, DBZ has established a Special Fund for Rural
Development to finance on concessionary terms rural projects otherwise eligi-
ble for DBZ financing but which could not be financed on normal terms. The
Government in January 1976 announced that it will provide a further incentive
to locating manufacturing in rural areas in the form of a reduction in company
tax rates during the first five years of operation.
Education
19.       At independence Zambia probably had fewer skilled citizens than
virtually any other former British colony. At that time there were only
about 100 Zambian university graduates and approximately 1,500 secondary
school graduates. The expansion of the educational system has received high
priority in every development plan and the results achieved have been truly
impressive. In the past ten years the University of Zambia alone produced
over 860 graduates, while the number of students finishing the final year of
secondary school increased to about 6,500 per annum. Enrollment in primary
schools more than doubled during the same period and now encompasses 90
percent of the relevant age group; secondary school enrollment, although
currently only 15 percent (61,000 pupils) of the applicable age group, has
quadrupled since 1965. The educational system has also broadened from a
traditional formal schooling pattern to include technical, agricultural,
teacher training and adult education programs. Despite these impressive achieve-
ments, however, insufficient qualified manpower continues to be a serious con-
straint to the country's development. Shortages are particularly acute among
secondary school teachers and in professional, technical and managerial areas.
The Government is making strong efforts to overcome these problems.



-7-
Infrastructure
20.       Zambia has made large investments in physical infrastructure.
Transport, communication., power and works accounted for 46 percent of the
1972-74 public investmeni: program and are budgeted at about 50 percent
of the 1975 and 1976 programs. Of necessity many of the investments have
been large -- the cost oi1 three major power projects since independence
will exceed $500 million., while that of the TAZARA railway will be more
than $200 million. Most construction projects in Zambia are relatively ex-
pensive, in any case, because of high transport charges for imported materials.
Zambia's large area and widely dispersed population also add substantially
to the costs of providing infrastructure. In its development program,
the Government has emphasized building transport facilities for moving im-
ports and exports to and from ports and providing electric power for the
copper. industry. Recently, increasingly more attention has been
given to telecommunications, electricity and roads in rural areas. With the
progress that Zambia has already achieved in developing its infrastructure,
it is expected that relatively less capital will be required for such invest-
ment in the future. This should free funds for additional investment in the
productive sectors such as agriculture.
Agriculture and Rural Development
21.       So far Zambia has made only limited progress in agriculture and
rural development. The most pronounced characteristic of the agricultural
sector is its dualism. At one extreme are about 600,000 smallholder sub-
sistence farmers, widely dispersed through the countryside, using only hand
tools, generally without animal or mechanical power, following traditional
farming practices. These farmers produce primarily for their own require-
ments, with small marketable surpluses from which they derive very meager
incomes, Average family sales are estimated at only about $85 a year. Major
subsistence crops are maize, groundnuts, and free-grazed beef. Transforming
this traditional sector is a difficult long-term process.
22.       At the other extreme are large state farms and an economically
important group of. about 600 commercial farmers. The commercial farmers
are located on state land., under leasehold, and occupy about 3 percent of
Zambia. Their farms are Large and the land is good, Their farms are close
to the line-of-rail and have good access to markets. They use modern methods
to produce cereals, dairy products, beef, poultry and eggs for the urban
market and tobacco for-;export. Besides experienced expatriate and Zambian
commercial farmers there is a growing number of "emergent farmers" who are
just entering the commercial, sector, In total, commercial farming (public and
private, Zambian and non--?Zambian) accounts for 60 percent of the maize, 35
percent of the.beef and over half of the milk, pork and tobacco produced and
marketed domestically.



- 8 -
23.       Despite plentiful land resources for crops and livestock, the
overall performance of agriculture has been disappointing. During the past
ten years, output expanded only 1.7 percent per annum on the average, result-
ing in greater reliance on imports of food and agricultural raw materials.
In 1974, approximately 40 percent of the value of Zambia's marketed food was
imported; the major imported items (e.g., beef and dairy products, wheat,
edible oils and cotton) were all products in which the country possesses
a significant potential.
24.       For a long time, the Government's economic development strategy did
not give the agriculture sector the priority it deserved. While proper
incentives to increase output were not addressed to farmers, public invest-
ment failed to set the stage for the longer term development of the rural
areas. The prices of agricultural products, most of which are fixed by
government marketing boards, were not allowed to rise as rapidly as those
of manufactured goods. This resulted in discouraging production and depress-
ing farm incomes and, with the rapid rise in modern sector wages, the gap
between urban and rural areas widened. At the same time, investments in
agriculture were insufficient in volume and, over a long period, the schemes
suffered from inadequate planning and implementation, largely because of the
shortage of qualified personnel and weak organization.
25.       It is against this background that the Government has begun in the
last two years to devote greater attention to the rural areas and to seek
the means of improving its overall economic strategy. It has designed a
number of programs aimed at reorienting attitudes (particularly among youth)
toward rural work and living. Thus, all those who leave secondary school
are supposed to serve two years in agricultural and paramilitary training
in rural work camps organized by the National Service, a semi-autonomous
operation in the Defense Ministry. Also, a School Production Unit Program
was recently initiated under which each secondary school, both urban and
rural, is to have a small farming unit to produce food. All students would
work in this unit under the guidance of specially trained agriculture teachers.
Third, a Village Production Unit Program which has not yet been organized
is to be a vehicle for mobilizing the rural population for development.
Finally, the Rural Reconstruction Program, also under the Zambia National
Service, is probably the most ambitious of the four programs.
26.       The Rural Reconstruction Program was launched last year mainly to
provide rural employment and slow the flow of young migrants to urban areas.
Plans are to ultimately establish 250 Rural Reconstruction Centers (5 in
each of the country's 50 districts), where about 800 youths per center will
settle, construct living quarters and other facilities, and clear the land
for crop, poultry and livestock production on a communal basis. Graduates of
the Zambia National Service and army personnel provide the day-to-day instruc-
tion, supervision and discipline, with technical assistance from the Ministry
of Rural Development extension staff. During the first year, 50 centers, each



- 9 -
with about 150-200 residents, have been set up. The program, however, has not
fully addressed the overall problem of rural development in Zambia, either in
terms of concept or execution. It has concentrated on reducing youthful un-
employment, but has neglected the urgent task of increasing the productivity
of traditional subsistence farmers. Moreover, at least in its initial stages,
the program has proved too costly for wide-scale replication in Zambia's
present financial climate. However, it is an indication of the Government's
serious concern about rural development.
27.       Other favorable indications include the steady increase in Govern-
ment-sponsored sugar output which enabled Zambia to reach self-suEficiency
last year; a further expansion now being planned would be oriented towards
exports. A Canadian-assisted project is developing rainfed wheat cultivation
and a joint Chinese-Zambian project is establishing a rice research station
to identify suitable varieties and farming methods as the first step in
expanding output. The Government is also attempting to revive cotton produc-
tion by providing inputs and marketing facilities to registered farmers (5,000
this year) and, in an effort to reduce edible oil imports, has introduced new
oil-yielding groundnut varieties. In addition, INDECO is considering large-
scale oilseed production to supply newly constructed milling and refining
facilities.
28.       Despite these relatively recent developments, a well-coordinated
approach still remains to be defined. The Bank's Agricultural and Rural Sector
Survey suggested a two-pronged strategy based upon (1) transforming the rural
sector by focusing public investments and services in areas of high growth
potential, and (2) obtaining more immediate increases in output through improved
pricing policies and bet:er marketing. This report, which was discussed at
the highest levels of government, including the President, has been instru-
mental in the dialogue the Bank has had with Zambia. Along these lines, the
Ministry of Rural Development is identifying an agricultural project which
the Bank will be asked tc, finance and, in this connection, a Bank mission
visited Zambia, at the Government's request, at the end of July.
29.       With respect ta agricultural policies, current developments are
reasonably encouraging. The Government has very recently taken politically
difficult measures in direct support of the agricultural sector. Most im-
portantly, it has increased prices of agricultural products (para. 9). In
addition, it has decided to strengthen the institutions responsible for rural
development (para. 44) and to give a greater role to price mechanisms (para.
45).
The Third National Development Plan
30.       The Third National Development Plan (1977-81), presently under
preparation, reaffirms the Government's intention to emphasize rural devel-
opment. In fact, it states that agriculture will replace copper as the main
source of economic growth. Among the Plan's main objectives are raising income



- 10 -
levels in the subsistence sector, reducing disparities between rural and urban
incomes, and diversifying the economy to reduce dependence on mining. In line
with these objectives, the Plan would specify programs, projects and policies
for raising the productivity of traditional farmers and encouraging commercial
farmers to expand output while reducing the country's reliance on food imports.
Other measures for rural development would also be envisaged, such as improved
health and educational facilities, village water supplies, transport, and
communications (para. 59).
PART III: THE FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
31.       In the short-term, the implementation of Zambia's ambitious develop-
ment program will be affected by the austerity measures taken in response to
exceptional financial constraints. Despite the substantial reduction in
current expenditures and the measures taken to increase revenues, the Govern-
ment was forced to curtail the 1976 capital budget. Additional finance,
however, is still needed to balance the country's external payments. After
assessing the magnitude of these financial requirements, this report will
review Zambia's creditworthiness in the light of its long-term economic
prospects.
The 1976 Balance of Payments
32.       In 1976, the current account of the balance of payments is expected
to improve significantly over the previous year. However, because it would
be inadvisable to rely heavily on drawing down net foreign exchange reserves
(as Zambia did during 1975) and because it is necessary to reduce payments
in arrears, the country's capital requirements will continue to be large.
33.       It is now assumed that 650,000 tons of copper will be exported
during the year, an amount similar to that of 1975. There have been uncer-
tainties as to whether the port of Dar-es-Salaam, in particular, will be able
to handle the quantities expected to be shipped. However, recent
performance indicates that the port should be able to do so and, barring
new unforseen contingencies, Zambia should therefore sustain its export
level.
34.       With respect to copper prices, it is expected that the current
recovery will bring the yearly average of the London Metals Exchange (LME)
price close to the Bank's forecast of $0.67 per lb, compared with $0.56 per lb
in 1975. If the Zambian Government is successful in reducing the value of
merchandise imports from $950 million to about $700 million through the
restrictive credit and budgetary policies outlined above, the current account
deficit would be about $310 million, implying a 57 percent reduction from that
of 1975 (Appendix, Table 3). Financing the smaller 1976 deficit, however,
will be difficult, since more than 50 percent of the previous year's deficit
was financed through a reduction in net foreign exchange reserves and an
accumulation of arrears in payments. At the end of 1975, Zambia's net



- 11 -
foreign exchange reserves were negative (minus $98 million). The Government
has arranged for purchases from the IMF under the expanded first, second
and third credit tranches, compensatory financing and oil facilities
(para. 41). It is expected that Zambia's net foreign exchange reserves will
be reduced by an amount equivalent to its increase in liabilities to the IMF
during 1976 - SDR 47.8 million or $55 million. The country is taking steps to
bring about a $76 million reduction in the amount of payments in arrears.
35.       On this basis, Zambia's capital requirements for 1976 are tenta-
tively estimated at about $380 million (Appendix, Table 3). This is a conser-
vative estimate to the extent that it does not provide for any improvement in
Zambia's reserve position nor for "errors and omissions" that amounted to more
than $100 million in each of the last two years. About $270 million are
expected to be disbursed from loans previously contracted before the end of
1975. In addition, Zambia recently recqived a special grant from the United
Kingdom for the equivalent of $10 millidn and expects shortly to receive
another special grant of about $8 million equivalent from the European
Economic Community. Taking into account these resources, in 1976 Zambia would
need an estimated additional $95 million in external financing. Although
there is uncertainty at this time, the Government's recent exchange rate
measures and adoption of an austerity piogram should materially improve
Zambia's prospects for obtaining the additional finance needed. The pro-
posed program loan also should assist substantially in this regard. For
1977, Zambia's capital requirements are not expected to decline sig-
nificantly. While exports should increase with the projected rise in
copper prices, this prospect will be countered by the need to allow imports
to increase in order to ease constraints on economic growth and by the need
for Zambia to build up ii:s depleted foreign'exchange reserves. Against this
background, the prospects for such borrowing must be evaluated in terms of
the economy's long-term prospects and the country's creditworthiness.
The Longer Term Prospects
36.       Zambia has relied on external capital assistance to an extent
similar to that of other African countries of comparable population and
income. The terms of this assistance have varied, ranging from the very
concessionary terms given by the People's Republic of China to suppliers'
credits and Eurodollar loans. The Bank is the country's third largest
creditor after the People's Republic of China and private banks. Zambia's
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to $948 million at
the end of 1975. In fac:, owing to the magnitude of its export earnings --
equivalent to about 50 percent of GDP -- Zambia's debt service ratio has
generally been low (e.g., only 8 percent in 1975).
37.       With respect to the future, Zambia's capital requirements and
debt service burden will depend to a considerable extent upon the develop-
ments in the copper sector. First, the investment programs of the mining
companies indicate that, after a decade of stagnation, copper production and
exports should expand from 650,000 to 800,000 tons between 1976 and 1980 and
at about 2 percent per annum thereafter.   Second, according to Bank long-term



- 12 -
forecasts for copper and international prices, the improvement in Zambia's
terms of trade, over 1975, should be 50 percent by 1980, (with most of the
improvement occurring by 1978) and 67 percent by 1985. Third, the recovery
from the present recession may take about a year, but thereafter, as mining
output expands and import controls are loosened, GDP should grow for a few
years at about 5 percent per annum. In the 1980's, overall income growth may
slow down to 4 percent per annum,owing to the lower rate of expansion in the
mining sector. On this basis, Zambia's gross capital requirements would
cumulatively amount to about $1.8 billion over the next five years. Its debt
service ratio would rise from 8 percent in 1975 to 15 percent in 1980 and then
decline to about 12 percent in 1985 (Appendix, Table 4).
38.       These projections are very sensitive to copper prices.     If this
price in each year is 10 percent lower than is currently forecast by the
Bank, Zambia's terms of trade would still improve, but its current account
deficits would increase fivefold in current terms and its capital requirements
would reach $3.0 billion over the 1977-81 period. Its debt service ratio
would then reach 23 percent in 1985.
39.       Creditworthiness depends upon a country's ability to mobilize
domestic resources to make service payments as well as upon the burden of
debt service on its export earnings. The Government has made substantial
efforts in recent years to broaden the tax base and increase tax rates.
Nevertheless, increases in non-mineral tax revenues have generally been
less rapid than the growth of non-mineral GDP and there is still need for
improving the responsiveness of the tax system to economic growth. Moreover,
because the presence of mineral revenues has led to the illusion of abundant
resources, the Government in the past has allowed recurrent expenditures to
expand rapidly, mainly for wages, subsidies and defense. Despite the recent
drastic cuts, there is still room to reduce certain recurrent expenditures,
especially subsidies. It is perhaps more important for the Government to
maintain greater control over the future expansion of recurrent expenditures.
Toward this end, the Government has adopted a policy under which recurrent
expenditures will be covered by non-mineral revenues while mineral revenues
would be used for capital expenditures. Mineral revenues will be placed in a
special account whenever copper prices exceed a certain level and withdrawn to
finance development expenditures whenever prices fall below that level (para.
47).
PART IV - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
Description of the Program
40.        Negotiations for the proposed program loan were part of a continuing
dialogue between the Zambian Government and the Bank. This dialogue, built up
progressively over the past few years, has included a previous program loan,
an Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey, a Basic Economic Mission which
visited Zambia in June/July 1975 and three special missions between September



- 13 -
1975 and April 1976. These missions discussed the Government's plans for
agricultural and rural development in considerable depth with a wide range of
officials (including the President). In addition, the last three missions
reviewed economic development and government policy measures in the context
of the Government's request in September 1975 for program loan assistance.
Their findings constitute the background against which the proposed loan was
appraised.
41.       In November 1975 the International Monetary Fund agreed to purchases
by the Government of Zambia under the first credit tranche, oil and compensa-
tory facilities totalling SDR 56.9 million. In 1975, the net use of IMF
resources amounted to SDIR 18.9 million ($22.9 million) as a result of re-
purchase obligations and delayed purchases. An IMF mission visited Zambia in
March 1976 to discuss requests for further purchases involving the use of the
first and second credt tranches and most of the enlarged third tranche. On
July 26, the IMF approved a standby arrangement for a period of one year in an
amount equivalent to SDR 62.0 million ($71.3 million). This standby became
effective in August 1976. During 1976, phased drawings under the standby
agreement plus the use of other Fund facilities will give Zambia access to IMF
resources totalling SDR 41.8 million ($55 million).
42.       The austerity program on which the standby arrangement with the
IMF is based has been to a large extent implemented since early 1976. As
described above (Part I),, the Government has taken a number of measures
which should go a long way towards restoring balance of payments equilibrium,
expanding and diversifying the government revenue base and improving budget
performance mainly through the reduction of subsidies. In addition to more
restrictive budgetary and credit policies, the adjustment in the exchange
rate system should lay the basis for sound economic development.
43.       The Bank missions that visited Zambia found that the Government
was taking appropriate steps to remedy the short-term impact of the current
crisis and discussed with it a set of policies aimed at correcting the struc-
tural imbalance of the economy. Current policies and development schemes are
putting an increased emphasis on diversification of the economy, improvement
of the productivity of agriculture and a better balance between the urban and
rural sectors.
44.       These are the special circumstances under which this program loan
for the equivalent of $30 million is proposed. In connection with the
proposed loan, the Bank obtained understandings from the Zambian Government on
several important aspects. First, that the Government will take steps to
substantially strengthen the key Ministry of Rural Development and provin-
cial administrative structures. The Government has already indicated its
awareness of the problem and the necessity for alleviating it. A supplementary
budget has recently been passed that will increase the allocation to rural
development by K2.7 million (para. 12). Besides requesting assistance from
bilateral sources for the preparation of projects, the Government in-
formed the Bank that it will develop a program to strengthen both the
Ministry and the'provincial administrations (Supplemental Letter No. 1).



- 14 -
This will accord with the Government's plans for decentralizing national
administration.
45.       Second, the Government agreed on the importance of ensuring that
the price mechanisms would play an appropriate role in the allocation of
resources and the production process in the agricultural sector. The Bank
obtained understandings that the Government will review the price structure
of agricultural commodities and production inputs on a periodic basis and
take whatever measures might be needed to maintain adequate price incentives
for production. Further, such prices will be announced well in advance of the
planting season to allow farmers sufficient time to plan their production
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (a) and (b).
46.       The above two sets of measures will assist materially in increasing
the implementation capacity of the rural sector and in encouraging agricultural
output. The Bank would support this development through expanded operations
in the rural sector and technical assistance (Part V)0
47.       Finally, Bank and IMF missions have discussed with the Government
the necessity of curbing rapid growth in recurrent expenditures and providing
for a more stable expansion of government development expenditures, To attain
these objectives, the Government has decided that in the future recurrent
expenditures will be covered by non-mineral revenues while all mineral reven-
ues and any surpluses from the recurrent budget will be used to finance
capital expenditures (Supplemental Letter No. 2), In addition, the Government
will plan for a steady growth of development expenditures at a rate consistent
with the country's long-run development needs and the availability of finan-
cial resources. In years when the recurrent budget surplus and mineral
revenues, after taking into account foreign and domestic borrowing, are larger
than needed to finance a suitable level of development expenditures, the
excess amount will be used to build up government balances, These balances
will be used to finance development expenditures in years when mineral reven-
tues, the recurrent surplus, and the proceeds from external borrowing are
insufficient for this purpose. A special government Development Equalization
Account will be established and managed, in order to provide for more steady
growth in development expenditures.
Description of the Loan and Disbursement and Procurement Procedures
48,       The proposed loan is designed to help finance a minimum level
of imports required to maintain a reasonable level of production in agri-
culture, manufacturing and mining, and to support an appropriate investment
program of the Government, Foreign excharge provided under the loan would
be used for imports of raw materials, chenicals, intermediate goods, ma-
chinery and transport equipment. Iron and steel, agricultural machinery,
railway equipment, machine spares and trucks are expected to be among the
major items imported. Manufactured fertilizers, consumer goods, luxury items
and f el have been exciuded (Schedule I, Loan Agreement)0



- 15 -
49.       The government system for allocating foreign exchange gives prior-
ity to imports most needed to maintain reasonable levels of production. A
ministerial committee now sets the overall foreign exchange allocation
on an annual basis, after which a technical committee allocates spec-
ific amounts for various end uses, based on country priorities and pre-
vious levels of imports. Priority has been assigned to imports for
mining, agriculture and nanufacturing. The Ministry of Commerce issues
import licenses to specific public and private sector importers according
to the importer's previous allocations, turnover and number of employees.
The Bank of Zambia also reviews the licenses before making foreign exchange
available. Imports of petroleum and goods tied to certain foreign loans,
including Bank projects, are handled separately, and imports for the mining
companies are made under open general licenses.
50.       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made, on a reim-
bursement basis, against full documentation, including an invoice, a bill of
lading and evidence of payment. All disbursement applications to the Bank
would be forwarded by a special unit in the Bank of Zambia set up specifically
for the processing of the proposed loan (Section 3.01 (b), Loan Agreement).
In order to simplify processing, invoices for import expenditures of less than
$5,000 equivalent would 'not be eligible for reimbursement; it is expected that
most of the loan will be disbursed against much larger invoices, Loan proceeds
would not be disbursed against any imports financed from external sources.
51.       Loan proceeds would be used for imports of both the public and
private sectors. The import licensing and foreign exchange allocation pro-
cedures would apply to both sectors. The private sector follows normal commer-
cial procurement practices, while public sector agencies follow the procurement
procedures of the CentraL Tender Board. The Board requires advertisement in
the Government Gazette and in trade newspapers allowing at least eight weeks'
notice for the submissiona of bids.  Practically all countries from which
purchases are likely to be made are represented by missions in Zambia; the
procedures therefore ensure full opportunity for participation by foreign
suppliers. The bids would be evaluated on the basis of prescribed pro-
cedures and contracts awarded by the Central Tender Board to the lowest
evaluated bidder. ExperLence with Bank-financed projects indicates that the
Central Tender Board's procedures are adequate to ensure economic procurement
of goods.
Counterpart Funds
52,       The Government would establish a special project account in the
Ministry of Finance to which the kwacha equivalent of the imports financed
under the proposed loan would be credited. The Government would transfer
funds from the project account to cover expenditures under the Capital
Budget in the following categories:   Rural Development, Mines and Industries,
Finance, Power, Transport and Works, Education, Lands and Natural Resources,
Health, Development Planning, Provincial Cabinet Allocations and Local Gov-
ernment and Housing. Withdrawals from the project account would also cover
expenditures under the Supplementary 1976 Capital and Recurrent Budget for



- 16 -
the Ministry of Rural Development and Offices of Provincial Cabinet Minis-
ters. Transfers from the project account would be made by the Government
periodically for the aforementioned purposes and reported to the Bank.
The use of the counterpart funds would be limited to those expenditures which
are not otherwise financed by external sources.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
53.       The proposed loan would be the twenty-first to Zambia since lend-
ing operations began in 1956. The loans made to date amount to a total
of $470 million, of which $323 million (69 percent) financed ten physical
infrastructure projects. Loans for power (three quarters of the lending
for infrastructure), transportation and communications have helped landlocked
Zambia develop the basic facilities essential for its mining industry and
growing manufacturing sector, as well as its commercial agricultural sector.
In education, three Bank loans have helped materially to expand and develop
secondary schools and technical and teacher training, which Zambia must
have to produce critically needed trained manpower. The Bank also made one
loan in 1974 to improve the living conditions of a large squatter community
in Lusaka and more recently made a loan to the Development Bank of Zambia
(DBZ) to assist diversification of the economy. Because of slow disbursements
and a subsequent sharp rise in copper prices, a $30 million program loan made
in 1973 was not fully drawn down; the undisbursed balance ($17.1 million) was
cancelled in March 1974. Ten loans are now fully disbursed, one has been
cancelled and the disbursed portion prepaid (627-ZA). In 1975, the Bank's
share in Zambia's total public debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 19 percent,
while the Bank's share in Zambia's total debt service payments was 22 percent.
Present projections indicate that these percentages would be about 32 percent
and 18 percent, respectively, in the mid-1980's.
54.       IFC made its first investment in Zambia in 1972, providing $1.1
million (of which $227,500 is equity) for the expansion of a shoe manu-
facturing company, the Zambia Bata Shoe Company, Ltd. In 1973, the Corpora-
tion invested an additional $1.2 million in the same company for a tannery
based on local hides, primarily to provide a secure source of raw materials
for the shoe factory. A third investment was made in May 1975, providing
$1.04 million to Century Packages, Ltd. for a packaging materials factory.
Finally, IFC agreed in February 1976 to invest $550,000 equivalent in the
capital of the Development Bank of Zambia, in conjunction with the Bank loan
to that institution. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and
IFC investments as of June 30, 1976, along with notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
55.       The Bank's financial and technical assistance has made an impor-
tant contribution to Zambia's development, particularly in education and
power. While there have been a number of problems in the Bank's relationships
with Zambia over the past few years, the climate fortunately has much improved
and a continuing dialogue between the Bank and the Zambian Government has



- 17 -
been built up progressively. Overall, the Zambian Govermment and its agencies
have demonstrated satisfactory performance in the planning and execution of
development projects. As indicated earlier, the proposed loan would be
in support of the series of important policy measures which Zambia has
initiated to remedy the short-term impact of the current crisis and to correct
the longer-term structural imbalance of the economy. There is risk, however,
that the pressures generated by these measures (particularly those concerning
budgeting and pricing) might force the Government to reduce their impact and
dilute the current emphasis on economic diversification and rural development.
56.       One of the most: difficult areas has been in agricultural and rural
development. Here, the Bank made four loans during 1968-73 for industrial
forest plantation, livest:ock, commercial crops and integrated family farming.
At the Government's request, in 1973 the Bank cancelled the livestock loan
because the project was having serious troubles, due mainly to adverse pricing
policies and poor implementation. In March 1975 the Government withdrew
two agricultural projects which had been prepared with assistance from the
Bank. Until now, the Bank has made relatively little progress in assist-
ing the Government in preparing and implementing appropriate programs and
projects for agricultural and rural development. This failure, however,
largely reflects the Government's own weakness in making and carrying out
suitable policies and in formulating and implementing effective programs
for developing the rural sector. To help overcome the problem, the Bank,
at the Government's request, undertook a comprehensive Agricultural and
Rural Sector Survey in 1975. The report has stimulated wide discussions
about agricultural and rural-development at all levels of Government and
has played an important part in the Zambia-Bank dialogue.
57.       Besides the agricultural and rural sector, the Bank has recently
studied urbanization and water supply and sewerage. The basic economic
mission which visited Zambia in June/July 1975 examined in particuLar the
industrial and mining sectors, as well as manpower planning in its broadest
aspects. The reports of these missions will figure prominently in the con-
tinuing Bank-Zambian dialogue, especially in connection with the prepara-
tions underway for the Third National Development Plan.
58.       The Bank's future lending program will emphasize agricultural and
rural development to help diversify the economy and improve the living con-
ditions of the rural poor. Lending to industry and commercial agriculture
through the Development Bank of Zambia, also important to diversification,
will continue, as will support to the development of physical and social
infrastructure, although with declining emphasis on power and commtnications.
In all aspects of the Banlc's program, institution building also will con-
tinue to occupy a central position.
59.       In the field of agricultural and rural development, which commands
primary importance, the Government has begun identification and preparation of
the first of three agricultural projects, for which it expects to request Bank
financing during the next three years. The Bank's Regional Mission in East
Africa has already begun assisting iri identification and preparation work



- 18 -
(para 28). For the five-year period FY77-81, the Bank's lending for agricul-
ture is expected to be approximately one third of total lending. Bank assis-
tance in this sector, however, is not just limited to agricultural projects as
such. A Fourth Education Project, currently being appraised, has a major
component for training farmers and government agricultural workers. A second
Urbanization and a Rural Water Supply Project, both now under preparation,
will provide assistance to smaller towns in predominantly rural environs. A
Second Industrial Forestry Project is also being prepared which will help
finance forest plantations, logging, sawmilling and wood processing.
60.       Outside of the rural sector, a Bank mission was recently in Zambia
to preappraise the next stage of the country's hydropower development for
possible Bank financing in the coming year. Preparation is proceeding on a
Third Road Project, which will concentrate on improving road maintenance and
developing staff in the transport sector. Besides the rural components,
the education project mentioned above also provides assistance for technical
and vocational training, general educational services and a survey of the
Zambian construction industry. The urban project, in addition to the smaller
provincial towns, will include squatter upgrading and water supply development
in three copperbelt towns.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank, along with two supplemental letters from the Zambian Government,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a resolution ap-
proving the proposed loan, are being distributed separately.
62.       Features of particular interest are referred to in paragraphs 44, 45
and 47 of this report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMNENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 9, 1976



ANINEX T
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA                -0 SCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU 8H2)-------------------------
---------------                        ~~~~~ZAMBIA                             REFERENCE COUNYPIES ( 1910)
TOTAL        152.b                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.          ..1960                                1 9 70  ESTIMATE            GABON           CHILE           YUGOSLAVIA*
G.NP PER CAP17A (US$)                        21i0.O       1.10.0       5h0.0 AU120.0                     61.0.0       820.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)                 3 .2         4 .3         4..9 /b             0.5          9. '        2 0. 4
POPULATION DENSITY
PERA SQUARC- KM.                           4..o         6. 0         7.0 A               2 .0        1 3. 0       8 0.0
PEH, SQUARE KM. AGRIC. LAND                 8.C          .            .
VI TAL STATISTICS
CRtUDE AIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            4.9.5        4.9.7        51.5                31.8         32.8         21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND             23.1         20.9         20.3                25.7         10.9           9.1
INFANT MiORTALITY RATE (/THOU)              ...                       ..                              9.0        55.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)            38.5         1.3.5        441..               38.5         60.6          65.8
,,OSS REPRODU,CTION RATE                   .           3.3          3.3                 2.0          2.2          1.3
POPULATION GRDWT4l RATE (X)
T9 TAL                                     2 .8        2. 9         2.9 4e               1.0          2.4.         1.0
JiAlAN                                      .         1 3. 6 LG     6.611               8.0          3. 046
URBA N POPULA T ION ( % OF TOTAL)           20.0         3 0. 0       3 4. 0              32 .0        F6. 0         38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
S TO 14 YEARS                            45.   a     466.0          .34.0                           3 9.0       2 6.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                            51 . 0 4a b  51.0           .                 61.:0        56.3        65. 1
65 TEARS AND OVER                          4.0 Ia.b     3. 0                             5.0          4.7r         8.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                         1.0          1.0           .                  0.6          0.8           .
ECOlO-MIC DEPE-NDENCY RATIO                    .          1 .8          .                  0 .          1. 6
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                 ...                                           .
U5ERS Il OF MARRIED WOMEN)                  .             ..
EMPLOY MENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)                   ..                  1200.0                274.0 1     2600.0
LA9RT  FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (2)                ..                    54.0                 58.0         21.
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOIR FORCE)                           I 0. 0 Lb      ..                   ..         7.1
INCOME- DISTRIBUTION
OF PRIVATE- INCOME REC-D HY-
HiIGHEST  5Z OF HCyUSEH0LDS               33. 7         .                               45.3 Lb      31.0a        15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF )1O5gMLDS                  58 .2          .            .6 7.5                  b      55.8         4 1.4
LOWSET 20% OF     HMEWD                    5. 4          .                               3.2 lb       4. 8         6.6
LOmEST 401 OF    auSMOi.DS                1 3.0          .                               8.5   ;     1 3. 0       1 8.64
OISTRIWlUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
1 JOWNED BoY rop 10! OF OWNERS                .....                                          ...                    15. ZR
I OWNED 8Y SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                 ...                                            ...                   84.? aj
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 1 2-000. 0 Id 13580.0     811 0.0             ,5800.0       2010.aLL     1010.0
POPULATION PER NJRSING PERSON             3060.0 7e   29 40. 0     243 0. 0              600.0       5320C.OL      4 ~O. O
POPUJLATION PER HOSPITAL BED               350.0 I-f    31 0.0          ..100.0                       250.0        180.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (0 OF REQUIREMENTS)              87.0         88.0       112.0                 94.0        101.0       124.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   63.0        64.0         68.0                 56 0         71.0         92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                .         25. 0 Ic       .0 30.0                         32.0        2 9.0
DEATh RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                    ..                        ..                              3.9         2.5
EDU CA71ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           Ih7 0 /c     70.0/.        89.0o              168 .0       103.0/        94.
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           1.0 C)7     12.07e       13.0 d'             16O     6.0/d             65.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED360                                                                                      4    
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  12. 0       12. 0        1 2. 0               1 3.0        12. 0        1 2. 0
VOCATIONAL E-NROLLMENT
(1 OF SECONDARY)                          28.0         3.0          4.0                 15.0         33.0         72.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                     40.      .      .         4 3.0                30. 0       90.0         85.0
HOUSIN4G
PERSO;NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                    .          2. 6 Id        ..                             1. 3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                             ..        88. 0           .                              4 0.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                      28.0 La        .....
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                           ...                                           .
CONSUMPI ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)               9.0         18 l.c      23.0                126.0        143.0        163.0
'PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               11.0         14.0        15.0                 11.0         18.0         35.0
ELECTRICITY (VWH/YR PER CAP)               6 81 .0      957.0       1062.0AL             19 4 .0       80.0       1~88.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    0.8 a /h     0.5          0.6                   .          4. 8         4. 3
.--   - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - -  -- -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - --  - -  - -  -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 1 .Rpage
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-1961, for 1910 to 1968-1970, and for Most Recent Estimate to 1971-1973.
*5Yugoslavia has been selected as as objective country because it lies a higher degree of development with extensive stat-e participtaUo in industr-y
and comemere; also the agriculture sector, the dominant sector of employment, is deve.loping from a relatively los. level of productivity.
7AMBIA        1960     /.-  1963, Africam population osly;    /b 15-59 ye-ar and 60 and over respectively;       La  713 and 1-18-l  years of age respec-
tively;    /g   1962;    /a  1963, persomiel in government services only, including midisives and nursing auxiliaries;
If  1963;    Zg   Urban only;    A   Data for todesia and Malawi included;       a1  1962.
1970    /a  1965-69;     A   persons seeking work;     &   196h-66,     /d  Total, urban and rural;     A   5-12 and 13-li years ofags
respectively.
MOST RECENT ESTIKATE:     /a  1969-73;     &   1975;    Iac 1970-75;     /d  7-13 and lb-l8 years of age respectively;      /. 197h.
GABON         1970     /a  Active poPulation age 15-59;     A    Income recipient;    La  1964-66;     ag  12-18 jears of age.
CHILE         1970     /a  Gran Santiago;     A   Personel in government services only;      /c   6-13 and 14-17 years of age respectively.
YUrOSLAVIA    1970     /a  Agriculture land held by social sector "goibinate % and agriculture land held by small holders, respectively;
79 7-l1. and 15-18 years of age respectively.
R7. July 30, 1.976
DEINTITIOliS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Ares (thon hi2)                                                                   Populatiom  per nursing persmc - Population divided ky conker of precticing
Tutul1  Tutal surface ares comprising land area and inlsod watera.                        male sod femaole graduate curses, `traiced` or '1certified" careen, add
Mui. -sMot recent estimate of sericultural area used temporarily or                   susiliary personnel with training oreprin.
pemnanestly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardecs or to lie                 Poculatio  per hospitai hod - Population divided ky numcber of hospital beds
fallow                                                                                 available In public and private general sod opecislised hospital and
rehabilitation centers; esuludes moraing hmce sod estabiihaemnts for
cu  c  a;itgjplsiJ - lo  per capita estimates at current mar,ket prices,              custodial and preventive care.
san 3e conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);           per capita supply of calories a% of requirements) - Computed from esergy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              equivalect of net food aupplies avai1ahle ic countty pot capita per day,
available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports,
P .culation and vital statisti.e                                                          and changeu in stack; set supplies seclude animal feed, seeds, quaoti-
Fpopultion (mid-yr. ot1ilo) - As of July first,    if sa  -vilable,                      tics used is food pr-necing and losses is dictribution; requiresmta
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                           were estimated by FAO hased on physiological needs for cormal activity
and health considering ...vircs,sects1 tonperatror, body wdights, age sod
sea discributions of popolation, sod allowing 102 far was te at house-
P.uslati-s density - pler asoure so C Mid-yea   population pot square kilo-                hold level.
ma ter (105 hectares) of total area.                                                 Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protaic content of put
Population density - Per square usm of a,c. land - ComPuted as shove fur                  capita set supply of fdod per day; mar supply of fend to defined so
agricultural land only.                                                                 shove;' requireoents for all couotriea establishedtby USDA Economic
vitai statistics                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Research Ser-ices provide for a minimum allowane of 60 gram  of total
vital Statistics                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~prorali, pee day, and 20 lys- 'of animal sod pulse Prcei, cf which
Crude birth rate per thous...d - Anusul live hirtha put thousond of old-                   10 grams should be animal protein; these standards are lower than thome
year population; too-year arithicetic averages ending in 1960 sod 1970,                 of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein aso an
sod five-year average coding to 1975 for moat rect estimate,                          average for the world, proposed by PAD in the Third World Pond Survey.
Crude death rate sot thousaed - Annual deaths per thoussod of oid-yesr                  Per capita protein supply iron animal sod Pulse - Protein supply of food
population , ten-year arithisetic averages endiog in 1960 and 1970, sod                 detived from animas   so ad poises In gram  pot day.
five-year average eoding ic 1975 for most r-eet ectima te.                          Deach race f/thou) gcee 1-4 - Annual deaths per Ihouss-d in age group
Infact mor,tality rate f/thou) - Amouat deaths of infants under one year of                14yas       ocide        nti     g    ru;sgetds           midctro
age per thousond live births,1- m                                                            ealuri,tion. ide    nti     g    ru; ugse          sa      iamo
Life expectaccy at birth Cy-o) - Average numker of years of life remicing                   antiin
at birth, .usualy five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 fur               Education
developing cositrisa.                                                                Adiwsted ecrulimect ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as
Cross reproduction rate - Average comber of live daughters a simnsa   will                 perceotage of primacy schenl-ge population; Includes children aged
hear in her noonal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                  6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
specific fertility rates; ucually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    for countries with smiversal education, enrollment may esceed 1002
1970 and 1975 for developing cauntries.                                                 since som   pupils are below or shon   the official school age.
Population growth rate (2   - total - Compound aenul growth ratec of mid-Adutdeoletrai-scodyshol-Cmtdasbv;
year populat Ion for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                     secotddey educaration   - rewiresat lestcfont yer C 'ofds pproed  rmc
P.pu1atton growth rate (2   - urban - Computed lik. growth rate- of total                  intrcton; provde geuieneral,evoctioa        or teacherf tprovidcrng
poplation; differegcutdfnitrions    o  sbmaesmay affect tpr-instruction for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence
Ubinitypof.data Cmof    oalsris                                                           courses are generally excluded.
Urba  poulaion  t o  toal)- Ratio of urban to total population;                 Years of schoolinig provided (first sod second levels1) - Total years of
different definitions of urban ar.so may affsect comparability of data                  schooling; at econdary level, vocatimesal instruction may be par-
among countries.                                                                        rilyorcmltyexud.
Age  trutur  feecen) -Ckilres(0-4 yers) wokio-age (15-64 years),          Vocational enrollment (2 of secondary) - Vocational institutions
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                  include technica1, industrial or other programs which opereteL
ARe dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to                     independently or as departments of secondary institution..
rhses of ages 11 through 64.                                                         Adult literacy rate 12) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
Ecoomeic depnodeny ratio - Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over,                    percentage of total adult population aged 15 ye-arn sd over.
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Family PIacuing - acceptors (cumsulative. thou) - Cumulative nicer ofHain
acceptors of birth-contrel devices under auspices of national familypesnprrom(vag)-Arge,cbrfprosptromi
F  l plan ing prga  sinet, o incepio.d                                                    oc)-P- tge  fm-s  cupied convectional dwellings in urbso areas; dwellings escluds
Poil penofcild -buerij( age s1ried woman) -h     s Percetages of. married                 non-peeanoent structures and unoccupied parts.
wmeno      hl-ern        g   1-4yaa         h   s   it-mto         eie               OccuPied dwellinos without piped water (2) - occupied conventional
to all married womeo, in came age group.                                                dwellings In urban and rural atea. without inside or outaide piped
Employment                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~water facilities aso percentage Of all occupied dwellings.
Pasplovomot                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aces's te eectric~ity ft of all dwellings)  Conventional dwellings
Total labor forue (thou-andi - Econmically active prerons, including                        wiheetrict       in livn     uresa       ecn      fttldelosi
armd forces sod unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;                    urbth  an  ruralur areas.ntoftta                           deligsi
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                 Rraln dwlig       once      oeetiit         2     optda        bv    o
Labor force in agriculture ()-Agricultural labor force (to farming,                         rua   dwlig      Mny
forestry, hunting aod fishing) as percentages of total labor force.                     rr1delnsmy
Unemployed C2 of labor forc) - Unemployed are aw.ally defined as persons                Consumption
whomarned ablsod    iln    otk       o,ot of     a job, onaeegivenday,               Radio receivers (perthou pop) - All typos of receivers for radio brmad-
remaned  ut  f a ob,sod  eekng wrk  or a specified ninimom period             casts to general   Ublic -per thousand of Population; secludes
not esceeding on week; may not be comparable between counstries due to                 unlicensed receivers in countries sod in years when registraino
different definitions of unmployed and source of data, e.g., employ-                    raiteswsiifet               aa   o   eetyasmyntb                ompaabl
mentoffce satitics  saple  urvys,comPulsory unemployment ieutac-e.            since most countries abolished licensing.
uti-                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ps.esese  care (per thou cop) - Passenger cars comptise motor cars
Iocam  distributon- Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                    eagng less than eight persons; sexcludes ambulances, hearses sod
received by richest 52., richest 202, poepest 202 and poorect 402 of                    nilitaryvails
households.                                                                          Electricitv (wh/nr per cap) - AconaI consuption of industrial, com-
mercial, public and private electricity in kilmowtt hours per capita,
Dictribetion of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by weslthiect                   generally based on production date, without allownce for losses. in
10% and poorest 102 of land   -cere.                                                    grids but allowing for imports and esports of electricity.
He.lth sod Nutrition                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per caPita annual consumcption to kilogram
P.esith sod Nutrition     - ouai         iie     yubro        reiigestimated from domestic production plus net imports of ceusprint.
physicians qualified from a medical schunl at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1925                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH t%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.                                1965 - 70         1970 -74
GNP at Market Prices          2,159        100.0                        3.6                3.2
Gross Domestic Investment       811         37.6                        8.4                5.0
Gross National Saving            92          4.3                       13.0               14.6
Current Account Balance        -719.      -33.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           883        40.9                         1.3                3.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,402        64.9                         8.4               -1.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197]
Value Added                   Labor Forces/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %                 MEn.        %                   HU $f
Agriculture                     219      15.2               o.656       54.3                   334       28.0
Industry                        718      49.8               0.176       14.5                 4,087      342.0
Services                        506      35.0                0.298      24.6                 1,698      142.0
Unallocated                      .                          0.079        6.6                   .         _
Total/Average          1,443     100.0              T1I2- 1-00,19                                100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                          2/
General Government -                           Central Government
=     Nln.)         % of GDP                   0     (KWiEMln.)   % of GDP
1975       1975        1971 - 74
Current Receipts          )                                                         462         32           28
Current Expenditure       )                                                         532         37           24
Current Surplus           )                                                                                   4:7E  -5
Capital Expenditures      )                                                         245         17           10
External Assistance (net) )                                                          85          6             2
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                  1%5         1970        1971         1972        9L73    1974    1975
(Million K  outstanding end Deriod)
Money and Quasi Money                     113.7       355.6       318.5        341.1       410.8   440.6   493.7
Bank credit to Public Sector             -84.9       -169.7        18.3       148.0        199.3    79.8   31,5.
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/          42.5        142.9       183.1       165.4        176.8   337.3   247.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          ..          28.3        27.0         26.0        25.2    24.2
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         107.9        141.9       151.11       161.1       170.8   185.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       +4.9          4.6         6.7         6.4          6.o     8.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                .           *            *        708.7         34.7   -60.0   295.0
Bank credit to Private Sector 3/ .1                   +25.1       +28.         -9.7          6.9    90.8     2.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated0I consists
mainly of unemployed workers seekirg their first job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly           e not ayailable
from "Central Government".                     . not applicable
3/ Includes parastatal organizations.



ANNEX I
rage 4 ot 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-74)
1974     1975                                                        US $ Mln     %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,5Q6      883                       Copper                             932.0      94.5
Imports of Goods, NFS       1198        402                       Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                  41.4      4.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    308      -519                       All other commodities               12.6       1.3
Total                986.0    100.0
Factor Payments (net)         -113      -72
Net Transfers                 -127     -128
Balance on Current Account      68     -719
Direct Foreign Investment      ,.       *.                        EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing (Public)
Disbursements               137      339                                                                 US$ Mln.
Amortization                 35-     -31
Subtotal                    102      308                         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             947.5
Capital Grants                  *        *                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             12       79                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -173      119
Increase in Reserves (+)         9     -213                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO (%)
Gross Reserves (end year)    171.6    147.1                                                                  1975
Net Reserves    (end year)   114.3    -98.3                         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            8.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       Total outstanding & Disbursed
Before February 1973
USS1.00     =  Kwacha 0.714
K1.00  =  US$1.40                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING,   (June 30, 1976) (Million US$):
February 1973 to July 1976
US$1.00  =  Kwacha 0.643                                                                           IBRD         IDA
Kl.CO  =  US$l.554
July 1976                                                        Outstanding & Disbursed             209,2
US$1.00  =  Kwacha 0.804                                       Undisbursed                         177.7
K1.00  =  US$1.244                                          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        386.9
/ atio of estimated Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services in 1975,
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at June 30, 1976)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Loan
No.     Year   Borrower            Purpose                Bank  Undisbursed
10 loans fully disbursed                                  149.7
592     1969   Zambia              Education               17.4     3.4
645     1969   Zambia              Education                5.3     1.1
685     1970   Zambia              Crops Farming            5.5      .7
701-1   1974   Kariba North        Power Station           42.1    13.0
Bank Company
882     1973   Zambia              Integrated Family       11.5     8.6
Farming
900     1973   Zambia              Education               33.0    24.5
919     1973   Zambia Electricity Hydroelectric           115.0    61.4
Supply Corp.        Power
1057    1974   Zambia              Urban Development       20.0    18.0
1131    1975   Posts & Tele.       Telecommunications      32.0    32.0
Corps.
1210    1976   Developme,at Bank   Development             15.0    15.0
of Zambia           Finance Co.                 _
Total                                 446.5    177.7
of wvhich has been repaid            59.6
Total now outstanding                 386.9
Amounts sold                 38.6
of which has been repaid   30.0       8.6
Total now held by Bank                378.3
of which is undisbursed             177.7    177.7
(Undisbursed of participations)         6.8



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at June 30, 1976)
Investment                                                       US$ million
No.         Year                     Type of Business      Loan    Equity     Total
216 ZA       1972  Zambia Bata Shoe  Shoe manufacturing    0.85    0.23       1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA      1973  Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    1.20      -        1.20
Co. Ltd.           and tannery
307 ZA       1975  Century Packages  Packaging materials   0.78    0.26       1.04
Ltd.
324 ZA      1976  Development Bank   Development Finance      -    0.54       0.54
of Zambia         Co.
Total gross commitments                       2.83     1.03       3.86
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        1.41        -       1.41
Total now held by IFC                          1.42    1.03       2.45
Total undisbursed                             0.78     0.26       1.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   Bank Projects in Execution 1/
Loan No. 592-ZA - First Education Project: US$17.4 million loan of April 11,
1969; Effective Date: July 15, 1969; Closing Date: March 31,
1977.
As a result of prolonged negotiations with the architectural con-
sultants, budget reductions in 1972 due to a decline in copper prices, poor
management in the early stages of project implementation, and more recently
shortages of construction materials and difficulties with several major con-
tractors, the project is about three years behind schedule. Remaining dif-
ficulties are being overcome but it is likely that the revised March 31, 1977
Closing Date will require a further postponement of about 9 to 12 months,
Latest project cost estimates indicate an increase in cost of about 8.7 per-
cent, which the Borrower can manage. Educational objectives are being met,
Loan No. 645-ZA - Second Education Project: US$5.3 million loan of November 30,
1969; Effective Date: May 5, 1970; Closing Date: March 31,
1978.
The project is complete apart from final accounting and submis-
sion of withdrawal applications for work estimated at $100,000. A savings
of about US$1.0 million in the loan proceeds is expected in the equipment
category, resulting basically from equipment contributions from bilateral
sources,  Educational objectives are being met but at a slower pace than
originally envisaged, The Bank has agreed to a request by the Borrower
to include additional reLated work in the project in order to utilize the
expected savings. The CLosing Date of the loan has been postponed by two
years.
Loan No. 685-ZA - Commercial Crops Farming Project: US$5.5 million loan of
June 5, 1970; Effective Date: October 15, 1970; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976.
The Mukonchi and Popota training establishments continue to train
Assisted Tenant Farmers. Development of Mukonchi East continues satisfac-
torily and by 1980 it will comprise a settlement of some 20,000 people.
However, provision has not been made for a properly planned community.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them,  They should be read in this sense, and with the un-
derstanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
The Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ), the project executing agency, still has
many senior vacancies. This organizational problem is aggravated by lack
of coordination at senior levels and insufficient departmental control. As
a consequence, disbursements are in arrears.
Loan No. 701-ZA - Kariba North Project: US$82.1 million loan of July 29, 1970,
as amended on August 16, 1974; Effective Date: December 16,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first 150-MW generating set (out of four) went into commercial
operation on May 24, 1976; the other three are expected to be commissioned at
intervals of three months. The project is now in the last stage of construc-
tion and no serious problems are anticipated; in spite of the seven month
delay in completion, there is no change in the cost estimate. The Central
African Power Corporation is now fully responsible for operation of the power
station. The staffing position has improved and an adequate number of ex-
perienced staff is available at site to satisfactorily operate the generating
sets as they are commissioned.
Loan No. 882-ZA - Integrated Family Farming Project: US$11.5 million loan of
February 28, 1973; Effective Date: July 26, 1973;Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The project is not progessing well, partly due to slow farmer
recruitment. A review of the project's main objectives, costs and benefits
is required and will be carried out by the Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ) prior
to the next supervision. TBZ does not give enough support to the Project
Manager, who is short of capable scheme managers and has poor accounting,
administrative and other internal supporting services.
Loan 900-ZA -      Third Education Project: US$33.0 million loan of June 6,
1973: Effective Date: August 9, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Initial delays resulting from belated appointments of certain key staff
are being overcome. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in
health education is still delayed but problems are expected to be resolved
shortly. Difficulty is being experienced in obtaining contractors to construct
numerous small facilities located in remote areas, resulting in more than
anticipated costs and delay in implementation. Alternate courses of action
are under study.   The Borrower has decided to split the University into three
separate campuses, which may require modification of the Loan Agreement. More
precise information is expected from the Government on the University component
which represents about 10 percent of the total project. The project is expected
to be completed by the original loan Closing Date.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 919-ZA -     Kafue 'qydroelectric Project (Stage II): US$115.0 million
loan of July 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 15 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Constrution of the main dam is proceeding on schedule; 60 percent of
the rockfill has been placed and the storage target for this year has been
accomplished. Current expectations are that the project will be completed
on schedule and within the appraisal cost estimate.   Over the past two
years, the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation has made considerable progress
in improving its financial management but its financial performance has not
been satisfactory. However, performance is expected to improve considerably
from FY77 with the implemaentation of a new financial framework for the sector
that has been substantia:Lly agreed to by all parties, including the Central
African Power Corporation. The one remaining issue to be settled is the
tariff for short-term Zambian electricity exports.
Loan No. 1057-ZA - Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project:
US$20..O million loan of December 6, 1974; Effective Date:
April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project executi:on is now proceeding satisfactorily after initial
delays caused by postponement of loan signing and the Implementation Unit's
unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures.   Upgrading of the first
major squatter settlement: should be completed in late 1976. Some site and
services plots should be ready for allocation later in 1976 with all of them
being serviced by mid-1977. All squatter areas should be upgraded by mid-
1978.
Loan No. 1131-ZA - Telecommunications Project: US$32 million loan of June 24,
1975; Effective Date: December 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project procurement and execution is approximately one year behind
schedule but no major problems exist. An increase in telecommunication
tariffs has been approved by Government, delays in billing have been eliminated
and arrears substantially reduced. Implementation of the financial/management
consultants report is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation oE the initial
capitalization of the newly formed Posts and Telecommunications Corporation,
however, still remains to be completed.
Loan No. 1210-ZA - Development Bank of Zambia: US$15.0 million loan of
February 18, 1976; Effective Date: April 23, 1976;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
The loan has recently been declared effective.   No projects have yet
been submitted for approval.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
D.   IFC Projects in Execution 1/
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. - 216 ZA and 250 ZA - Shoes and Tannery
Both the shoe project and the tannery project financed by IFC were
completed in 1974. The Company continues to perform well. Net profits after
taxes for 1975 were slightly higher than projected in the 1973 Board Report.
Century Packages Ltd. - 307 ZA - Packaging Materials
The Company has now placed orders for the equipment and called for
tenders for the civil works.
Development Bank of Zambia - 324 ZA - Development Finance Company
The IFC equity investment, approved in February 1976, was disbursed
in June 1976.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Board of Directors on the status
of the existing projects and to report upon problems including those
relating to undisbursed investments, which are being encountered and
of the actions being taken to remedy such problems. These notes are
not comprehensive in terms of factual content nor are they intended to
present a balanced evaluation of each investment.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA - PROGRAM LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Zambia
Amount:                     US$30 million, equivalent
Terms:                      8.90 percent interest, repayable in 17 years,
including 3 1/2 years of grace.
Program Description:        The proposed loan would provide foreign exchange
for imports of essential capital and Lntermediate
goods, raw materials and spare parts for agriculture,
mining and manufacturing in the public and private
sectors.
Procurement
Arrangements:             Imports by the private sector would be subject
to normal commercial practices. Public sector
organizations follow procurement procedures of
the Central Tender Board which requires advertise-
ment with at least 8 weeks' notice in the Govern-
ment Gazette and in trade papers. Almost all
countries containing prospective suppliers are
represented by missions in Zambia. Bids are
evaluated according to prescribed procedures and
contracts awarded to the lowest bidder.
Disbursement
Arrangements:             The Borrower would be reimbursed for the foreign
exchange expenditure on eligible imports on the
basis of evidence to be submitted to the Bank
periodically. No disbursements would be made
for food, fuel, fertilizers and consumer goods
or for imports for which other sources of foreign
financing have been secured. Individual import
expenditures of less than $5,000 would not be
eligible for reimbursement.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Counterpart Funds:          The Ministry of Finance would establish a special
project account to which the kwacha equivalent
of the imports financed would be credited. The
Government would transfer funds from the project
account periodically to cover expenditures under
specified categories of the 1976 Capital Budget
and under specified categories of the Supplemen-
tary 1976 Recurrent and Capital Budget for the
Ministry of Rural Development and provincial
cabinet offices. The Government will report to the
Bank periodically on the use made of project
account funds. The use of counterpart funds would
be limited to those expenditures which are not
otherwise financed by external sources.



APP'ENDIX
Table 1: (GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT PROGRAM, /1 1972-76
(K million)
1972     1973      1974      1975        1976
(Est.)     (Est.)
Social Services                     37.5      38.1     42.6      67.5        40.0
Education                          19.1     22.1     21.7      28.3        19.8
Health                             6.7       3.8      4.2       9.6         7.5
Local Authorities /2               11.6     12.1     16.6      28.4        12.1
Others                             0.1       0.1      0.1        1.2        0.6
Economic Services                  118.2     104.7    120.4     194.0       106.5
Rural Development                 42.9      26.0     18.1      34.1        16.4
(Ministry of Rural
Development)                    (8.6)     (9.4)   (10.2)    (14.7)      (11.1)
Land, Mining, Natural
Resources                        4.0      3.6       4.7       9..0        5.7
Transport, Communications,
Power, Works                    69.7      72.5     80.9     142.9        83.7
Trade and Industry                  1.6      2.6     16.7       8.0         0.7
General Services                     4.7      10.4      8.2      23.0        10.1
Total                         160.4     153.2    171.2     284.5 /3    156.6
/1   Includes government direct capital expenditures and gross lending to
local authorities and parastatals.
/2   Includes investment in low-cost housing, sites and services, and
municipal water and sewerage schemes.
/3   Preliminary actuals are K 248 million, the sectoral breakdown of which
is not available.
Source: Ministry of Finance (Sector allocations are Mission estimates).



APPENDIX
Table 2:   GOVERNMENT FINANCE, 1974-76
(K million)
1974          1975                 1976
(Act.)      (Pre. Act.)      (Budget)     (Est.)
Revenue                             651           462             438        467
Mineral                          (339)          (59)             (5)         (5)
Others                           (312)         (403)           (433)      (462)
Recurrent Expenditure              -404          -532            -472       -472
of which subsidies               (-47)         (-83)           (-51)      (-51)
Direct Development
Expenditure                      -113         -144            -111        -114
Net Lending                         -50          -101             -43        -43
Overall Balance                      84          -315            -188       -162
Domestic Borrowing
from the Public                     5            18              14         14
Domestic Borrowing
from Banking System              -127           212             111         75
Foreign Borrowing                    37            85              63          73
Source:  Ministry of Finance, Bank of Zambia and Mission estimates.



APPENDIX
Table 3: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1974-76
(US$ million)
1976
1974       1975        (Mission
(Act.)     (Prel.)       Proj.)
Exports, Goods & NFS                          1,506        883           950
of which:  Copper                          (1,303)      (726)         (780)
Imports, Goods & NFS                         -1,198     -1,402         1,020
Net Factor Services and Transfers              -240       -200          -240
Current Account Balance                         +68       -719          -310
Debt Repayment                                  -35        -31          -126 /1
Other Net Capital Flows /2                     -173        119 /3         -
Change in Reserves (+ = decrease)                -9        213            55
of which:  IMF, net                                      (22)          (55)
Financial Assistance, gross                     149        418           381
Disbursements from Loans
Committed by end 1975 /4                      137        339           269
Suppliers Credits                              (2)       (48)          (41)
Financial Institutions                         -        (153)          (31)
Official Assistance                          (135)      (138)         (197)
of which:   IBRD                            [50]       [501          [57]
Others:                                          12         79            18
UK Grant                                       -          -            (10)
EEC Grant                                      -          -             (8)
Remaining Gap                                    -          -             94
/1   Including repayments of arrears estimated at $76 million.
/2   Including errors and omissions and other unrecorded flows.
/3   Including an accumulation of payments in arrears estimated at $156
million.
/4   According to Debt Reporting System.
Source: Bank of Zambia, mission estimates.



APPENDIX
Table 4: PROSPECTS FOR THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)
1975       1976       1980      1985
(Pre.)
Exports, Goods and NFS /1                   883        950     2,235      3,900
Imports, Goods and NFS                  -1,402      -1,020    -1,965    -3,360
Net Factor Services
and Transfers                           -200        -240      -305       -390
Current Account Balance                   -719        -310        35       +150
Net Capital Inflow                          506        255       120        -14
Change in Reserves
(+ = decrease)                           213          55       -85      -136
Memo Items
Debt Service Ratio                          8         18 /2      15        12
Share of iBRD in:
Debt Outstanding & Disbursed             19         20        25         32
Debt Service                             22         10        14         18
/1   Export projections based on IBRD copper price forecast.
/2   Includes payment of the $76 million in arrears outstanding at the end
of 1975.
Source: Mission estimates.



F-OURTH   EDUCATION    PROJECT      ,, 34                          .   9   >    i;         ;          . . i
Provin6nul boundaries-                 U            '"'t''C
| n_larnoi anal boundaries
;I I                ki
50  _____   '              A     A'                        gasam,      Y    K021~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
s        ~~i flu                                                                .Xt 'S' 'sr *,,;;  r  HJJQ
CH NSAL~
""""r 't -       F          l    . I ---CHAMA)
| Xi e UtU , X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'LI                                                   M< 'pAkt o
5               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pk
&   i'^'             p     C            -               _                  I S                  22
NRDRADL MAa
25                                             -N A1
N A M~~~~~~~~~~~~M~ W A
ILA     NgAo-- 
S  ,     '          ~~~-S    ano  (.    KSEt          t 
Haarb  '.    c   SEm
K A            7M (



