Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB3795 
Project Name 
Togo: Economic Recovery and  Governance Grant
–ERGG 
Region 
AFR 
Sector 
Public administration (30%), energy and mining (30%), 
agriculture (20%), finance (20%) 
Project ID 
P110618 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TOGO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[] C   [ ] FI   [X] not applicable  
Date PID Prepared 
March 18, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 31, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 29, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Togo, a small-size country with a population of 6.3 million in 2006, is a member of the West 
African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU).  
Its population is growing at 2.7 percent 
annually and likely to double in 25 years. There are about 37 ethnic groups in the country, most 
of which are closely related to groups in neighboring Ghana and Benin.  Income per capita 
(US$350 in 2006 as per the Bank’s Atlas methodology) is low compared to Sub-Saharan Africa 
(US$842) and Low Income Countries (US$650) averages.  The Lomé port is an important 
transport hub for the landlocked neighboring countries and has benefited from diversion of 
traffic from the port of Abidjan as result of unrest in Côte d’Ivoire in recent years.  In the past, 
the country played a central role in regional trade and finance.  The economy, however, 
deteriorated since the 1990s and the banking sector is currently in a precarious condition due to 
the accumulation of large arrears from public sector entities.  Togo is the third largest producer 
of phosphates in Sub-Saharan Africa; it also produces cash crops, mainly cotton and groundnuts, 
and has a considerable agricultural potential due to favorable climate conditions in a large part of 
the country.  Despite its natural resources, however, the prolonged political unrest and the 
withdrawal of foreign assistance have taken a heavy toll on the economy and social outcomes.  
As a result, Togo now ranks 152nd out of 177 countries in terms of human development, 
according to the UNDP’s 2007 Human Development Report. 
Following an extended period of political instability, Togo has established an environment 
currently conducive to reforms.  
The death of General Gnassingbe Eyadéma in February 2005, 
which ended his 40 year rule, was followed by the election of his son Faure Gnassingbe as the 
new President of Togo in a disputed ballot in April 2005.  The election triggered several weeks 
of intense civil unrest, prompting a harsh military clampdown and an exodus of over 30,000 
refugees to neighboring Ghana and Benin.  Many donors, particularly the European Union (EU), 
continued to stress the need for democratic reforms in order to resume assistance that had been 
Page  2
2
cut off in early to mid-1990s.  Lengthy negotiations among the main political parties, also 
mediated by Blaise Compaoré, President of Burkina Faso, culminated in a comprehensive 
political agreement (
Accord Politique Global
)
in August 2006.  The agreement provided for a 
new, transitional government of national unity, whose mandate included the organization of 
legislative elections by October 2007. 
The legislative elections, held on October 14, 2007, resulted in a clear majority of the 
incumbent party but also participation of several political parties in the National Assembly
.
The constitutional court confirmed the elections as fair, and the majority of EU and other foreign 
observers also endorsed their results, despite some irregularities.  The main opposition party, the 
Union des Forces de Changement
 (UFC), has resumed its participation in the National Assembly 
for the first time in more than 15 years.  On November 29, 2007, the EU restored full 
cooperation with Togo, after a 14 year suspension, citing progress in improving human rights 
and restoring democracy through the holding of free and transparent elections.  In response to 
these developments, the EU quickly unblocked 40 million Euros in aid, thereby resuming its 
engagement in Togo.  
The proposed grant would support the full normalization of relations between Togo and 
the World Bank.  
The Economic Recovery and Governance Grant (ERGG) is also the first 
Development Policy Operation (DPO) aimed at supporting the development strategy of the 
Government of Togo in the context of a multi-donor re-engagement process.  The proceeds of 
the grant will be used for:  (i) direct reimbursement of a bridge loan extended to clear Togo’s 
arrears to the International Development Association, and (ii) budgeted fiscal needs in the period 
immediately after arrears clearance. 
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
The objectives of the proposed Economic Recovery and Governance Grant
 (ERGG) are to: 
(i) facilitate the clearance of Togo’s arrears to IDA, which is required to restore normal relations 
between the country and the World Bank; and (ii) support Togo in its economic and social 
recovery. Given the complex and still fragile socio-political environment and governance and 
transparency issues facing the government, the second objective is pursued by supporting 
government-owned reforms to improve governance, transparency and efficiency in public 
expenditure management as well as advance structural reforms aimed at strengthening 
governance and transparency in the key sectors of the economy (phosphates, energy, cotton and 
financial sectors).  The program would lead over time to strengthened fiscal sustainability, 
enhanced transparency of State institutions and processes, improved economic governance and 
increased economic growth. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The Grant is a one-tranche operation which would assist Togo in supporting the 
government’s economic recovery program.
 
The grant is an integral part of the Bank’s Interim 
Strategy Note for Togo for the period FY08-10.  In 
addition to measures to restore fiscal 
and debt sustainability, the reform program focuses on (i) improving public finance 
management, and (ii) strengthening governance and transparency in the 
management of key public enterprises.  Under the first policy area, the government 
Page  3
3
intends to advance reforms to improve budget formulation, execution and controls, 
and public procurement.  The second policy area includes reforms in the key 
phosphate, cotton, energy, and financial sectors. 
At the request of the authorities, the 
grant would be used for direct reimbursement of a bridge loan of about US$[150] million 
extended to clear Togo’s arrears to the International Development Association, and budgeted 
fiscal needs (US$17.6 million) in the period immediately after arrears clearance.  
 
Normalization of relations with the World Bank
 would (i) set the stage for provision of 
regular IDA resources; (ii) facilitate Togo’s efforts to reestablish relations with the rest of the 
international community, including both other creditors and donor agencies; and (iii) pave the 
way for Togo toward debt relief under the HIPC and MDRI Initiatives.  It is expected that this 
will lead to an increase in the level of support for social and economic development activities in 
Togo, which in turn is expected to help improve a fragile political situation.  Furthermore, it is 
also expected that normalization and access to new resources and debt relief would increase 
confidence in the economy and help stimulate private sector investment in Togo. 
The ERGG is also expected to have a significant positive impact on poverty reduction.
 
Specifically, efforts to improve the capacity of the State to implement its budget priorities and 
strengthen public financial management would enhance efficiency, transparency and 
accountability in public resource use, and increase the country’s absorption capacity for external 
resources. Strengthening governance, transparency and efficiency in the phosphates sector would 
help improve government revenues and contribute to a more transparent utilization of resources 
in this sector.  Strengthening governance and transparency in the cotton sector would improve 
the livelihood of an important segment of the population (which relies on this cash crop as a 
dominant source of earnings).  Improving governance and efficiency in the energy sector would 
help stimulate economic activity and reduce government expenditures (the savings could be used 
for increased expenditures for basic social services). Reforming the financial sector would help 
strengthen the financial situation of institutions affected by the crisis and improve the soundness 
of the banking sector.  The grant would also help fund the provision of basic public services with 
a
beneficial impact on the poor in the period immediately after arrears clearance. 
 
4. Environmental aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant direct effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources. 
 
5. Risks 
 
The proposed operation is of 
high risk.
 The four principal risks are: (i) 
political risk
 stemming 
mainly from potential resurgence of influence of non-reformers or of political tensions between 
the ruling party and the main opposition party;
 
(ii) 
macroeconomic risk
 stemming from an 
inability of the government to maintain a responsible medium-term macroeconomic framework 
or from the vulnerability of the Togolese economy to climatic or commodity price shocks; these 
could result in, among others, a risk of falling back into arrears or exacerbating the already 
precarious
 
financial situation of several banks, with possible adverse spillover to the region; (iii) 
fiduciary risk
 arising from failure to suppress corruption or failure of the government to make 
effective and efficient use of the fiscal space made available by budget support; and (iv) 
Page  4
4
implementation capacity risk
,
arising from an insufficient number of professional cadre in 
government and weak institutional capacity and coordination. 
 
While mitigation of the political risk falls outside of the direct scope of this operation, it is 
expected that frequent broad-based consultations with stakeholders to strengthen the case for 
reforms and Government’s commitment to them, would help mitigate this risk.  To reduce 
resistance to reform, steps are being taken to set the stage for more transparent and accountable 
practices in the phosphates, energy, cotton and financial sectors.  Also, close coordination with 
the IMF, AfDB and bilateral donors and intensified sector dialogue will help ensure that top 
priority is given by the Government to the reform of these sectors.  The macroeconomic risk is 
mitigated by ongoing close economic monitoring and coordination by the Bank, the IMF and 
other donors, and an acceleration of the HIPC process provided that overall performance is fully 
satisfactory on the part of the government.  The fiduciary risk is mitigated through the focus of 
the operation on measures to improve public financial management, the ongoing Public 
Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) and further technical 
assistance and capacity building provided by the Bank and other donors.  The implementation 
capacity risk is mitigated through the provision of extensive technical assistance by the Bank and 
other donors in the areas covered by the proposed operation, including through the ongoing 
PEMFAR, an ongoing LICUS Trust Fund grant and a planned Governance Reform Technical 
Assistance project. 
 
6. Tentative financing 
 
Source:  
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
US$[167.6]m
Total US$[167.6]m
7. Contact point 
 
Contact: Christina Wood 
Title: Senior Economist, AFTP4 
Tel: (202) 473-5829 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: Cwood@worldbank.org 
 
