Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H 3890-TG
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Recovery and Governance Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TOGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 29, 2008 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H 3890-TG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 29, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF TOGO 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: 
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework. 
WHEREAS, the Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one hundred and 
seven million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 107,100,000) (the 
“Grant”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are December 15 and June 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is when a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
Economy and Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Immeuble CASEF 
B.P. 387 Lomé - Togo 
Facsimile: 
(228) 221 09 05 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TOGO 
 
By /s/ 
Lorempo Tchabré Landjergue
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Antonella Bassani 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions already taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
Public Finance Management
·
The Recipient has submitted to the National Assembly, the version of the draft 2008 
budget law which takes into
 account the Association’s comments. 
 
·
The Recipient has adopted (by ministerial decision) and implemented an instrument 
(dashboard) for the monthly monitoring of budget execution. 
 
·
The Recipient has (i) introduced a budget line starting with the 2008 budget, to cover 
force majeure expenditures (natural catastrophes, etc.), and (ii) forbidden (by ministerial 
decision) the use of Payment Orders (PO) not supported by Telegram Letters (TL), 
except for the servicing of external debt. 
 
Public Procurement
·
The Recipient has adopted (through the Council of Ministers) an action plan for public 
procurement reforms on the basis of the 2003 CPAR (Country Procurement Assessment 
Report). 
 
Cotton Sector
·
The Recipient has established a Billing Verification Task Force (
Mission de Vérification
)
to (i) review the cases of potential over billing identified in the audit of SOTOCO 
(regarding inputs, supplies and shortfalls in fiber revenues), and (ii) clarify which ones 
require follow up. 
 
·
The Recipient has taken a decision (by a resolution of the SOTOCO Surveillance 
Council) on the option for restructuring/liquidation of SOTOCO following the workshop 
and based on the finalized strategic audit.  
 
Financial Sector
·
The Recipient has put in place a new administration for BTCI to manage the 
implementation of the restructuring measures, as recommended by the Banking 
Commission of UMOA. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Energy Sector
·
The Recipient has implemented the definitive management structure of CEET, as 
evidenced by: (i) the establishment of a board of directors (according to the existing law - 
Law 90-26 of December 4, 1990); (ii) the adoption of the statutes of CEET in harmony 
with the OHADA law; and (iii) the appointment of a General Manager.  
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche: 
Part (A)  
Part (B)  
 
96,400,000 
10,700,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
107,100,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a dedicated deposit account for 
the withdrawal of the funds of Part B of the Grant 
(“Deposit Account”), designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association: 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into the 
Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Accounts and 
their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  9
-
8
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Banking Commission of UMOA” means the regional banking commission in charge of 
supervision of credit institutions established and operating pursuant to its governing 
treaty, dated April 24, 1990. 
 
2. “BTCI” 
means 
Banque Togolaise pour le Commerce et l’Industrie
,
the Recipient’s 
principal financial institution, responsible for retail banking, established under 
 
No. T0024K, pursuant to the 
Arrêté
 26/MEF/DE, dated February 6, 1996. 
 
3. 
“CEET” means 
Compagnie Energie Electricité du Togo
,
the state-owned company of the 
Recipient, established and operating under Law 90-26 of December 4, 1990, responsible 
for production and distribution of electricity to end users. 
4. 
“Deposit Account” means the Deposit Account referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
Page  10
-
9
-
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated April 28, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association (Letter of Development 
Policy) declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
Page  11
-
10
-
8. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
9. “SOTOCO” 
means 
Société Togolaise de Coton
,
the state-owned cotton company of the 
Recipient, established and operating under Law 90-26 of December 4, 1990, responsible 
at the national level, for marketing and ginning of cotton and selling of cotton fiber. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
Page  12
-
11
-
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.
”
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program.”
 
