                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001301




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H3890)

                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 100.9 MILLION
                      (US$164.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF TOGO

                                   FOR AN

            ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND GOVERNANCE GRANT


                              December 16, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 2009)

                          Currency Unit = FCFA
                         US$1.00 = FCFA 434

                             FISCAL YEAR


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB     African Development Bank
APG      Accord Politique Global (Global Political Agreement)
BCEAO    Banque Centrale des États de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West
         African States)
BTCI     Banque Togolaise pour le Commerce et l'Industrie (Togolese Bank of
         Commerce and Industry)
BIA      Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique (African International Bank)
CC       Cour des Comptes (Independent General Audit Office)
CCIT     Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Togo (Chambre of Commerce and
         Industry of Togo)
CEB      Communauté Electrique du Benin (Benin Power Company)
CEET     Compagnie d'Energie Electrique du Togo (Togo Electric Energy Company)
CFAF     CFA Francs
CNCR     Caisse Nationale de Crédit Rural (National Rural Credit Bank)
CNCS     Comité National de Coordination et de Suivi de la Réforme de Passation des
         Marchés Publics (National Committee for Coordination and Monitoring of
         the Procurement Reform)
CNM      Commission Nationale des Marchés (National Commission of Procurement)
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
DPL      Development Policy Lending
EITI     Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EPZ      Export Processing Zone
ERGG     Economic Recovery and Governance Grant
EU       European Union
FSA      Financial Sector Assessment
GDP      Growth Domestic Product
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICRR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
LICUS    Low Income Countries Under Stress
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF      Ministry of Finance and Economy
NSCT     Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo (New Cotton Enterprise of Togo)
OHADA    Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique
         (Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa)
OP       Ordres de Paiement (Payment Orders)
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SIGFIP   Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques (Integrated System of
         Public Finance Management)
SNPT     Société Nationale des Phosphates du Togo (Togo National Company of
         Phosphates)
SOTOCO   Société Togolaise de Coton (Togolese Cotton Enterprise)
TCAA     Treasury Central Accounting Agency
TL       Telegram Letters
TOFE     Tableau des Opérations Financières de l'Etat (State Finance Operations
         Table)
UTB      Union Togolaise de Banque (Union of Bank Togolese)
WAEMU    West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAPP     West African Power Pool




                    Vice President:    Obiageli K. Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
                  Country Director:    Madani M. Tall (AFCF2)
                    Sector Director:   Sudhir Shetty (AFTPM)
                   Sector Manager:     Antonella Bassani (AFTP4)
                 Task Team Leader:     Manuela Francisco (AFTP4)
                                                           TOGO

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT ON
       THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND GOVERNANCE GRANT

                                                      CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................................... 1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................ 6
3.   Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................... 16
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.................................................................. 23
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................. 25
6.   Lessons Learned .............................................................................................................. 27


Annexes:

Annex 1.     Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................ 29
Annex 2.     Beneficiary Survey Results (if any).......................................................................... 31
Annex 3.     Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ................................................. 32
Annex 4.     Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................ 33
Annex 5.     Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................... 34
Annex 6.     List of Supporting Documents.................................................................................. 35
Annex 7.     Country Map............................................................................................................. 36
A. Basic Information
                                                                          TG-Economic
Country:                Togo                    Program Name:             Recovery and
                                                                          Governance Grant
Program ID:             P110618                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H3890
ICR Date:               12/17/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TOGO
Original Total
                        XDR 107.1M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 100.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 100.9M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/13/2008     Effectiveness:                              05/30/2008
Appraisal:            04/14/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/29/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry                                                         25                  25
Banking                                                               12                  12
Central government administration                                     50                  50
Power                                                                 13                  13


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             29                  29
Infrastructure services for private sector development                14                  14
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      29                  29
procurement
Rural policies and institutions                                       14                  14
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       James P. Bond
Sector Manager:            Antonella Bassani                    Antonella Bassani
                           Maria Manuela Do Rosario
Program Team Leader:                                            Christina A. Wood
                           Francisco
                           Maria Manuela Do Rosario
ICR Team Leader:
                           Francisco
                           Maria Manuela Do Rosario
ICR Primary Author:
                           Francisco




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Economic Recovery and Governance Grant (ERGG), a one-tranche
development policy operation were to: (i) facilitate the clearance of Togo#s arrears to
IDA, which is required to restore normal relations between the country and the World
Bank; and (ii) support Togo in its economic and social recovery.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                              documents)           Values       Target Years
                   Deviation of executed expenditures from the budget as a share of the budgeted
Indicator 1 :
                   expenditures, for each semester and each year.
Value
(quantitative or   6.9 percent             <5.0 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007              12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   The net worth of the two commercial banks (BTCI, UTB) have increased to at
Indicator 2 :
                   least 8 percent of total assets.
Value
(quantitative or   Negative net worth      >= 8 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2008
Comments           The net worth of UTB reached 13.83 percent of the total assets whereas BTCI
(incl. %           reached 6.11 percent. On average, the net worth of the two commercial banks
achievement)       is 9.97 percent of total assets.
Indicator 3 :      No new arrears incurred to key multilateral creditors (namely WB and AfDB).
Value                                                          No new
                   Large arrears to most No new arrears
(quantitative or                                               arrears
                   multilateral creditors. accumulated.
Qualitative)                                                   accumulated.
Date achieved      12/31/2007                06/30/2009        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   A procurement reform program is being implemented and a new procurement
Indicator 4 :
                   code has been adopted.
Value              Procurement reform not New procurement
(quantitative or   yet adopted.           code adopted.


                                               iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007                03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Seed cotton production.
Value
(quantitative or   48,000                    60,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007                12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Share of losses in CEET#s electricity grid.
                                          19 percent
Value
                                          (a 1 percentage
(quantitative or   20 percent
                                          point decline per
Qualitative)
                                          year)
Date achieved      12/31/2007             12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Share of losses in CEET#s electricity grid.
                                          19 percent
Value
                                          (a 1 percentage
(quantitative or   20 percent
                                          point decline per
Qualitative)
                                          year)
Date achieved      12/31/2007             12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP            Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      06/30/2008     Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 164.37



                                                  iv
  2    04/13/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          164.37
  3    06/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   164.37


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v
1.    Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

Background. Following an extended period of political instability, the environment in late 2007
and early 2008 had finally become conducive to reforms. The death of General Gnassingbe
Eyadema in February 2005 was followed by the election of his son Faure Gnassingbe as the new
President of Togo in a disputed ballot in April 2005. Many donors, particularly the European
Union (EU), continued to stress the need for democratic reforms in order to resume assistance
that had been cut off in the early to mid-1990s. Lengthy negotiations among the main political
parties culminated in a comprehensive political agreement (Accord Politique Global) in August
2006, followed by legislative elections held in October 2007. In November, the EU restored full
cooperation with Togo, after a 14 year suspension.

The prolonged period of political instability, economic and financial mismanagement and the
related withdrawal of donor support before 2008 had had a negative impact on the country's
economic performance and dramatically reduced living standards for large segments of the
population. Togo's growth performance has been among the weakest in sub-Saharan Africa,
with per capita income declining by an average of 1 percent annually since the early 1980s.
Indeed, the low economic growth fell short of the rapid population growth (2.6 percent). Poverty
deepened in rural areas and pockets of extreme poverty existed in urban areas, including the
capital.

Weak public finance management and excessive public debt had led to large arrears,
undermining the confidence of suppliers and creditors. To support the Government's financing
needs, arrears were accumulated and the large state-owned companies were tapped to provide
advances to the Treasury. The situation was aggravated by pervasive mismanagement, leading
to large losses by these state-owned enterprises, in particular in the cotton and phosphate sectors.
The phosphate sector's share of total exports dropped by half in a few years, from 13 percent in
2001 to 6 percent in 2006. The cotton sector's output had fallen to a quarter of its 2001-2005
average, and its share of exports fell from 17 percent in 2001 to 6 percent in 2006. As a result of
the dire financial situation of the main parastatals, several banks were burdened by an excessive
share of non-performing loans, and some were highly undercapitalized.

The business environment was ­ and still is - constrained by two decades of underinvestment in
infrastructure (notably transport and energy) and poor governance. Institutional capacity
declined during the long socio-political crisis and donor disengagement. There was a significant
backlog in maintaining health facilities and schools, while hiring and wage freezes had led to
serious bottlenecks in staffing them. Furthermore, Togo's economy had been hit by a number of
internal and external shocks in 2007 and 2008: a severe national energy crisis, flooding in certain
parts of the country, the negative terms of trade impact of high food and energy world prices, and
the euro appreciation (to which the CFAF is pegged) vis-à-vis the US dollar.




                                                 1
Rationale for Bank assistance. The political developments during 2005-2007, coupled with a
new Government commitment to pursue and deepen economic reforms, presented a window of
opportunity for resumption of the Bank's program in Togo. After significant efforts to stabilize
the economy and initiate economic reforms, in June 2007 Togo completed the first review of an
IMF Staff Monitored Program covering the period October 2006 - June 2007. After the
resumption of EU cooperation in November 2007 (following satisfactory completion of the last
EU re-engagement criterium, i.e. transparent legislative elections), several donors were actively
seeking to re-engage with the country. In this context, the Economic Recovery and Governance
Grant (ERGG) formed part of a coordinated and interlinked strategy with the IMF, the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and other donor agencies to clear Togo's arrears, resume normal
relations with the country and support the governments' program of economic reforms. The
Bank initiated the ERGG dialogue in November 2007 in parallel with initiation of the IMF
dialogue to prepare a PRGF. The IMF reached understandings, ad referendum, in December
2007 on a PRGF-supported program whose implementation commenced on January 1, 2008 for
Board consideration by end March 2008. Clearance of Togo's arrears to IDA and the launching
of governance and transparency reforms were critically needed to facilitate the country's efforts
to reestablish relations with the rest of the international community, set the stage for provision of
regular IDA resources, pave the way for Togo toward debt relief under the HIPC Initiative and
MDRI, and strengthen the foundation for economic and social recovery.

1.2    Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The key objectives of the Economic Recovery and Governance Grant were to (i) facilitate the
clearance of Togo's arrears to IDA, which was required to restore normal relations between the
country and the World Bank; and (ii) support Togo in its economic and social recovery. The
second objective aimed at supporting government-owned reforms to improve governance,
transparency and efficiency in public expenditure management as well as advance structural
reforms aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in the key sectors of the economy
(phosphate, energy, cotton and financial sectors). In public financial management, the program
focused on supporting the Government's efforts to restore the normal budget cycle and
strengthen budget preparation, execution, controls and public procurement. In addition, it would
contribute to creating the conditions for a return to sustained private sector confidence,
investment and growth recovery through improved governance and transparency in the above
identified sectors.

Since Togo was in debt distress, the ERGG's single tranche was provided on grant terms, and the
proceeds were disbursed to: (i) provide direct reimbursement of a bridge loan of US$ 146.9
million extended to clear Togo's arrears to IDA; and (ii) support budgeted fiscal needs in the
period immediately after Togo cleared its arrears including future debt service obligations (US$
17.4 million). The grant was an integral part of the Bank's Interim Strategy Note for Togo for the
period FY08-FY10. This operation was financed with an exceptional allocation of IDA
resources, and in accordance with IDA's systematic approach to the clearance of arrears to IDA.

The ERGG was expected to pave the way for regularizing financial relations with the country's
other creditors, and to contribute to strengthening fiscal sustainability, improving economic
governance and enhancing transparency of State institutions and processes. The resources made



                                                 2
available by the grant were to assist the Government in implementing activities that would
otherwise be beyond its fiscal capabilities, including financing the provision of basic public
services.

Anticipated results of the program are detailed in table 4 below.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

PDOs and result indicators remained unchanged during program implementation.

1.4    Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The ERGG supported reforms in the following key areas:

1.4.1 Public finance management:

The design of the ERGG's public financial management component drew heavily on the Public
Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) completed in June
2006 and a then ongoing PEMFAR which had identified significant weaknesses at all levels of
the budget chain. The program was expected to support the Government's public expenditure
management reforms by restoring the normal budget cycle and improving budget preparation,
execution, monitoring and control, and public procurement. These reforms were important to
improve transparency and efficiency of public expenditures and contribute to fiscal
sustainability. In addition, by restoring the Government's ability to make timely payments, the
program was also expected to restore private sector confidence ­ crucial for investment ­ and
thus lay to groundwork for a sustained recovery.

1.4.2 Reform in key economic sector:

The design of the ERGG was informed by analytical work in several key sectors and focused on
addressing the weaknesses identified through the following sector policy reforms:

(i)   Phosphate sector: increase operating capacity and sector performance by improving
      transparency and governance (after termination of the previous joint venture IFG-Togo and
      creation of Société Nouvelle des Phosphates du Togo ­ SNPT).

(ii) Cotton sector: take a decision on whether to liquidate or restructure the ginning and
     marketing company SOTOCO, after years of financial mismanagement, and improve its
     accounting and financial practices.

(iii) Financial sector: start restructuring ailing state-owned banks, notably by putting in place a
      new BTCI administration.




                                                 3
(iv) Energy sector: put in place a permanent management structure for the electricity company
     CEET, in order to implement an action plan expected to address the critical challenges of
     the energy sector in Togo.

These reforms were crucial for Togo's economic recovery for three reasons: (i) the
mismanagement or weak performance of the parastatals which dominate the four sectors and
their resulting losses had been a severe drain on the budget for years instead of contributing to
tax revenue, and resulted in a weakening of the health of the financial sector; this situation had
prevented sector investment and a much needed increase of public resources for infrastructure
and social sectors; (ii) the four key sectors are essential for a sustainable recovery of the
economy, either by their own growth potential (phosphates and cotton), or by their impact on the
business environment (cost and reliability of electricity, access to credit and financial services);
and (iii) the cotton sector has an important impact on poverty and ensures the livelihood of about
300,000 farmers in the center and the north of the country.

Phosphate sector: The weak performance of the phosphate sector resulted in a dramatic
reduction of operating capacity and contribution to export earnings. Togo is the fourth largest
producer of phosphates in Africa (after Morocco, Tunisia and South Africa), with reserves
estimated at 60 million metric tons. From a peak of 3.4 million tons in 1989, production dropped
to 750, 000 tons in 2007. More recently, the phosphate sector's contribution to export earnings
fell from 13 percent in 2001 to 6 percent in 2006 and 8 percent in 2007; it reached 13 percent
again in 2008 due to exceptionally high world prices. The decline in output reflects the failure to
properly maintain and modernize equipment as well as major governance problems. With
competent management and investment in equipment, the potential for phosphate production is
still quite high and would be a major factor in the country's short and medium term economic
recovery. This potential contribution to growth justified the emphasis on reform of the phosphate
sector in the Government program, starting with the requirement for a strategic and financial
audit (financed by a LICUS Fund) and increased transparency, including through publication of
financial data and payment of taxes and dividends to the Treasury. It should be noted that while
ERGG did not include any prior action for the phosphate sector, it anticipated a further action in
this sector to be considered for additional IDA development policy assistance (see Table 2).

Cotton sector: The cotton sector's share in the economy had fallen drastically in recent years
due to weak sector governance and performance. Cotton is the country's main cash crop, and an
important source of income for about 300,000 farmers. Although depressed international prices
and the appreciation of the euro (to which the CFAF is pegged) to the US dollar played a role,
the weak management and governance of SOTOCO (Société Togolaise de Coton), the state-
owned cotton ginning and marketing company, were the main reasons for the significant decline
in production and exports. As with the phosphate sector, the cotton parastatal's (100 percent
owned by Government) financial losses were a drain on the public treasury, and its non-
performing loans with local banks restrained the banking sector's overall capacity to finance the
economy. The decision to privatize SOTOCO was taken in 2008 and the privatization process is
ongoing, with a two year transition period until 2010 during which the company will be
financially and technically restructured.




                                                 4
At the program design, two financial audits and a strategic audit had been completed and a
number of reforms were already under way. The restructuring of SOTOCO was included in the
reform program because of its significant impact on the rural population and on poverty.

Financial sector: Togo's financial sector performance had declined sharply since the 1990s. At
program inception, two banks under state control--Union Togolaise de Banque (UTB) , and
Banque Togolaise pour le Commerce et l'Industrie (BTCI) ­ accounted for almost half of the
Togolese banking market (as measured by deposits), had negative equity, failed to comply with
WAMU prudential standards, and had an excessive rate of non-performing loans on their
balance sheets. The high exposure of most Togolese banks to the public sector constitutes an
unhealthy concentration of risks and was crowding out financing for the private sector.
Restructuring these ailing state-owned banks was therefore considered critical to macroeconomic
stability and effective financial intermediation, a prerequisite to private sector development. The
ERGG and the Financial Sector and Governance Support Project, which is providing technical
and financial support in parallel to the ERGG and follow on ERGG II, assisted with the first
stage of the restructuring, i.e. the former by supporting the establishment of a new BTCI
administration to manage the implementation of restructuring measures, and the latter by
replacing non-performing loans with government securities in end 2008, and accelerating the
recapitalization of the banks. Deepening of reforms and seeking strategic partnerships were
expected to follow at a later stage.

Energy sector: Electric energy is supplied by Compagnie Electrique du Benin (CEB), a joint
venture between Togo and Benin, and distributed by each country's own national electricity
company, here the Compagnie d'Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET) . Whereas the issues linked
to CEB's supply capacity1 remained outside the scope of the program, the power outages
severely affecting the production capacity of the Togolese economy were at least partially due to
CEET's own management problems and needed to be addressed urgently. In 2000, management
of CEET had been contracted out for 20 years, for a management fee, to a joint venture between
Elyo of France and Hydro-Québec International of Canada. However, in February 2006 the
Government cancelled the contract, claiming that the foreign management team had failed to
meet its contractual commitments, especially in respect of improving power supply and
expanding the network. A management committee was set up for a transitional period of 6
months, subsequently extended several times. This prolonged transition period coincided with
the energy crisis and was not conducive to finding and implementing appropriate solutions.

Considering the crucial importance of reliable energy supply for the economy, the ERGG
supported the Government's short-term action plan to provide a permanent solution for the
management of CEET.

1.5     Revised Policy Areas.

The policy areas were not revised.



1
   Approximately 80% of electricity was typically imported from Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire. In 2007, an
interconnection with Nigeria eased this dependence, but quantities supplied remained below expectations.


                                                   5
1.6    Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements
and schedule, and funding allocations):

There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations of this operation.


2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1   Program Performance

As noted, the ERGG was an integral part of the World Bank's Interim Strategy for Togo, for the
period May 2008 - June 2010, which was presented to the Board simultaneously. The grant
supported specifically a pillar of the ISN, which in turn was in line with the I-PRSP pillar
"Improve economic governance and transparency", through a focus on public finance
management and promoting governance and efficiency in the key sectors of the economy.
Addressing governance issues under this pillar was indeed considered crucial for achieving
economic recovery and providing resources for urgent social needs under the second and third
pillars of the ISN.

The eight prior actions retained under the ERGG reflected the priorities of the Government's
reform program (I-PRSP adopted in March 2008) and of the Bank's interim strategy, and were
thus critical first steps for the implementation of a broader, medium-term reform program. The
prior actions, the rationale for their selection and their status are shown in table 1 below.

In the months following the approval of the ERGG, the reform program has been pursued and
deepened by the Government despite a very unfavorable international environment, as discussed
below.

Macroeconomic performance: The economic recovery under way since 2006 (real GDP growth
of 4 percent) slowed down to 2 percent in 2007, mostly due to the impact of severe flooding on
agricultural output and to electricity shortages which constrained overall economic activity. In
2008, Togo was among the economies most adversely affected by the global price shocks, due to
three aggravating factors: (1) through its role as a regional transit hub, the country has
traditionally high fuel imports (around one third of the import bill since the surge in oil prices);
(2) it relies heavily on diesel-based electricity generation; and (3) the phosphate industry is very
energy-intensive. This situation was compounded by a second heavy flooding in August 2008
(after a previous flooding in 2007). As a result, real GDP growth barely reached 1 percent in
2008, whereas inflation climbed to 8.4 percent, mostly due to the higher fuel and food prices.
Real GDP growth is expected to recover in 2009 to 2.5 percent due to a rebound in food
production and an increase in public investment. Also, inflation is projected to decline to 3.1
percent due to a fall in energy and food prices. The current account deficit is expected to remain
high at around 7 percent, as exports growth remains subdued and imports rise to some extent,
especially related to counter-cyclical fiscal measures.




                                                 6
Despite these external shocks, Togo maintained its prudent fiscal stance in 2008, in line with its
objective to achieve a balanced primary fiscal position. For the first half of 2008, the authorities
were able to keep tight fiscal discipline, by sharply reducing and even eliminating the
"accelerated" spending procedures (payment orders without prior budget line identification, cf.
prior action 3) of previous years. The primary fiscal surplus in the first half of the year exceeded
the initial target by a large margin. However, in the second half of the year, the impact of the
external shocks hit with full strength and contributed to a reduction of tax revenues of 0.5
percent of GDP for 2008. On the expenditure side, the situation required additional spending of
about 1.75 percent of GDP, justified by emergency infrastructure repairs after the flooding and
increased social spending, including salary and pension arrears, to alleviate mounting tensions
caused by severely eroding real incomes due to rising food and fuel prices. Due to the fiscal
discipline of the first half of the year, the domestic primary fiscal balance for 2008 turned out to
be still slightly positive at 0.4 percent of GDP. As a result of the broadly satisfactory economic
performance despite a very difficult international environment and external shocks in 2008, the
first review of the PRGF supported arrangement was positive and paved the way for access to
additional resources to help close the financing gap created by the price shocks and flooding.

Sound fiscal performance characterized the first half of 2009 (data is available for the first
semester). The domestic primary fiscal balance for 2009 is projected at -0.3 percent of GDP
(compared to -0.6 percent in the last IMF PRGF review). Although this reflects primarily
underspending for investment due to capacity constraints, it is also the result of increase in tax
collections (reflecting a successful strategy of reducing tax rates and broadening the tax base).
Non-tax revenue also benefited from unexpected dividends and license fees. Current
expenditures, however, were higher than expected, although the authorities expect to keep to the
programmed levels for the year. In June, the authorities enacted a supplementary budget to
support economic output and recovery in response to the global economic and financial crisis.
The supplementary budget was expected to be financed mainly from expected additional
resources linked to the payment of the mobile phone licenses renewals, which did not materialize
thus representing a constraint to government spending in 2009. The government continues to
successfully implement the IMF-supported PRGF arrangement and the IMF Board completed its
third review in November 2009, with all quantitative and structural performance criteria met.



             TOGO: Selected macroeconomic Indicators                2006 2007 2008 2009
             Real GDP growth (%)                                      3.9    1.9    1.8    2.5
             Inflation CPI (%, yearly average)                        2.2    1.0    8.4    3.1
             Domestic primary balance excl. grants (in % of GDP)      -1.1   0.2    0.4    -0.3
             Overall fiscal balance (payment order basis) as % of GDP -3.8   -1.9   -0.9   -2.4
             External current account balance (as % of GDP)           -6.6   -6.4   -7.1   -7.0
             Gross international reserves in months of imports        3.1    3.1    4.1    4.5




                                                      7
External debt: The Government cleared its arrears to the World Bank Group in May 2008
through a bridge loan and its arrears to AfDB in July 2008. The major part (US$146.9 million) of
the proceeds of the ERGG was used to repay the bridge loan. The Government has since fulfilled
its current debt service obligations to major multilateral creditors. Togo reached the Decision
Point under the HIPC Initiative in November 2008 after establishing a six month track record of
reforms under the PRGF and reaching agreement with Bank and Fund staff on completion point
triggers. This enabled the Government to benefit from interim debt relief under the HIPC
Initiative's "fiscal window", pending the completion point which will provide further debt relief
under the MDRI.

Domestic arrears: A domestic arrears clearance strategy was adopted to restore supplier
confidence and a National Debt Clearance Commission was established by Decree. The strategy
involved the clearance of all arrears identified by the initial 2007 KPMG audit, which was
updated in 2008 and validated by the Government. The implementation of the first phase of the
strategy for repayment of domestic arrears (priority to claims up to CFAF 100 million, about
US$200,000) contributed to the survival of many small businesses, especially in the construction
sector and in the context of the global economic and financial crisis impact. A revitalized local
SME sector will be crucial for ensuring a positive distributional impact during the anticipated
period of economic recovery.

Public financial management: Togo's public expenditure management improved significantly in
the months prior to the approval of the ERGG and has remained one of the Government's key
priorities until the present time. Compared to a previous situation of distorted budget cycles (i.e.
the delays with budget preparation did not allow enough time for proper review by
parliamentarians ­ by law 45 days- and budgets were adopted several months after the start of
the budget year), a high percentage of "extra-budgetary" spending (i.e. without prior line item
identification), inadequate treasury management, and poor internal and external budget controls,
recent achievements include: (i) timely submission of the 2008 and 2009 budgets to the National
Assembly before the end of the fiscal year; (ii) introduction of a monthly dashboard (treasury
plan) to monitor budget execution; (iii) introduction, starting with the 2008 budget, of a line item
to cover force majeure expenditures due to natural catastrophes; and (iv) elimination of the use
of exceptional payment orders without ex ante budget line identification.

On the basis of the recommendations of the 2006 PEMFAR updated in 2008-2009, additional
measures to improve expenditure management were implemented after the completion of the
prior actions laid out in the ERGG: (i) the 2009 budget adopted a functional classification of
public expenditures, which allows for monitoring of poverty reduction expenditures; (ii) in
addition to the monthly instrument (dashboard) for monitoring budget execution, the SIGFIP
integrated budget execution information system is being implemented, to enhance efficiency;
(iii) in an effort to build permanent internal capacity, the treasury department has been re-
organized and strengthened in line with the WAEMU directive, including the creation of a
General Payments Office (Paierie générale), a General Revenue Office (Recette générale) and a
Treasury Central Accounting Agency (TCAA) and nomination of their respective directors in
December 2008, as well as introducing short-term treasury bill auctions; (iv) the Government
created and staffed a new internal audit and inspection unit (Inspection générale des Finances,




                                                 8
General Finance Inspectorate) under the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, and nominated the Inspector General in August 2008.

In the crucial area of public procurement, the Government started to address some of the major
weaknesses identified by the PEMFAR: (i) the legal and regulatory framework in force did not
permit strict observance of the fundamental principles of transparency and equity of treatment,
and encouraged the use of non-competitive and sole source methods; (ii) the national tender
board (CNM) had too broad a role, combining the regulatory and control functions, and
inadequate capacity; (iii) internal and external controls, audits, and anti-corruption measures
were either non-existent or ineffective; and (iv) none of the procurement related information was
disseminated. Considering the importance of procurement on public finance outcomes, the
Government went beyond the ERGG prior action of adopting an action plan for public
procurement. In May 2008, it re-established the National Committee for Coordination and
Monitoring of Procurement Reforms (CNCS), which includes the representatives from the
private and the public sectors and the civil society; in June 2008, the Government announced
through a declaration of the Council of Ministers, further details of the procurement system
reform, including the implementation of the use WAEMU's Procurement Directives and the use
of the OEC/DDAC Baseline Indicators (BLI) Methodology, with the technical and financial
support of external partners. A decree was published revising the national competitive bidding
threshold to the equivalent of US$50,000 (down from US$200,000). The new procurement law
was subsequently adopted by the National Assembly in June 2009 and the full procurement code
was adopted in November 2009. Agreement was reached to make available ex post the list of
contracts awarded, in the gazette L'Entrepreneur published by the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry of Togo (CCIT). Public contracts are published monthly on the Ministry of Finance
website.
Good progress was also achieved in the key sector reforms supported by the ERGG.

Phosphate sector: There was no ERGG prior action related to this sector. A further action
recommended the publication of the results of a reconciliation of the 2007 revenues generated
from sales of the phosphate company, with revenues received by the public treasury department
(from dividends ­ the new company SNPT is 100 percent state-owned since 2007 - and from tax
revenues). Although the revitalization of this sector is crucial for the recovery of the Togolese
economy, the ERGG endorsed the prudent approach taken by Government, i.e. to subject any
further course of action to the findings of a detailed audit, subsequently financed under the
LICUS trust fund. The lack of financing for adequate modern equipment did not allow the
company to take advantage of a short-lived surge in world phosphate prices (from about US$40
for most of the decade to an average of $350/ton in 2008). Production increased slightly from
750,000 tons in 2007 to 850,000 tons in 2008, but is still below one third of capacity. An audit
and strategy study was completed in October 2009 and a workshop organized in November 2009
to discuss and validate the recommendations. The authorities are committed to preparing a new
sector strategy by end-2009

Cotton sector: The two prior actions related to the extent of past over-billing and to a forward-
looking action of restructuring the cotton ginning company SOTOCO. (i) A Billing Verification
Task Force was established to review the cases of over-billing (inputs, supplies and shortfalls in
fiber revenues) identified in a previous audit, with the understanding that subsequent action



                                                9
would be initiated based on the findings of the task force. (ii) The decision to liquidate SOTOCO
was taken in early 2008 and a new company (NSCT- Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo) was
created in 2009 by decree. A reliable management information and cost accounting system is
expected to be in place by February 2010. Moreover, a new regulatory framework for the cotton
sector will be put in place that specifies the roles, responsibilities and obligations of sector
stakeholders in a new environment potentially comprising private ginning companies.
Meanwhile, a new cotton producer price mechanism that reflected changes in international prices
was adopted in January 2009.

Financial sector: Among the ERGG's prior actions was the appointment of new management for
one of the largest troubled banks, BTCI, to speedily implement the restructuring measures, as
recommended by WAMU's Banking Commission. The tenure of the existing provisional
management was extended until September 2009. Some important measures included in the
BTCI restructuring plan have already been implemented by the time of this ICR, including the
implementation of a stabilization plan and the re-launching of banking activities. Prudential
ratios and liquidity have improved and non-performing loans to the amount of 50 billion CFA
(ca. US$100 million) were securitized through a global agreement between the Government and
major banks.

Energy sector: The ERGG prior action required a permanent management and oversight
structure for the electricity company CEET, in order to implement an action plan expected to
address the critical challenges of the energy sector in Togo. The members of the board of
directors (Conseil d'Administration) were appointed in March 2008, and new company statutes
(in conformity with OHADA company law) adopted by the Supervisory Board (Conseil de
Surveillance), also in March 2008. A Director General was appointed in April 2008. The
Government also signed a performance contract with CEET for the 2009-2013 period to improve
technical and managerial efficiency, including the reduction of high electricity losses.

The Government has taken additional short-term actions to improve the efficiency of the energy
sector. They include: (i) co-sponsoring, as a member of the West African Power Pool (WAPP),
the development of a transmission backbone to enhance power trade across countries in the sub-
region; and (ii) development of domestic power resources to enhance energy sector resilience to
supply shocks.

Beyond the issue of improved accountability and technical efficiency, both CEET and its energy
supplier CEB are in a difficult financial position, reflecting broader structural deficiencies. To
address these issues in a more comprehensive way, a sector strategic review (financed by the
LICUS grant for Economic Recovery and International Reengagement) has been commissioned.
On the basis of the review, an electricity sector strategy will be formulated and adopted.




                                               10
    Table 1: ERGG Prior Actions, Rationale and Implementation Status at time of ICR
            Action                           Rationale                Status at ERGG approval and at ICR

I. Improving Public Finance Management
1. Budget Formulation. The         No compliance with timeline      Completed prior to ERGG approval. ­ A
Government has submitted a         of normal budget cycle, i.e.     draft budget, which took into account IDA's
draft 2008 budget, which takes     approval of the budget by the    comments, was submitted to the Assembly
into account IDA's comments,       National Assembly before the     and subsequently voted into the 2008 budget
to the National Assembly           beginning of the fiscal year.    law (Loi des Finances 2008). Timely
                                                                    submission continued with the 2009 budget
                                                                    law voted in December 2009.
2. Budget Execution. The           Excessive reliance on budget     Completed prior to ERGG approval. - First
Government has adopted, by         execution through treasury       monthly dashboard established in February
ministerial decision, and          advances that bypassed           2008. The dashboard is examined during
implemented an instrument          commitment control, and on       monthly treasury plan review meetings and
(dashboard) for the monthly        cash management procedures       allows identification of potential slippages
monitoring of budget                                                (dérapages). The dashboard has helped
execution.                                                          correct previous frequent errors on the
                                                                    deposit account and contributes to the
                                                                    regulation/ reduction of the backload of
                                                                    pending payment orders (mandats en
                                                                    instance à payer).
3. Budget Execution. The           Emergency and force majeure      Completed prior to ERGG approval.
Government has:                    justification used to            (i) The budget line was introduced, starting
(i) introduced a budget line,      circumvent normal budget         with the 2008 budget, as
starting with the 2008 budget,     procedures.                      subheading"dépenses d'urgence"
to cover force majeure             Use of exceptional payment       (emergency expenditures), under the general
expenditures (natural              authorization without ex-ante    heading "Other current expenditure".
catastrophes, etc.); and (ii)      budget line identification was   (ii) By décision of the Minister of Economy
forbidden (by ministerial          pervasive, it completely         and Finance (no 050 dated Feb.19, 2008),
decision) the use of Payment       undermined normal budget         the use of payment orders without
Orders (PO) not supported by       execution procedures.            corresponding budget line identification was
Telegram Letters (TL), except                                       formally prohibited. The share of such
for the servicing of external                                       payment orders in total expenditure was
debt.                                                               reduced from 36 percent at end-December
                                                                    2006 to almost non-existent during budget
                                                                    year 2008. This measure had a very positive
                                                                    impact on financial orthodoxy.
4. Public Procurement.             Weaknesses in public             Completed prior to ERGG approval. - The
Adoption (by the Council of        procurement. Non compliance      action plan was adopted and a procurement
Ministers) of an action plan for   with two WAEMU directives        law was subsequently voted by the National
public procurement reforms on      of 2005 requesting member        Assembly on June 26, 2009
the basis of the 2003 CPAR.        countries to update their
                                   national procurement
                                   legislation.
II. Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in Key Sectors ­ Cotton, Energy, Financial
Cotton Sector
5. Over billing in SOTOCO.         Improve the financial            Completed prior to ERGG approval. ­The
A Billing Verification Task        management of SOTOCO and         billing verification task force was



                                                         11
            Action                            Rationale                Status at ERGG approval and at ICR
Force has been established to      its ability to pay farmers in     established and submitted its findings to the
review the cases of potential      time.                             Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of
over billing identified in the                                       Finance later (February 2009) forwarded the
audit (regarding inputs,                                             report to the Ministry of Justice, requesting
supplies and shortfalls in fiber                                     it to take legal action toward recovering the
revenues) and clarify which                                          confirmed over-billed amounts.
ones require follow up.
6. SOTOCO Restructuring.           Considering the previous          Completed prior to ERGG approval. ­
A decision has been taken (by      pervasive mismanagement           Decision by Supervisory Board (Conseil de
the SOTOCO Surveillance            across all layers of the          Surveillance) in February 2008 to liquidate
Council) on the option for         company highlighted by the        the company and in the meantime to appoint
restructuring/liquidating          strategic audit, restructuring    a new board of managers (Conseil
SOTOCO based on the final          was not considered a viable       d'Administration). Interministerial decree
strategic audit adopted after      option, although the new          (no 2009-011/PR of Jan.23, 2009) dissolves
the audit validation workshop.     management appointed in           SOTOCO and 2nd decree (no 2009-011/PR,
                                   2005 had already undertaken a     signed the same day) creates NSCT
                                   number of reforms.                (Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo). The
                                                                     new company is held jointly by the
                                                                     Government (60 percent) and the cotton
                                                                     farmers association FNGPC (40 percent).
Energy Sector
7. CEET's Management. A            After termination of the          Completed prior to ERGG approval.
definitive management              concession contract with Togo     (i) Appointment (by the Supervisory Board
structure of CEET has been         Electricité in February 2006,     ­Conseil de Surveillance) of the members of
implemented, as evidenced by:      the company was run by a          the Management Board (Conseil
(i) the establishment of a         temporary management              d'Administration) in March 2008, (ii)
Board of Directors (according      committee. This situation         adoption of the company statutes (in
to Law no 90-26 of December        needed to be regularized          conformity with OHADA company law) by
4, 1990); (ii) the adoption of     urgently to enable                the Supervisory Board, also in March 2008;
the statutes of CEET in            management to take the            and (iii) appointment of a Director General
harmony with the OHADA             strategic decisions required by   in April 2008. However, the position is
law; and (iii) the appointment     the energy crisis.                vacant again since February 2009 following
of a General Manager.                                                a negative assessment by the Supervisory
                                                                     Board of the state of progress made with
                                                                     implementing the Action Plan and reducing
                                                                     energy losses. The deputy director fills the
                                                                     position.
Financial Sector
8. BCTI's Administration. A        The Bank had been managed         Completed prior to ERGG approval. -
new BTCI administration has        by a "provisional                 The tenure of the provisional administration
been put in place to manage        administrator" since 2006,        was extended until September 2009. Some
the implementation of the          appointed by the WAMU             important actions included in the
restructuring measures, as         Banking Commission and with       restructuring plan have already been
recommended by WAMU's              limited powers. Far-reaching      implemented. Prudential ratios and liquidity
Banking Commission.                restructuring required a          have improved, and non-performing loans to
                                   permanent management              the amount of 50 billion CFA (ca. US$100
                                   structure representing            million) were securitized through a global
                                   shareholders.                     agreement between the Government and
                                                                     four major Togolese banks (BTCI, UTB,
                                                                     BTD and BIA-Togo).




                                                           12
2.2   Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Factors outside the control of the Government

Adverse external price shocks and a second major flooding within a year (June 2008) had a
negative impact on the growth rate of the economy during the ERGG implementation period.
While the shocks and the resulting low growth rate did not directly affect the pace of reform, the
PFM reforms would have produced better short-term results (as in the first half of 2008) without
the tax revenue contraction and additional spending required to alleviate the impact of the price
shocks on the living standard of the population. But staff believes that the sustainability of
reforms will not be affected by such short-term influences.
Among the few positive external factors in 2008 was the Euro (and hence the CFAF)
appreciation against the dollar which helped cushion to some extent the surge in the oil import
bill. 2 Another potentially positive development was the short-lived increase in world phosphate
prices (from hovering around $40/ton since 2000 to an average world price of $350/ton in 2008).
The newly created state-owned phosphate company was not in a position to fully take advantage
of this wind-fall because of limited production capacity, but the jump in international prices at
least allowed the company to pay dividends to the Treasury for the first time in many years.

Factors generally subject to Government control

Government Ownership: The Government's strong commitment to maintain macroeconomic
stability and advance structural reforms in key economic sectors was a positive factor and
remained constant during the ERGG implementation period and afterwards despite adverse
external shocks. The reforms were part of the Government's own reform agenda articulated in
the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy adopted in March 2008 and the subsequent Poverty
Reduction Strategy adopted in May 2009, leading to strong ownership of the reforms. Moreover,
the renewed confidence created by the Comprehensive Political Agreement (Accord Politique
Global ­ APG) and the imminent perspective of donor re-engagement helped create broad
support for the program among all stake-holders: administration, private sector and civil society.
Capacity constraints: Insufficient capacity, both in quantitative and qualitative terms, had been
identified as a significant risk in the project document and was indeed responsible for some
delays. The problem was alleviated through a fiscal technical assistance mission carried out by
AFRITAC. Moreover, resources made available from the LICUS trust fund to finance technical
assistance (mainly audits and studies) did help mitigate the lack of capacity in the central
administration and parastatals. Intensive country dialogue and close involvement by the Bank


2
    In addition to the positive effect of the appreciation of the Euro on the oil import bill, the existing price
mechanism (based on constant prices that generate surpluses or shortfalls for the government vis-à-vis oil
companies) resulted in gas prices at the pump being frozen while oil importers initially absorbed the negative
differential. As this stabilization mechanism inherent in the oil price structure will ultimately cause a delayed
revenue shortfall for the budget, the Government intends to change the mechanism in order to prevent the build-up
of contingent public liabilities.



                                                       13
staff, in particular the local staff, also contributed to overcome the constraints. As a result, and
other than some implementation delays, the capacity constraints did not affect the substantive
progress of the reform program.

2.2   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E design
According to the Program Document, a monitoring committee was to be created to coordinate
implementation of the program of reforms supported by the ERGG; it would comprise: (i) within
the MEF, the Economy Director, the Budget Director, the Treasury Director, and the Financial
Controls Director; and (ii) the Secretary of the CNCR for procurement issued as well as the line
ministries involved (the Ministry of Agriculture as oversight agency (tutelle) for the cotton
parastatals and the Ministry of Mines and Energy as oversight for the phosphate company).

M&E implementation
The Ministry of Economy and Finance was entrusted with the responsibility for the monitoring
and evaluation of the policy implementation under this operation. Instead of creating a new
"monitoring committee" as foreseen in the initial design, the program was successfully
coordinated by an existing high-level team within the Ministry, the Comité de Suivi des
Programmes et Réformes, which is headed by the Secretary General of the Ministry. This
arrangement was dictated by the strength and continuity of this team within the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and their involvement in the ongoing policy reform dialogue, including
with other partners. The main technical responsibility for implementation of the public financial
management reforms fell upon the Budget and Treasury Departments, whose representatives are
part of the Public Finance Steering Committee (Comité de pilotage des finances publiques)
which had been created in 2005. The sector reforms were implemented by the respective
technical departments in the sector ministries, under the oversight of the ministers in charge of
agriculture (cotton sector), mining (phosphates) and infrastructure (electricity).The Government
prepared regular progress reports on the implementation progress of the reforms, other than the
prior actions already taken for the Board presentation of the operation.

M&E Utilization
The overall reform efforts were reviewed by the Government in close coordination with regular
Bank missions to ensure continued implementation of the program. The evaluation results were
also used to inform the preparation of the subsequent ERGG II.

2.3   Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

The ERGG was prepared in the context of a reengagement strategy after six years of suspension.
One of its objectives, arrears clearance, was expected to pave the way for future World Bank
operations, both policy lending programs and investment / capacity building projects. In
anticipation of a follow-up DPO (ERGG II), the ERGG policy matrix identified a set of 11
reform measures to be considered for possible additional development policy assistance from
IDA, upon evaluation of their results during the operation's implementation period. These
measures were aimed to further improve public finance management as well as governance and
transparency in the key sectors of the economy. They are summarized in the table below:


                                                14
                           Table 2: ERGG Further Actions and ERGG II prior actions
                                                                        4




               ERGG further actions                                                        ERGG II prior actions
I. Improving Public Finance Management
Budget Formulation.                                                         Budget Formulation and Monitoring
1. (i) Satisfactorily implement the 2008 budget and publicize the           1. (i) Publicize the 2008 budget execution report; and (ii) submit a
quarterly 2008 budget execution reports ; (ii) Submit a 2009 budget,        2009 budget to the National Assembly before the end of the 2008
satisfactory to IDA, to the National Assembly.                              fiscal year in line with the I-PRSP priorities
Budget Execution.                                                           Budget Execution
2. Finalize the organization of the Treasury in line with the               2. Finalize the organization of the Treasury in line with the WAEMU
WAEMU Directive, as evidenced by the creation of a Paierie                  Directive, as evidenced by the creation of a General Payment Office
générale, a Recette générale and a Treasury Central Accounting              (Paierie générale), a General Revenue Office (Recette générale) and
Agency.                                                                     a Treasury Central Accounting Agency (TCAA).
3. Adopt (by the Council of Ministers) a strategy to clear domestic
arrears.
Budget Controls.                                                            Budget Controls
4. (i) Create and staff an internal audit and inspection unit               3. (i) Create and staff an internal audit and inspection unit (Inspection
(Inspection Générale des Finances) under the direct responsibility          Générale des Finances) under the direct responsibility of the Minister
of the Minister of Economy and Finance; and (ii) nominate the               of Economy and Finance; and (ii) nominate the Inspector General.
Financial Auditor General.
Public Procurement.                                                         Public Procurement
5. (i) Adopt a new public procurement code, taking into account             4. Transmit to the National Assembly the draft procurement law
IDA's comments and consistent with the WAEMU Directives; and                consistent with the WAEMU Directives.
(ii) publish procurement contracts in the weekly procurement                5. Publish a summary of procurement contracts for 2008 in the bi-
journal.                                                                    weekly journal "L'Entrepreneur" published by the Togo Chamber of
                                                                            Commerce and Industry.
II. Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in the Key
Sectors ­ Cotton, Phosphate, Energy, Financial
A. Cotton Sector                                                            A. Cotton Sector
6. Take measures to recover the over billed amounts which have              6. Take measures to recover the over billed amounts to SOTOCO
been confirmed by the Billing Verification Task Force (Mission de           which have been confirmed by the Billing Verification Task Force
Verification).                                                              (Mission de Verification).
7. Establish: (i) a trustworthy management information system; (ii)
a cost accounting system; and (iii) clear financial control
procedures for the processing of sales, accounts receivable, receipts
and purchases.
8. Adopt a cotton producer price mechanism that reflects changes in         7. Adopt a new cotton producer price mechanism that reflects
international prices.                                                       changes in international prices.

B. Phosphate Sector                                                         B. Phosphate Sector
9. Publish the results of a reconciliation of the 2007 revenues             8. Publish the results of a reconciliation of the 2007 revenues
generated from phosphate sales, with revenues received by the               generated from phosphate sales, with revenues received by the public
public Treasury.                                                            Treasury that year.
C. Financial Sector                                                         C. Financial Sector
10. Achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of the              9. Raise the net worth of the three banks under restructuring (BTCI,
restructuring measures for BTCI, BIA and UTB according to the               UTB and BIA) to the WAMU prudential ratio (Cooke ratio) by
timetables, and develop a financial sector strategy.                        exchanging the banks' non-performing loans with government-issued
                                                                            bonds.
D. Energy Sector                                                            D. Energy Sector
11. Develop and adopt a 3-5 year performance contract between               10. Develop and adopt a 3-5 year performance contract between the



                                                                        15
the State and CEET.                                            State and CEET.
     A follow-up operation ­ ERGG II ­ was presented to the Board in April 2009, about 10 months
     after approval of the operation under review. Most of the further actions identified under the first
     ERGG were integrated as prior actions in the design of the ERGG II and implemented before
     Board presentation. There were some limited adjustments to take into account exogenous factors
     not fully under the control of the Government (notably delays in recruitment process for a
     consultant to develop and establish the cotton company's cost accounting system), the dropping
     of the measure regarding satisfactory implementation of the 2008 budget which was closely
     monitored under the IMF PRGF and ERGG II and determined to have been broadly achieved
     despite challenging domestic and international circumstances, the dropping of the measure to
     adopt a strategy to clear domestic arrears which overlaped with an IMF-supported PRGF
     performance criterion (the measure was implemented at end 2008), and the dropping of the
     measure to prepare a formal financial sector strategy since ongoing sector measures already
     reflected implementation of a sector strategy. The cotton sector measure regarding the cost
     accounting system was also dropped from the ERGG II and expected to be taken up in the
     follow-on operation. An ERGG III is currently under preparation to support the continuation of
     the Government's program of reforms which continues to advance satisfactorily.

     3.      Assessment of Outcomes3

        3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
     priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

     The ERGG objectives, design and implementation were fully consistent with the context of the
     multi-donor re-engagement process and the country's main post-crisis priorities, i.e. restoring
     sound public finance management as well as improved governance and efficiency in the key
     sectors of the economy. The Comprehensive Political Agreement reached among political parties
     in 2006 and the inclusive legislative elections held in October 2007 presented a window of
     opportunity and led to the re-engagement of major donors, starting with the EU. The program's
     design was appropriate to country circumstances and in particular Togo's status as a fragile state
     with severe governance problems. Providing support for arrears clearance for normalization of
     relations and subsequent access to IDA resources was a necessary first step. In parallel,
     advancing structural reforms was crucial for the sustainability of economic recovery after the
     arrears clearance. The operation was well aligned with the Bank's Interim Strategy Note and was
     closely coordinated with the IMF program of support and the AfDB arrears clearance operation.

     Consistency with Government priorities: The ERGG was consistent with the priorities outlined
     in the interim PRSP and in the Letter of Development Policy. The main objectives of the I-PRSP
     are the improvement of political and economic governance, a sustainable recovery of the
     economy, and social and human development. In the area of economic reforms, the I-PRSP
     emphasizes three pillars: (i) restoring fiscal and debt sustainability; (ii) improving
     public finance management; and (iii) strengthening governance and transparency in
     the management of key public enterprises. The specific reforms supported by the
     operation were critical elements in the reform strategy. A full PRSP was under
     3
         For programmatic DPL, sections 3 through 5 will include and justify individual ratings for each operation in a
         programmatic series.


                                                             16
preparation at the time of this operation and was expected to be completed within one year (it
was adopted in June 2009). The reform priorities supported by the ERGG became integral and
important elements of the PRSP which confirmed the orientation of the Government's reform
program.

Program design: The Bank responded quickly and in full compliance with its Operational Policy
8.60 on Development Policy Operations.4 This was made possible by the existence of well
grounded diagnostic work (PEMFAR, sector studies). Togo received exceptional arrears
clearances support from IDA5. This exceptional allocation of IDA resources to finance the
Togo's IDA arrears clearance was warranted given the country's low level of income, very high
indebtedness, and limited capacity to mobilize domestic resources after the prolonged period of
political and economic instability. An exception to the arrears clearance policy under the OP
13.40 which was approved by the Board was necessary to "address the requirement of the bridge
lender to effect an intra-day transaction, which requires the maximum amount of time within that
day for the process to be undertaken successfully." The focus on public financial management
and preparation and/or implementation of far-reaching reform in key sectors of the economy was
ambitious but realistic, given the widely shared awareness that these issues were at the root of
the country's economic demise and crucial for economic recovery and development. The design
was deliberately kept simple, focusing on those priorities. The timing of the operation was driven
by the need for arrears clearance as a first step to multi-donor re-engagement and also reflected
the realization that the deficiencies in public financial management and the large losses of public
enterprises in major sectors had become an unsustainable drain on the economy and needed to be
stopped quickly. The appropriate timing also contributed to creating a critical mass, as it took
place in parallel with IMF, EU, and AfDB programs as major providers of budget support.

Relation with Bank Strategy: By supporting the full normalization of relations between IDA and
Togo and supporting governance reforms in key sectors, the ERGG was a critical element of the
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) which was discussed by the Board simultaneously. The overarching
goal of the ISN for the period May 2008 ­ June 2010 is to help Togo recover from the long
period of instability and suspension of aid and begin laying the foundations for sustained, shared
growth over the medium term. The three pillars of the ISN are (i) support for the normalization
of relations with the World Bank through the clearance of arrears which would set the stage for
provision of regular IDA resources and pave the way towards debt relief under the HIPC
Initiative and MRDI; (ii) assistance to improve public financial management and governance in
key sector institutions; and (iii) assistance to address critical social needs. The ERGG address all
three areas of focus of the ISN.

Complementarities with other Bank activities: The ERGG was designed and implemented in
close cooperation with other Bank interventions. Ongoing activities were by the nature of the
country situation non-lending at the time of the ERGG approval. A CPAR of 2003 and a
PEMFAR conducted in 2006 and a then ongoing PEMFAR supported the objective of improving

4
 OP 8.60 notes that "countries affected by crisis or conflict may require an unusually quick response from the Bank.
There may not be sufficient time or country capacity to adequately address design considerations (such as possible
distributional effects, effects on natural resources and the environment, fiduciary arrangements), or a strong policy
program developed with stakeholder consultation"
5
    See IDA 15 policy paper "Further Elaboration of a Systematic Approach to Arrears Clearance", June 2007.



                                                              17
public financial management. Sector studies to be financed under a LICUS grant were being
launched to lay the analytical groundwork for improving governance in key sector institutions.
Identification of lending projects proceeded at the same time, including a Financial Sector and
Governance Support Project, that is currently supporting the financial sector reform program.

Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality: The ERGG was aligned with the
Bank's five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality.

(i) Reinforce Ownership: The ERGG was fully aligned with the Government's reform program
focusing on improving public expenditure management and strengthening governance and
transparency in the key sectors (phosphates, cotton, energy, and financial). Ownership was
reinforced through intensive dialogue with the authorities during 2007. The Ministry of Finance
championed the reforms and coordinated the dialogue with those sector ministries (agriculture,
mining, energy) were governance reforms of state-owned enterprises were identified as crucial
for the success of the program, as well as with the BCEAO which has oversight for the banking
sector.

(ii) Agree upfront with the Government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework: The ERGG supported the Government's reform program summarized
in a policy matrix. The core of the program was developed during intensive dialogue in 2007 and
builds on the findings of the 2006 PEMFAR and a then ongoing PEMFAR, Financial Sector
Assessment, CPAR, the IMF Article IV consultation and SMP, and the Development Policy
Needs Review. The program has been closely coordinated with and supported by other
development partners such as the IMF, AfDB, EU and bilateral donors and the expected results
were agreed upon.

(iii) Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances: The policy matrix was customized to country circumstances by including key
sectors critical to the recovery of the Togolese economy because of their impact on export
generation, fiscal sustainability, the financing capacity of the economy (banking sector) and
poverty reduction (cotton sector).

(iv) Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement: The set of
prior actions was limited to eight policy measures critical to moving the Government's reform
agenda forward. They are consistent with and complementary to the reform program supported
by the IMF PRGF approved in April 2008.

(v) Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-bases
financial support: Transparent progress reviews have been carried out through joint Bank-Fund
missions and through regular follow-up by staff. Close cooperation was also ensured with the EU
and AfDB in the areas where these organizations have focused, notably public financial
management.

Risks and Risk Mitigation: The ERGG largely recognized the principal risks to the program and
identified mitigating measures to address these risks (see Table 3). During the implementation of
the operation, these risks were successfully mitigated or did not materialize. (cf. section 4 for a
detailed discussion of risk assessment to development outcome). However, the operation did not



                                                18
anticipate the global economic crisis. While this slowed down Togo's economic growth, affected
its public finances and postponed some private investment projects, it had limited impact on
program implementation as it was successfully mitigated through several measures, including
robust phosphate prices, prudent fiscal policy and additional financing from donors, including
from the Bank-financed ERGG II. Overall, risks and mitigation measures were well identified
and the assessment of the likely outcome of mitigation measures was realistic.

                     Table 3: ERGG Anticipated Risks and Mitigating Factors

                            Risk                                               Mitigating Factor
  Political risk: Stalling of reform program through          Outside of Bank operation's scope, but mitigated by
  resurgence of influence of non reformers and other          broad-based consultations with stakeholders and the
  political tensions.                                         Government's commitment.
  Macroeconomic risk from inability of the Government         Close monitoring of macroeconomic performance by
  to maintain stable medium-term framework or from            IMF and World Bank. FY08 community driven
  vulnerability of the economy to climatic or commodity       project addressed food crisis, FY09 Financial Sector
  price shocks.                                               and Governance TA provided advisory assistance to
                                                              financial sector and the size of the ERGG II was
                                                              increased from US$12 million to $US20 million to
                                                              help the government address the impact of the crisis.
  Fiduciary risk from failure to make effective and           2006 PEMFAR and its 2008/2009 update, technical
  efficient use of fiscal space made available through the    assistance provided by IMF and Bank helped
  operation and failure to avoid corruption.                  improve fiduciary standards. Budget support
                                                              component disbursed in dedicated account which can
                                                              be audited.
  Implementation capacity risk from limited capacity          Resources were made available for technical
                                                              assistance to capacity building through the LICUS
                                                              Trust Fund for Economic Recovery and International
                                                              Reengagement (US$1.6 million, signed in February
                                                              2008). This trust fund complements the ERGG by
                                                              supporting governance, procurement and strategic
                                                              reviews of the phosphates, cotton, energy, coffee and
                                                              cocoa sectors. The AfDB put in place a small
                                                              capacity building project, whereas the EC and France
                                                              provided for international experts in the Ministries of
                                                              Finance and Development.


3.2   Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The ERGG successfully achieved its DPO objectives by: (i) facilitating the settling of arrears
towards IDA, which was required to restore normal relations between Togo and the World Bank;
and (ii) supporting the country in its economic recovery after the prolonged period of political
and economic instability. In addition to clearing Togo's arrears, funding provided under the
ERGG also enabled the government to remain current on its external debt obligations and fund
immediate budgeted fiscal needs including for key social services. Under the ERGG, the World
Bank has been one of the government's key partners in stabilizing the fiscal situation and
improving fiscal management. Furthermore, it helped advance structural reforms in the most
critical sectors of the economy (energy, cotton and financial sector), thereby setting the stage for
higher economic growth.


                                                         19
As detailed in Table 4, in addition to achieving its PDOs and the government pursuing and
deepening the reforms supported by the ERGG after its disbursement and closure, the ERGG met
or came very close to meet most of the anticipated results that were expected to be achieved by
the time of grant closing on June 30, 2009, as described in the Program Document. As detailed in
Table 4, two of the anticipated results that were not achieved, resulted in part from endogenous
and in part from exogenous factors, while one was achieved with some delay.

                  Table 4: Anticipated results and actual outcomes of the ERGG

                 Anticipated Result                                          Actual Outcome
  Budget execution in line with approved budget as      The 2008 budget has been executed at 94.05 percent; this
  indicated by deviation of executed expenditures       represents a deviation of 5.94 percent at the end of 2008
  from the budget being less than 5 percent of the      compared to the initially approved budget.
  budgeted expenditures, for each semester and
  each year - baseline: end-2007 value estimated at
  6.9 percent.
  The net worths of the two commercial banks            After the securitization operation, the two commercial
  (BTCI, UTB) with negative net worth have              banks BTCI and UTB have increased their net worth to
  increased to at least 8 percent of total assets,      6.11 percent and 13.83 of total assets, respectively, as
  consistent with WAMU prudential norms ­               evidenced by their 2008 annual financial reports.
  baseline: the two commercial banks had negative
  net worth as of December 31, 2006.
  Relations with key multilateral creditors are         As of end-December 2008, no new arrears to multilateral
  normalized and no new arrears incurred -              creditors have been reported in the TOF (Tableau des
  baseline: as of end-December 2007, large arrears      Opérations Financières). Relations with key multilateral
  to most multilateral creditors, including the Bank    creditors are normalized. Arrears to IDA were cleared in
  and AfDB.                                             May 2008; arrears to the AfDB Group in July 2008. The
                                                        Togolese authorities have also made progress with other
                                                        multilateral creditors (see details in the HIPC Decision
                                                        Point, Report No. P7711-TG).
  A procurement reform program is being                 The procurement law was voted in June 2009 and the
  implemented and a procurement code has been           procurement code was adopted in November 2009.
  adopted - baseline: as of end-December 2007, the
  Government had yet to adopt a procurement
  reform program.
  Seed cotton production has increased by 25            Notwithstanding reform efforts to restructure the State-
  percent at the end of the 2008-09 crop season ­       owned SOTOCO, adverse climate (including severe
  baseline: as of the 2007-08 crop season, seed         floods during the 2008-09 crop season) had a negative
  cotton production was 48,000 tons.                    impact on cotton production; output reached 31,000 tons,
                                                        a 35 percent decline over the previous crop season.
  Under the electricity company's performance           Losses for 2008 (both technical and commercial) are
  contract, the level of losses in CEET's electricity   estimated at 20.8 percent of total output, slightly higher
  grid has declined by 1 percentage point a year ­      than 2007 losses.
  baseline: as of end-December 2007, the losses
  were 20 percent.


In assessing the overall outcome, the difficulty in anticipating achievement time needs to be
taken into account, given the recent Bank reengagement. However, the reform program proceeds




                                                         20
satisfactorily, beyond the six outcome indicators listed above, and this despite severe exogenous
shocks.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of
PDOs):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The operation is rated moderately satisfactory. The operations development objectives were
achieved. Most of the anticipated results broadly materialized despite multiple exogenous
shocks, and the sustainability of the reforms implemented is likely over the medium term. The
unfavorable outcome of cotton production was the result of flooding during the crop season and
not of a lack of reform measures. The electricity company was not able to reduce the percentage
of losses in the grid as its new performance contract was signed with some delay in February
2009. Objectives, design, implementation and outcomes were highly relevant to country
circumstances and development priorities and reflect the Bank's strategy as outlined in the ISN.
The Government continued implementation of reforms under the ERGG II in a satisfactory
manner, and prior actions for this follow-up operation were implemented by March 2009. The
HIPC decision point was reached in November 2008 and the Government is making good
progress in implementing the HIPC prior actions towards the HIPC completion point expected in
late 2010. Furthermore, the Government continues to implement and deepen reform measures,
with the support of the ERGG III under preparation, the Financial Sector and Governance
Support Project, and the IMF-financed PRGF. The overall outcome rating is however moderately
satisfactory since two of the anticipated results were not achieved, in part due to endogenous and
in part to exogenous factors, while one was achieved with some delay and two results were close
to the anticipated values.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously
covered or to amplify discussion above):

(a)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

A positive impact on poverty reduction was anticipated as a result of the arrears clearance, by
creating fiscal space, and due to the specific reforms being supported by the ERGG.

Both the arrears clearance and the remaining part of the grant intended for budget support had a
beneficial impact on the poor during 2008. The oil and food price shocks of 2007-2008 had led
to increasing social tensions due to the erosion of living standards. The financing provided by the
operation, and through tight fiscal discipline by the Government, enabled the administration to
pay outstanding civil service salary and pension arrears (after a decade-long freeze) and support
basic social services. The reform of the cotton sector had a direct impact on the livelihoods of
about 300,000 farmers who received payment arrears due to them from previous crop years;
incentives for farmers to increase production under the new ginning and marketing company
NSCT in which they hold a 40 percent stake have also increased.

Reforming the financial sector helped strengthen the financial situation of institutions affected by
the crisis and improves the soundness of the banking sector, which in turn contributed to


                                                21
macroeconomic stability and helped re-launch economic activities which had been severely
affected by the crisis, including the labor intensive construction sector. Regarding gender impact,
the reform of the banking sector is set to benefit Togo's women traders ­ the well known "Nana
Benz" - whose business operations have been hampered in recent years due to the economic
downturn, but also by lack of financing through local banks. The same is true for the SME sector
in general, most notably the labor-intense construction sector. In this context, the first phase of
the repayment of domestic arrears, focused on smaller priorities claims, contributed to the
survival of many small businesses and ensured a positive distributional impact during the
anticipated period of economic recovery.

Improving governance and transparency in the phosphate, energy and financial sector reduced
these sectors' drain on the budget and even strengthened government revenue in the case of the
phosphate company which paid dividends to the Government for the first time in many years.
Reforms in key sectors thereby created additional fiscal space - beyond the financial resources
provided by this grant - to enhance expenditure for basic social services.

Efforts to improve the capacity of the state to implement budget priorities and strengthen public
financial management were expected to enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in
public resource use and increase the country's absorption capacity for external resources. Indeed,
these reforms helped pave the way for a three-year IMF PRGF arrangement approved in April
2008, a further IDA development policy operation and the attainment of the HIPC decision point,
all of which helped create additional fiscal space for economic recovery.

Finally, by normalizing the government's relations with the World Bank, the operation was part
of a broader re-engagement of the international community which was expected to support the
political stabilization and economic reform efforts. This appears to have been achieved, as the
country remained politically broadly stable and the reform program advanced. For IDA
specifically, this operation permitted the re-launching of a full program of financial support,
beginning with a Community Development Project and a Financial Sector and Governance
Reform TA project. Some positive effect is also likely to have occurred with respect to other
partners, such as for instance the AfDB whose arrears were cleared in July 2008 and assistance
program resumed.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening

The operation greatly contributed to institutional strengthening in public finance management,
and gave impetus to efforts to strengthen the institutional set-up and efficiency of entities in the
phosphate, cotton, financial and energy sectors.

In public finance management, the measures supported by the operation led to strengthening of
budget preparation, execution and control (both internal and external), after the weaknesses of
the system had been identified in the 2006 PEMFAR. Budget and treasury management rules and
norms were either explicitly re-affirmed or re-introduced by the Ministry of Finance (e.g.
through the ministerial decision to prohibit payments without prior line item identification,
obligation to submit the draft budget to the National Assembly before the end of the fiscal year)
in the many instances where they already existed but had been gradually disregarded over the



                                                22
years, or those rules were newly established (force majeure budget line, publication of budget
execution and of contract awards). A new Auditor General's Office was created (Cour des
Comptes). The Treasury was reorganized and strengthened, and a new internal audit and
inspection unit was created. Moreover, staffing changes at the highest levels of the Ministry of
Finance gave additional credence to a rule-based system and ensured strict implementation. The
roll-out of the integrated financial system contributed to more efficient planning and monitoring
and, as an added benefit, made ad hoc / discretionary decisions by Ministry staff more difficult
and traceable.

In the key economic sectors where reforms were supported by the operation, institutional
strengthening took the form of audits, liquidation or restructuring of companies, conforming their
statutes to OHADA laws, increased oversight, better management structures, and broad
stakeholder participation in the case of the cotton company.

(c)   Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

Due to the implementation of stricter procedures in the processing of expenditures (commitment
of expenditure and payment orders are henceforth prohibited without reference to a specific
budget line), public investment decreased in 2008. This drawback should be temporary and was
addressed with the integration of corresponding lines in the 2009 investment budget. Public
investment figures for 2009 are projected to increase indicating that the problem has been
resolved.

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

The reforms achieved under the operation are likely to be sustained over the medium term. The
positive impact on poverty reduction of some of the reforms could even help mitigate the
underlying socio-political risks which are outside the scope of this operation. However, the
country remains exposed to several exogenous risks and is attempting to emerge from a long
period of political instability, factors which could all threaten the sustainability of the reforms
resulting from the operation. These risks are outlined below, together with the actual experience
and the mitigating measures employed to address them.

Political risk: The Comprehensive Political Agreement (Accord Politique Global) brokered by
Burkina Faso in 2006, the installation of a political unity government in late 2007 and the
prospect of upcoming inclusive presidential elections in 2010 have helped prevent a resurgence
of political instability prior to and after the approval of the ERGG. While the modalities of
organizing the 2010 elections have recently led to new disagreements among the political parties,
a compromise is apparently under way, again facilitated by Burkina Faso. However, a resurgence
of political tensions or even new violence could be triggered if the 2010 elections are not
perceived to be fair and inclusive. Such a situation could jeopardize donor support and stall the
implementation of the Government's reform program. While political risks fall outside the direct
scope of World Bank operations, it is expected that the Government's awareness of those risks




                                                23
and of their likely impact on the newly found support of the international community would help
prevent their materialization.
The risk of more or less open resistance by vested interests to reform in the key economic sectors
has been largely avoided by the Government's strong commitment to increased governance and
transparency, liquidation or restructuring of the parastatals involved and corresponding
management changes. The possibility however exists that in the future, vested interests linked to
the financial beneficiaries of the poor governance practices could creep back into the
management or oversight structures of the new companies and negatively impact the
sustainability of the reform process.

Macroeconomic risk: The ERGG identified Government's potential inability to maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework and the vulnerability of the Togolese economy to climatic and
commodity price shocks as the two main risks for the operation, possibly resulting in a situation
where the country could fall back into arrears. Although the latter risk materialized, through the
food and fuel crisis and the global economic slowdown, the Government was steadfast in its
determination to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. The public finance
management reform resulted in better control of expenditures and increased revenue collection,
and helped maintain the domestic primary balance at +0.4 percent of GDP in 2008. The ERGG
could not foresee the international financial crisis which broke out in the fall of 2008. For the
time being, the impact on the Togolese economy has been mitigated thanks to robust phosphate
prices and prudent fiscal policy. There was, however, a reported postponement of some private
investment projects in the Export Processing Zone, which may also reflect other reasons,
including the uncertainty of the tax regime. Donor support was also provided for both the food
and fuel crisis and the global slowdown, including through the ERGG II.

For the medium term, the IMF and the World Bank will continue to closely monitor the
Government's macroeconomic performance. The appreciation of the CFA Franc (aligned with
the Euro) against the dollar remains a concern. Reaching the HIPC Decision Point in November
2008 has already provided some debt relief and achieving the Completion Point (expected date:
end 2010) will further alleviate the burden and contribute to debt sustainability.

Fiduciary risk: The operation presented limited fiduciary risk, as US$146.9 million (out of
164.4) were programmed to permit the clearance of IDA arrears under standard procedures. The
remaining US$17.6 million were to provide budget resources to increase social and economic
development expenditures. Nevertheless, the ERGG program document had noted the risk of
possible failure of the Government to make effective use of the financing provided by the budget
support, due to corruption and weak financial controls. However, the improvement of fiduciary
standards was a central objective of the ERGG through measures to improve public financial
management. The 2006 and ongoing PEMFARs and technical assistance provided by donors
facilitated further improvement of these standards. In addition, the proceeds of the budget
support component were disbursed by IDA in a dedicated local currency account of the
Government.

Implementation capacity risk: The lack of implementation capacity - arising from the lack of
sufficient professional staff in key ministries and from weak institutional capacity and
coordination after the 15 year of socio-political instability and suspended foreign assistance -



                                               24
was identified as a risk to timely and satisfactory program implementation. However, and as
expected, the mitigation measures put in place helped prevent this lack of capacity from causing
implementation delays. Financial resources were made available under a parallel LICUS Trust
Fund for Economic Recovery and International Reengagement (US$1.6 million, signed in
February 2008) and provided technical assistance to carry out assessments and formulate
strategies in key reform areas (financial audits and strategic reviews of the phosphates, cotton,
and energy sectors, as well as the coffee and cocoa sectors which are still potential sources of
growth in the context of the recovery). Extensive country dialogue and close follow-up by the
Bank staff, in particular the local staff, helped move reforms forward. Capacity building in the
areas supported by ERGG continues to be provided under follow-up ERGGs, and the Financial
Sector and Governance Support Project and the LICUS grant activities. Nevertheless, with many
experienced civil servants having left the civil service or expected to retire, capacity building
needs will require more detailed identification and support under a future CAS. In the meantime,
UNDP assisted with the preparation of a preliminary assessment on capacity building needs in
some major ministries and in the National Assembly, but further work is needed.

5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1   Bank Performance

(a)   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

This operation entailed an extensive and wide-ranging effort to ensure quality at entry. A
significant amount of preparation was required by the Bank to manage the risks relating to the
timing of the operation (especially given the significant amount of time the country had been in
non-accrual status) and to ensure that the arrears clearance could take place. Three preparation
missions took place, allowing the task team leader to achieve a thorough understanding of the
issues and sector specialists to identify problems and propose solutions in the respective sectors.
The preparation of this operation and the arranging of the bridge loan required a substantial
effort and cross-institutional coordination, most notably with the IMF's PRGF and with the
parallel arrears clearance by the AfDB. Although this operation benefited from the experience of
the arrears clearance efforts in Liberia and Côte d'Ivoire which went to the Board shortly before,
the arrears clearance aspect required close attention to the timing and appropriate sequencing of
the various steps involved and had to be structured in a way that took into account the particular
circumstances of the country.

Identification and design of the ERGG was based on the Governments reform program evolving
from the dialogue under the IMF's Staff Monitored program, the preparation of the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy and was fully aligned with priorities highlighted in the Bank's ISN.
The prior actions targeted crucial reforms which were central to enabling the economic recovery.
The policy dialogue leading to the ERGG supported reform program benefited from solid
analytical underpinnings: the 2003 CPAR, the 2006 PEMFAR updated in 2008, the 2006
Financial Sector Assessment and specific studies and/or analysis undertaken by Bank staff




                                                25
during missions related to the phosphate, cotton and electricity sectors and for the preparation of
the 2008 Development Policy Needs Review.

The Bank team worked closely with the Government teams and coordinated preparation and
appraisal of the operation with other donors (most notably the IMF, the AfDB, and the EU). The
areas of cooperation with the IMF included (i) arrears clearance and monitoring of the fiscal
situation; (ii) support to the Government's preparation of its interim PRS; (iii) the debt
sustainability analysis; and (iv) the HIPC process. While the IMF played a major role in assisting
with the macroeconomic medium term framework and coordinated with the EU on expected
flows of funds and sustainability issues, the Bank led the support in the area of financial
accountability and governance in the phosphate, cotton and electricity sectors. Public financial
management and financial sector reform were a shared responsibility. Coordination with the
AfDB was also very close, especially on arrears clearance. The arrears clearance under this
operation paved the way for the subsequent clearance of Togo's debt towards the European
Investment Bank.

(b)   Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Supervision of progress made under this
operation took place in parallel to the preparation of the follow-up operation, the ERGG II,
during two supervision missions and regular technical follow-up by Bank staff. The supervision
of the ERGG drew on the M&E mechanisms put in place by the authorities and assessed by
Bank staff during supervision missions, and through regular contacts between the authorities and
the Bank staff. During supervision activities, Bank staff coordinated closely with the IMF
missions and other donors, reducing transaction costs for the government and ensuring program
adherence to the government's development priorities. The close supervision allowed addressing
at an early stage emerging implementation weakness as the government tried to deal with the
impact of the food prices increases in 2008.

(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

As Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision is rated satisfactory, overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory in accordance with the ICRR harmonized evaluation criteria
guidelines.

5.2   Borrower Performance

Note: According to the ICCR Guidelines, if government and implementing agency are
indistinguishable, as this is the case for DPL operations, a rating and justification is provided
only for Overall Borrower Performance, as done below.
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                26
The Government of Togo's performance during the ERGG was satisfactory as reflected by its
ownership and commitment to the reform program, although the context of implementation was
fragile and complex. The country was hit by multiple exogenous shocks, rising petroleum
products and food prices, major flooding which affected the infrastructure and damaged
agricultural output, and the global economic slowdown. Nonetheless, Togo's commitment to the
reform program continued to be strong despite these shocks and the country's capacity
constraints. Furthermore, in spite of the fact that following the 2007 legislative elections the new
government took two months to take office, the reform agenda continued without impediment.
The government has expressed his determination to break with the past and turn Togo in a new
direction underpinned by necessary growth and governance reforms. The government accorded
high priority to improving economic governance and to strengthening public administration,
including by the formation of a government that is reform-minded and politically inclusive,
including Ministers from opposition parties and civil society. The strong commitment to pursue
reforms was further demonstrated by the adoption of the PRSP, which builds on the Interim
Strategy for Poverty Reduction and presents a comprehensive strategy covering most of the
challenges and areas of action to foster growth and reduce poverty.

The formulation of the PRSP also provided an opportunity to further broaden consensus as it
involved all development actors and regions of the country, in particular it involved the private
sector, religious groups, the non-government organizations, the National Assembly and the
technical and financial partners. In addition, the government improved its coordination with the
donor community in the areas covered by this operation. Stakeholders and civil society were
consulted extensively in the debate about the orientation of the ERGG. The relationships and
coordination with the World Bank and other donors throughout the ERGG implementation were
excellent and the authorities addressed most reforms issues on a timely basis, although as
indicated above there were some delays in implementing some follow-up actions.

As shown in Section 2.1 (Program Performance) and Section 3.2 (Achievement of Program
Development Objectives), important progress was made towards the government's objectives to
regularize the relation with its creditors, stabilize the fiscal position, improve transparency,
accountability and efficiency in the public financial management, and implement important
governance reforms in the energy, cotton, phosphates, and financial sector, setting the conditions
for broad economic recovery. In some areas, progress went beyond the measures specifically
included in the program. For example in the phosphate sector, the Government took initial steps
for membership in the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) process and is
exploring cooperation with other West African countries on a harmonized mining sector strategy.

6.    Lessons Learned

This operation shows that significant progress can be achieved in a fragile country emerging
from crisis with a well designed program as long as the Government demonstrates strong
commitment and is ready to take courageous action to increase transparency and good
governance. The specific lessons that can be learned from this operation include:

(i)   In the context of a fragile country, the continuation of basic analytical work is of
      paramount importance to provide the underpinnings of subsequent operations; this puts the



                                                27
      Bank in a position to react quickly once a window of opportunity opens. The processing of
      the ERGG within a very short timeframe would have not been possible without the prior
      findings of the CPAR, the PEMFAR, the FSA, and the sector studies carried out in
      preparation of the Development Policy Needs Review.

(ii) Close coordination with other development partners, both with regard to substance of the
     program and timing, has been indispensable to mitigate risks and improve the leverage in
     the policy dialogue. It also provided some scope for dividing responsibilities according to
     the main strengths of each partner. Coordination between the ERGG, the IMF PRGF and
     the AfDB budget support operation created a critical mass and proved particularly
     important.

(iii) Given the capacity bottlenecks in the country and the fragile political situation, it was
      necessary to ensure that the arrears clearance and development policy operation were
      accompanied by appropriately targeted technical assistance, by the Bank and other donors.
      In this case, the ERGG was supported by the LICUS grants and the Financial Sector and
      Governance Reform TA project.

(iv) In fragile country situations, it is particularly important to select a focused number of prior
     actions that are deemed essential to supporting the Government's broader reform program.
     Selectivity not only reduces transaction costs for the Government that is burdened by
     multiple management demands while the capacity is weak, but also increases the likelihood
     that these reforms are successfully implemented and the reform program moves forward.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)   Borrower/Implementing Agencies:

Government has provided some minor editorial suggestions on the draft ICRR (which have been
incorporated) and agrees with the overall report.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

N/A




                                                28
         Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)     Task Team members

                Name                            Title                Unit   Responsibility/ Specialty
      Lending (from Task Team in Program Document)

      James Bond                  Country Director                AFCF2
      Antonella Bassani           Sector Manager                  AFTP4
      Christina Wood              Sr. Economist (TTL)             AFTP4
      Hugues Agossou              Financial Management            IADDR
                                  Specialist
      Itchi Gnon Ayindo           Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
      Yves A. Duvivier            Consultant                      AFTP4
      Wolfgang Chadab             Sr. Finance Officer             LOAFC
      Nicolas Ahouissoussi        Senior Agriculture Economist    AFTAR
      Daria Goldstein             Sr. Counsel                     LEGAF

      Sunil Mathrani              Sr. Energy Specialist           AFTEG

      Giuseppe Zampaglione        Social operations Officer       AFTSP

      André Ryba                  Lead Financial Sector Spec.     AFTFP
      Yvette Dan-Houngbo          Economist                       AFTP4
      Franklin Koffi S.W. Gbedey Financial Management Spec.       AFTEG
      Elianne Tchapda             Program Assistant               AFTP4
      Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


      Madani M. Tall              Country Director                AFCF2
      Yvette Dan-Houngbo          Economist                       AFTP4
      Christina A. Wood           Sr. Economist                   AFTP4

      Joseph Baah-                Country Manager                 AFMBJ
      Dwomoh

      Philip English              Lead Economist                  AFTP4

      Manuela Francisco           Sr. Economist (TTL)             AFTP4
      Judite Fernandes            Program Assistant               AFTP4




                                                          29
(b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
            Stage                No. of Staff Weeks                  US$ Thousands
                                                             (including travel and consultant
                                                                          costs)
Lending
            FY08                        28.4                              159.8
                    TOTAL:
Supervision/ICR
             FY09                       1.05                               29.5
                    TOTAL




                                               30
      Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N/A




                          31
      Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A




                                 32
      Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

N/A




                                    33
      Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     34
                           Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Program Document, March 19, 2008
2.   Letter of Development Policy
3.   Tranche Release Document
4.   Appraisal Aide-memoire, August 29, September 9, 2008
5.   Recommendations of Statutory Committee, March 2008
6.   Financial Agreement, May 29, 2008
7.   Supplemental Letter, May 29, 2008
8.   Aide-memoire, Technical Mission, March 2008
9.   Minutes of Negotiations, April 14, 2008
10. Interim Strategy Note and Economic Recovery & Governance, May 29, 2008
11. Program Information Document, April 15, 2008
12. Minutes of Concept Note Review Meeting, March 19, 2008
13. Closing Memorandum, July 31, 2008
14. Memorandum of Understanding, July 27, 2008




                                                   35
Annex 7. Country Map




         36
