                                                                   45170
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective M a y 30,2008)


                     Currency Unit = U S Dollars
                             1SDR = 1.63 US$
                 1CongoleseFranc = 550 US$

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1  - December31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCECO  Bureau Central de Coordination (Delegated Contract Manager)
BOP    Balance o f Payment
DRC    Democratic Republic of Congo
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
ESIA   Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMF   Environmental and Social Management Framework
MODRU  Delegated Contract Manager
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
O&M    Operation and Maintenance
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
SDR    Special DrawingRights
UCOP   Project Coordination Unit




                    Vice President:     Obiageli K.Ezekwesili
                 Country Director:      Marie Franqoise Marie-Nelly
                    Sector Director     Inger Andersen
                   Sector Manager:      Eustache Ouayoro
               Task Team Leader:        Mahine Diop




                                    ..
                                    11


                                             Restructuringofthe
        DRC EmergencyEconomic& SocialReunificationSupport Project
                                    (Credit3824) & (GrantH064)


                                                   Project Paper


                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                     Page

DataSheet for ProjectPaper              ..........................................................................................     iv

Introduction.......................................................................................................................     1

Backgroundand reasonsfor restructuring                           ....................................................................   1

Projectimplementationperformance                       .............................................................................    4

Proposedchanges     ..............................................................................................................      4

Expectedoutcomes      ............................................................................................................      7
  Annex 1: Assessment ofproject achievements ...............................................................                            8
  Annex 2: Results Framework of restructured project ...................................................                              12
  Annex 3: Summary o f Proposed Changes ....................................................................                           15
  Annex 4: Revised Table of Expenditures categories o f the project..............................                                     16
  Annex 5: Project Costs by Component ........................................................................                        17
 Annex 6: Results Framework o f restructured project ..................................................                                18




                                                             ...
                                                             111


                                   Data Sheet for Project Paper
      DRCEmergency Economic & SocialReunification Support Project (P081850)


Date: August 21, 2008                                    Task Team Leader: MahineDiop
Country: Democratic Republic o f Congo                   Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro

& SocialReunification Support Project                    Environmentalcategory: B




Responsible agency: UCOP




Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?



Original project Development Objective and Outcomes
The objective o fthe Projectis to assist the Borrower inits economic and social reunification
efforts thereby stabilizing countrywide administration, through: (a) balance o fpayments support;
(b) institutionalstrengthening o f entities and governance systems throughout its territory; (c)
infrastructure rehabilitation; (d) urbanrehabilitation; and (e) community empowerment.
Revised project development objective/outcomes:
The objectives o f the project are: (i) assist the Borrower in its efforts to economically and
                                            to
socially reunify the Eastern provinces to the rest o f the country; and (ii)          to increase access to and
use by the local population o f basic infrastructure and social services in the provinces o f
Orientale, Maniema, Nord%vu, Sud%vu, NordEquateur, NordKatanga, NordKasai Oriental.
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o




  'The  S D W S Dollar exchange rate rose from 1.4 at appraisal to 1.63 by M a y 30, 2008.


                                                     iv


                                    Restructuringof the
           DRCEmergencyEconomic& Social ReunificationSupportProject

                                        ProjectPaper


INTRODUCTION

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Democratic Republic o f Congo (DRC) Emergency Economic
and Social Reunification Support Project (Credit 3824 and Grant H064) and any
accompanying amendments to the project's legal document.

2.       The proposed changes will support the full realization o f the revised project
development objective and outcomes as well as optimal utilization o f undisbursed funds
from IDA (US$58.0 millionundisbursed as o f M a y 30,2008)

3.       The restructuring measures being proposed are to:

         (i)reducethescopeofworksontheRN2(Bukavu-Mbuji-Mayi) road;
         (ii)canceltheforestzoningsub-component;
         (iii)reformulatetheProjectDevelopmentObjectives(PDO)andtheresults
              framework;
         (iv) reallocate the Project Grant proceeds; and
         (v) extendthe project closing date from September 30,2008, to September 30,
              2010.

4.       As a result o f these changes, the project is expected to be more effective at
achieving the proposed PDO. The objectives o f the project are to (i)     assist the Borrower
inits efforts to economically and socially reunify the Easternprovinces to the rest ofthe
country; and (ii) increase access to and use by the local population o f basic infrastructure
and social services in the provinces o f Orientale, Maniema, Nord Kivu, Sud Kivu, Nord
Equateur, Nord Katanga, Nord Kasai Oriental. As revised, this PDO is in line with the
government strategy o f creating an environment for an economic and social reunification
o f the country.

BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

Objectives, Design and Scope

5.       The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Borrower in its economic and social
reunification efforts thereby stabilizing countrywide administration, through: (a) balance
o f payments support; (b) institutional strengthening o f entities and governance systems
throughout its territory; (c) infrastructure rehabilitation, (d) urban rehabilitation; and (e)
community empowerment. The Project was approved by the Board o f Directors on
September 11,2003, for a total Credit amount o f SDR 35.7 million (about US$50 million
equivalent) and a Grant amount o f SDR 117 million (about US$164 million equivalent).

The Development Financing Agreement for the Project, between the Democratic
Republic o f Congo (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
Association) was signed on September 22, 2003, and declared effective on December 5,
2003. The initial closing date o f the Agreement is September 30, 2008. As o f M a y 30,
2008, SDR 35.7 million has been disbursed (representing 100 percent o f the Credit) and
SDR 81.38 millionhas been disbursed (representing about 69.5 percent o f the Grant).

6.    The Project includes five components:

      a- Balance of Payments support (BOP) (US$50 million equivalent) to assist
          the government incarrying out its Program

      b- Institutional Strengthening (US$15 million equivalent): priority areas
          were: (i)   economic governance and reform -- improve revenue generation
          capacity (capacity for fiscal administration, customs administration, and the
          central bank, in eastern and northern provinces); (ii)improve capacity to
          manage public resources with a focus on strengthening public resource
          management inreunified provinces; (iii)    strengthen transparency by extending
          the scope o f the recent reforms to the entire country including the anti-
          corruption commission's activities, conducting audits o f tax and customs
          administrations, screening payrolls to help remove ghost workers, and
          building constituency for the fight o f corruption through information
          dissemination and public relations; (iv) improve public dissemination and
          economic debate; (v) support the PRSP process; (vi) support for forestry
          reforms (further work in this area is being dropped under the proposed
          restructuring); (vii) reunite and decentralize public institutions; and (viii)
          prepare engineering and other studies for preparing the extension o f the
          Emergency      Multi-sector   Rehabilitation    and Reconstruction      Program
          (EMRRP).

      c- InfrastructureRehabilitation(US$90 millionequivalent): This component
          was to finance (i) rehabilitation o f a 750 km highway, the Kisanani-Beni road
          (RN4) at a cost o f US$42 million equivalent; (ii)   rehabilitation o f a 780 ktn
          highway, the Bukavu-Mbuji - Mayi road (RN2) at a cost o f US$44 million
          equivalent; (iii)rehabilitation o f a 10 km section o f RN1 highway including
          patching, backfilling, cleaning o f ditches and maintenance o f shoulders (US$4
          million equivalent); and (iv) maintenance o f the rehabilitated RN4 and RN2
          roads for a two year period. Maintenance was to be also contracted through a
          performance-based arrangement with an agreed level o f service as part o f the
          contracts for the roads rehabilitation.    Contractors were to rely to a large
          extent on communities living along the roads for such maintenance works.
          Duringproject implementation, it became clear that the number o f kilometers
          to be rehabilitated was more than anticipated at appraisal (1,779 km instead o f
          1,540 km). In addition, under the Indigenous People Development Plan
          prepared for the Pygmies, a 155 km road linking Niania-Wamba-Maboma-
          Mungbere would be repaired where needed and two small wooden bridges
          would be built. The improvement o f this road would benefit 16,000 Pygmies


                                            2

             and would cost US$260,000.           An aggregated Environmental and Social
             Management Plan(ESMP) would be prepared prior to launching the repairs.

         d- UrbanRehabilitation(US$30 millionequivalent): (i)                 micro-grants (US$18
             million equivalent) to finance subprojects to develop and implement
             mechanisms for rehabilitation o f local infrastructure and service delivery in
             four large cities o f Bukava, Goma, Kinduand Kisangani, and (ii)         micro-grants
             (US$10.5 million equivalent) to finance subprojects to develop and implement
             mechanisms for rehabilitation o f local infrastructure and service delivery in
             eight smaller cities o f Bummba, Butembo, Isiro, Kalemie, Kalima, Kassongo,
             Lusambo and Uvira. Activities envisaged were education, health, community
             centers, water, markets, slaughterhouses, transport, energy, sewerage and
             drainage network rehabilitation, public squares, and other labor intensive
             projects. The focus was on ensuring sustainable O&M o f the rehabilitated
             infrastructure. About US$1.5 million equivalent was for project management.

         e- Community Empowerment (US$lO million equivalent): sub-grants to
             communities to support participatory decision making and strengthen social
             capital, capitalize village assets, facilitate local recovery, improve service
             delivery in poor rural communities, inject liquidity in a cash deprived rural
             economy; and hence restore some purchasing power and revive monetary
             transactions.

7.       The total project cost was US$214 million equivalent and it was fully financed by
IDA (credit for the BOP support and a grant for the rest o f the project). Because o f the
SDR/US dollar exchange rate movements the project has US$58.0 million undisbursed as
o f M a y 30, 2008 (and US$132.6 million equivalent disbursed) from the Grant. The BOP
support disbursed amount was equivalent to US$52.7 million because o f the SDWS
dollar rate. As a result, in dollar terms, the total disbursed and undisbursed financing is
about US$243.3 million.2

8.       The project i s being implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (UCOP),
under the Ministry o f Planning. Implementation o f components 4 and 5 are entrusted to
Delegated Contract Managers.

9.      The main reasons for the proposed restructuring are (i) inability to finance,
                                                                          the
with the existing resources, the cost overruns associated with road works on RN4
(Kisangani-Beni) road and 1,020 kilometers on RN2 (Bukavu-Mbuji-Mayi); (ii) high          the
likelihood that the RN2 will be financed through the DRC-China Infrastructure Program;
(iii)therecognitionthatmanagingtheimportant forestry issuesinDRCrequireslong
term and comprehensive efforts that cannot be addressed through an emergency
operation; and (iv) the need for the client to achieve initial results and sustainable
outcome inview o f the fact that this operation is one o f the first inthe country following
the Bank's re-engagement inDRC after more than ten years o f interruption.



2The SDRNS dollar exchange rate rose from 1.4 at appraisal to 1.63 by May 30, 2008.


                                                 3

PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONPERFORMANCE

10.     In spite o f a very difficult implementation environment, the overall project
performance is rated satisfactory and the overall, broad PDO is likely to be achieved.
The positive project impact on the ground can be clearly seen, even though all the works
are not yet completed. The project has been instrumental inhelping the country achieve
the reunification o f its economic activities and has supported social reunification. The
project has also contributed to jumpstarting the economy inthe eastern part o f the country
which had been cut o f f from the other parts o f DRC for several years. Thanks to the
ongoing road rehabilitation, the project has enabled a population estimated at over six
million people to escape geographic isolation. Secluded inhabitants from the eastern part
o f the country can now travel by car from Kisanganito Bafwasende and Beni to Nia-Nia
for the first time since 1998 when only bicycles and motorcycles could be used. Goods
and services are now available in areas like Bafwasende that could not have benefited
from these services five years ago. Roadtraffic has resumed on the rehabilitated sections
and vehicles can now travel at an average speed o f about 70 km/h. Transportation costs
have been reduced by 40 percent as a result o f substantial time savings recorded in the
movement o f people and goods. Before the project, it took not less than five hours to
cover 60 kilometers, but now, five hours are enough to cover 290 kilometers.             The
rehabilitation o f urban infrastructure has facilitated access to basic social services
(education, health) inmany urban centers. Finally, the project has financed 1,030 micro-
projects which benefited more than412,000 people.

11.     Despite these results, the project has experienced the following constraints:

            Huge logistical problems encounteredinmoving heavy equipment, and
            acquiring goods and construction materials;
            Remote location o f project sites and size o f the country;
        0   Delays inimplementing some o f the activities;
        0   Weak supervisory capacity from executing agencies;
            Cost overruns due to the lack o f detailed technical studies as a result o f the
            poor security conditions prevailing in the eastern part o f the country during
            project preparation.   This will have an impact on the scope o f the road
            component; and
            Weak local capacity in civil engineering activities: Works were carried out in
            an environment o f a weak local private sector and a local construction
            industry with a limited number o f large scale local firms and/or subsidiaries o f
            international firms that lacks competitiveness as a result o f years o f conflicts
            that have plagued the construction industry.

Proposed Changes

12.     The proposed changes will concern:




                                              4

(i)ReformulatingtheProject Development Objectives (PDO). Theoriginal
     PDO was too general and it was difficult to directly correlate project results
     andits objectives.

(ii)better
     Adapting a new results framework to the new changed PDO in order to
             capture achievements on the ground.         In the revised results
     framework, particular focus i s given to providing a baseline and targeted
     value for each outcome. This aspect was not taken into account in the
     original results framework where baselines and targets were not clearly
     established and where most o f the indicators measured outputs.
     Arrangements have been made with the implementing agencies to closely
     monitor the impact o f the project, in accordance with the revised results
     framework.

(iii)ReducingthescopeoftheworksontheRN2road. Delaysinrehabilitation
     o f the RN4 (Kisangani-Beni) road and the RN2 (Bukavu-Mbuji-Mayi) road
     and the resulting cost increases mean that not all the planned work can be
     completed with the available resources. Thus, an agreement was reached
     between the Bank and the Government to complete the rehabilitation o f
     RN4 and to reduce works on the rehabilitation o f RN2 road on the Bukavu-
     Kasongo section at Kamituga @.e.,at PK177) by discontinuing works on the
     Mbuji-Mayi Kasongo section at Nkwawi (i.e,, at PK40). The Congolese
     government intends to complete the works on RN2 roadwith financing from
     China (this was officially confirmed to the Bank on July 17, 2008). As a
     result, the section to be rehabilitated on RN2 road will be reduced by 803
     kilometers.

(iv) Cancelling the forest concessions sub-component. The Government and the
    Bank have agreed to cancel the forest zoning sub-component and instead
    provide support to the Ministryo f Environment inthe forestry reforms. The
    original activities involved a complex set o f issues that would be better
    addressed in a comprehensive way and not through an emergency operation
    which cannot allocate the resources needed.       Based on the above, the
    government and the Bank have concluded that this sub-component fits better
    in a specific operation and should be considered under the forest project
    underpreparation.

(v) Reallocating the Grant proceeds. For the Grant, the reallocation proposed
    will help increase amounts available for Categories 2 (Works), 5(b)
    (Subprojects under Part E) and 6 (Operating costs). The total reallocation
    amount involved i s SDR 10,864,000 (9.3 percent o f the total Grant amount)
    as follows:

    a) Increase Category 2 Works by SDR 14,319,000 to cover cost overruns
         andcomplete the revised agreedrehabilitation work program.
    b) Reduce Category 3 Goods by SDR 5,536,000 to cover costs under the
         road component which i s inCategory 2 (Works). No new purchases are



                                    5

                  expected under this category and reducing the financing will have no
                  impact on the outcome.

              c) Reduce Category 4 Consulting Services by SDR 1,330,000 to cover
                  costs under the road component.
              d) Reduce Category 5(a) Urban subprojects by SDR 3,998,000; this
                  category was overestimated and all the sub-projects identified by the
                  Implementing Agency         are  completed;  increase   Category     5(b)
                  Community sub-projects by SDR 1,953,000, to complete ongoing
                  works.

              e) Increase Category 6 Operating Costs by SDR 892,000 to cover the cost
                  o f managing the project duringthe extended period.
              f ) Reduce Category 7 Unallocated by SDR 6,300,000 to cover costs under
                  the road component and provide assistance to indigenous populations.

        (vi) Extending the Project Closing Date to allow the completion o f delayed
              activities. The work program under the restructured Project will not be
              completed by the current Closing Date o f September 30, 2008. Specifically,
              rebuilding the Ruzizi power station will require an additional 21 months.
              We therefore propose an extension o f the Closing Date o f the Development
              Financing Agreement until September 30, 2010.            The Borrower has
              prepared an actionplan acceptable to the Bank to complete all activities.

13.     The arrangements above were discussed with the Government during the
supervision missions inFebruary andMarch, 2008. The Bank and Government agreed to
complete the following works within the extension phase: (i)  finalize works on RN4 and
RN2 (as described above); (ii)     rehabilitate the power supply station at Ruzizi I;(iii)
extend electricity supply to Kindu; (iv) complete the construction o f the water supply
systems in Kindu and Goma; (v) complete the rehabilitation o f the industrial avenue at
Bukavu; (vi) Rebuild the Basoko School at Kindu; and (vii) provide assistance to the
indigenous populations who may be negatively impacted by the opening o f the
Kisangani-Beni road.

14.    Analysis: The proposed changes will not have a major effect on the original
economic and social aspects o f the Project. The environmental category will remain as B
because the changes are limited to an existing road and the restructuring will not involve
any exceptions to Bank policies, nor will it have any impact or changes on the policies
that are already triggered or add new ones. Ineffect, the rehabilitation works which have
already been planned during the original phase are not expected to produce any negative
effects in terms o f land acquisition or displacement. However, should they become
necessary during implementation; RAPs will be prepared where needed in accordance
with the principals and requirements o fthe RPF. Inrelation to road rehabilitation works,
RAPs and EMPs have been prepared for the completed segments and were rated
satisfactory by Bank supervision missions. For the remaining segments, the same process
and procedures will continue. A Development Action Plan for the Pygmies has been




                                              6

prepared and approved and is under implementation. The first supervision by the World
Bank will take place inSeptember 2008.



EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

15.     The outcome and intermediate outcome indicators have been redefined in
accordance with the revised PDO. There i s a need to more accurately capture the
project's outcomes via the PDO and the key project indicators.

BENEFITSAND RISKS

16.     Benefits: As restructured, the project will help reduce the scope o f the
infrastructure component and strengthen the linkage between the achievements on the
ground, the current results framework and the PDO.

17.     Risks: The main risk which could jeopardize achievement of the restructured
PDO or outcome targets is the possible delay in managing the administrative
requirements associated with the cancellation and the signing o f addenda to some of the
contracts.   There have been delays in completing the power and water subprojects
because o f a weak response from the construction industry and cost overruns arising
mainly from implementation delays.      Sky rocketing oil prices could also impact the
completion o f the works as contractors may be tempted to renegotiate approved contracts.
In addition to that, the fiduciary risk is high in the country.   The team will closely
monitor activities to ensure that works are completed within the extended period.
Realistic cost estimates and contingencies based on recent experience have beenprepared
and annual technical audits, including selective post-procurement audits, will be
conducted to ensure that works are properly implemented.




                                            7

                                    Restructuring of the
          DRCEmergency Economic & SocialReunification Support Project
                     ANNEX1:ASSESSMENTPROJECTACHIEVEMENTS
                                              OF

1.      Balance of Payments Support Component (US$50 million) providing budget
support for critical imports has been fully disbursed. This component has been
satisfactorily implemented. It has improved the country's ability to pay for its imports
and ensure the stability of the macro-economic framework. Audit of the use o f budget
support proceeds was unqualified.

2.      Institutional Strengthening Component (US$15 million)            which aims to
complement       existing capacity     enhancement programs      i s being implemented
satisfactorily. The project portfolio to be financed under the component included 44
activities covering six major sectors comprising:       governance and economic reforms,
support to PRSP process, support to forestry reforms, reunification and decentralization
o f public institutions, preparation o f forthcoming programs and environmental and social
protection. 25 projects accounting for a total commitment o f US$5.1 million have been
carried out. Intotal, 16projects are being executed for a commitment o f US$9.2 million.
These projects account for 64.3 percent o f the total commitment. Ongoing activities
concern mainly: (a) support to the central Bank and the financial institutions, (b) funding
the reform o f the procurement system, and (c) support to the forestry reforms. These
activities are expected to be completed by late September 2008. The remaining three
activities focus on logistic support to the General Directorate o f administrative and land
revenues. Among the completed activities, it i s important to mention the funding o f
participatory consultations within the framework o f PRSP, support to institutions o f
transition, organization o f a workshop on decentralization, technical studies for the
preparation o f bidding documents in view o f the rehabilitation o f the RN5 and RN6
roads, the draft procurement code as well as its eight enforcement decrees. The draft
procurement code was sent to the parliament for adoption and i s expected to be adopted
during the next parliamentary session inOctober 2008. The enforcement decrees will be
enacted only after the procurement code has been adopted.            The project financed
preparatory studies for the Emergency Living Conditions and Improvement Support
Project (ELCISP) which built on the experience o f three ongoing sectoral Bank-funded
projects: the Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Project, the Emergency
Multisectoral Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project and the Emergency Urban and
Social Reconstruction Project. This project i s being implemented in the western and
southern parts o f the country. The legal review o f the logging concessions i s making
good progress and the process i s expected to be completed by the end o f August 2008.
Support provided to the financial institutions in the Eastern part o f the country has
increased revenue collection by 68 percent on average compared to the forecasted 40
percent.    However, several activities including the legal review o f the logging
concessions and the procurement reforms have been delayed mainly due to the 2006
elections, political difficulties inmaking the new institutions operational, and challenges
inthe field.Thedisbursementrate ofthis component is 71percent.




                                               8

3.      Infrastructure    Rehabilitation Component (US$90 million) which aims at
rehabilitating 1,779 kilometers o f the interurban road network is being implemented
satisfactorily. Implementation delays experienced at the beginning of the project were
linked to huge logistical issues associated with the remote location o f project sites, lack
o f transportation facilities compounded by the poor security conditions prevailing inthe
areas and the poor organization o f the contractors.    Commitments on this component
amount to US$98,417,492.3. About US$85,122,800 has been disbursed. As o f today,
896 km have been reopened out o f the expected 1,779 km, i.e., about 50 percent o f the
initial objective. Considering the cost overruns recorded, following an increase in initial
contract quantities, rehabilitation o f 803 km cannot be funded.    This reduction in the
length o f the roads to be rehabilitated will mainly affect the rehabilitation o f RN2 road.
Concerning RN4 road there are funds available to finance the works. Civil works on
RN4 are expected to be completed by late November 2008, during the period o f project
extension while for the FCN2 road, works are expected to be completed by late August
2008. After the road completion, maintenance o f these roads will be ensured for a period
o f one year. Within the framework o f the new road project funded by the Bank, a Road
Fund is expected to be created to take in charge road maintenance. This Road Fundis
expected to be operational by the end o f 2009. With regard to the program agreed with
the government to complete the rehabilitation o f 976 km o f roads, an additional amount
o f US$30.5 million (including maintenance costs) i s needed within the reallocation (see
Annex 5).    As o f today, major sections o f the road network have been opened up to
traffic, making a huge difference in the lives o f many poor communities that had been
secluded for decades. The disbursement rate o f this component is 88 percent.

4.       Urban Rehabilitation Component (US$30 million) aims to help activate adequate
implementation mechanisms for rehabilitation o f local infrastructure and service delivery
in urban areas. This component was implemented by the two agencies as follows:
Bureau     Central    de     Coordination  (BCECO)      (US$2,688,000)       and   MODRU
(US$27,312,000)     As o f today, the works carried out by BCECO have been completed
while those carried out by MODRU still has US$11,569,064, (i.e., 42%) to disburse.
However, the following large scale works amounting to US$14,400,000 are yet to be
completed:

            a- Rehabilitation o f the Ruzizi power station: US$6,250,000
            b- water supply at Goma, BukavuandKindu:US$4,500,000
            c- Power supply inKindu:US$700,000
            d- Rehabilitation o fthe industrial avenue at Bukavu: US$2,500,000
            e- Rebuilding the Basoko School at Kindu: US$450,000

Most biddingdocuments relating to these works have been launched and the sub-projects
are expected to be completed duringthe extension period.

5.      Completed infrastructure facilities include markets, health centers and schools in
eight secondary urban centers. These infrastructure facilities have been transferred to the
beneficiaries and are operational.        The most noticeable achievements are the
rehabilitation o f the Kisangani and Bukavu hospitals where occupation rates went up
from 56 to 89 percent and from no attendance to 70 percent respectively. Inthe schools


                                              9

rehabilitated in Goma, Bukavu, Kindu and Kisangani, the number o f pupils registered
rose from 7,245 to 8,945, i.e. an increase o f 36 percent. The rehabilitation has also
improved the learning and teaching conditions for pupils and teachers.          Before the
rehabilitation, 30 percent o f learning time was lost due to bad weather. Implementation
progress is moderately satisfactory due to delays described above and the disbursement
rate o f this component is 45 percent.
6.        Community Empowerment Component (US$lO million) aimed at financing
demand-based sub-projects inseveral remote rural locations. Despite concerns relating to
the number o f geographic locations, lack o f access to the respective areas and the nature
o f the interventions, progress in implementing this component has been satisfactory and
interest and commitment from the communities have been very high. 1,030 sub-projects
have been financed out o f 1,867 identified, for an amount o f US$6 million; with fishing,
agriculture and animal husbandry representing 37 percent o f funded micro projects, 27
percent for social micro projects in health, education and water, and 7 percent o f the
funds devoted to infrastructure micro projects like road rehabilitation and small drainage
facilities.   In the schools rehabilitated under this component, the number of pupils
registered rose by 35 percent. The activities carried out inthe water sector contributed to
a drastic reduction in water-related diseases in the city o f Isiro from 8,637 cases before
the project to 1,665 during the project. The disbursement rate o f the component i s 58.5
percent.

Environmental and Social Safeguards: Six World Bank safeguardpolicies were triggered
during project preparation and the pertaining mitigation measures identified.          The
triggered policies are: 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), 4.04 (Natural Habitats), 4.11
(Cultural Property), 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples), and 4.36
(Forests). Because o f the emergency status o f the project, the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment (ESIA) had to be prepared within the first six months o f project
effectiveness.    The Environmental Impact Assessment for Component 3 and the
Environmental and Social management Framework for Components 4 and 5 required by
OP/BP 4.01, the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), required by OP/BP 4.12 and the
Indigenous Peoples Plan, required by OP/BP 4.20 were prepared. These documents were
disclosed in D R C and at the Bank Infoshop.        Copies were disseminated to NGOs,
academics, Pygmy associations, and news agencies. Since there are no new activities
under the restructured project, the same safeguards documents will be used. The ESMF
for components 4 and 5 address environmental issues related to the remaining works to
be completed under the urban rehabilitation component as listed in paragraph 4. This
ESMF will be reviewed during the next supervision mission in September and updated if
needed, mainly regarding the Ruzizi power plant, prior to the beginning o f the works.
UCoP, the project management unit, along with the "Bureau de Controle" are in charge
o f monitoring the implementation o f the mitigation measures which are to be completed
by the contractors before launching construction works.        SOFRECO, an international
environmental and social consulting firm has been hired to assist and train UCoP staff,
the contractors and the Bureau de Control inthe areas o f environmental and social impact
and management as well as Bank safeguards, in terms o f procedures and requirements.
Duringthe last supervision mission, site visits did not reveal major environmental and
social problems. The environmental and social aspects o f the project have improved


                                             10

since the Inspection Panel investigation. An action plan for the pygmy population aimed
at promoting citizenship education, improved housing and access to basic services,
especially women's health, has been developed and approved by the Bank. A Non-
Governmental Organization (NGO) has been recruited to implement this action plan.
The Environmental and Social Management Framework accompanied with additional
mitigation measures in the field was also reviewed by the Bank and considered as
satisfactory. To reduce the negative impact o f the Kisangani-Beni road on the forest
reserve, the project financed the acquisition o f some vital equipment and activities
(communication devices, vehicles, sensitization campaigns, etc), the construction o f a
control facility at the entrance and exit o f the reserve, and the pertaining recurrent cost.
This financing has helped the reserve management to better protect the forest reserve
Furthermore, to take into account the recommendations o f the EISA, the Contractor, the
supervising consulting firm and the forest reserve management team set up an
`Environmental Committee" to prepare plans and follow-up on their implementation.
Specific recommendations regarding the safeguards management issues were included in
the contract and a dedicated specialist was hired to implement them during construction
even though more capacity would be needed. The supervising firm also appointed an
environmental specialist to deal with these issues during construction and the
recommended actions from the EISA have been gradually implemented                       The
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS)and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) have
been prepared for each 30 km segment o f roads. Training and technical assistance
activities have also been developed and are under implementation.            The Bank has
increased its safeguards supervision missions. A s part o f funds reallocation, a budget o f
US$2 million has been put aside to finance the environmental and social measures,
mainly in the area o f logging and poaching.        This budget will finance sensitization
campaigns, help the Ministry o f Environment to better fight against logging and poaching
and provide logistical support to the Ministry o f Environment. The environmental and
social safeguards were rated moderately satisfactory and will be upgraded, once the
action planfor the pygmies i s implemented on the ground inthe next two months.

7.      Financial Management: The proposed financial management will follow the
same approach as the implementation arrangements in place for the ongoing Project.
These are considered appropriate by IDA, having been improved through the
implementation o f the action plans prepared by the project following IDA supervision
missions and previous audit reports. The audit report for the period ended Dec 31,2007,
was unqualified. The Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFR) are submitted to the
Bank regularly in a form and substance that complies with IDA Financial Management
requirements, and are current.     The FM rating o f the project is deemed Moderately
Satisfactory based on the findings o f the supervision mission carried out inMarch2008.

8.      Procurement: Procurement plans are regularly updated and there is a good filing
system in place for bidding documents.       The last independent review o f procurement
procedures didnot revealed any major problems.

9.      Legal covenants: Out o f the seven legal covenants, five have been complied with
and two that deal with annual audits are ongoing.



                                              11

                                         Restructuring of the
            DRCEmergencyEconomic & SocialReunification Support Project
                ANNEX2: RESULTSFRAMEWORKRESTRUCTUREDPROJECT
                                                         OF



PDO                                         dica                        Use ofResultsInformation
Assist the Borrower in its    Number o f people in the previously       To verify implementation
efforts to economically and   isolated provinces having access to       performance and impact o f the
socially reunify the Eastern  217kmo f rehabilitated sections of RN2    Project.
provinces to the rest o f the and 750kmof RN4;
country; and increase access
to infrastructure services in Increase percentage o f fiscal revenues
the provinces of Orientale,   collected inthe reunified provinces;
Maniema, Nord Kivu, Sud                                                 To assess impact o f works on,
Kivu, Nord Equateur, Nord Increased access to water supply in access to potable water supply,
Katanga,      Nord     Kasai  areas benefiting from water services;     schools, health centers and roads
Oriental                                                                services.
                              Increased access to health facilities in
                              selected communities (urban centers);

                              Increased access to improved school
                              facilities inselected communities;

                              Reduction o f the percentage o f learning
                              time loss due to bad          weather at
                              selected schools;

                              Number o f communities successfilly
                              implementing projects in the isolated
                              rural areas.
IntermediateResults           Results      Indicators      for    Each Use of Outcome Monitoring
 One per Component            Component
Component1:                   The budget has been fully disbursed       Audit ofpayments
 Balance o fpayments
 support component for
 critical imports
 Component 2:                 Legal     review     o f   the    logging Annual project report
 Institutional Strengthening  concessions completed;
                              New procurement code adopted by the
                              government;
                              PRSP adopted by the Government.
 Component 3                  Average speed o f 25 km/hour on the       On site survey
 Infrastructure               rehabilitated sections o f RN2 and RN4
 Rehabilitation component     rehabilitated
 Component4                   At least 80% o f the rehabilitated urban  Annual project report
 Urban Rehabilitation         infrastructure are operational

 Component5:                  At least 500 communities in eligible      Annual project report
 Community Empowerment        areas have benefited from Micro-
                              grants.




                                                    12

                            Arrangements for results monitoring


                                                         Data Collect o and Reporting
Outcome Indicators          Baseline                     Frequency    Data Collection   Responsibility
                                                         and          Instruments       for Data
                                                         Reports                        Collection
Numbero fpeople inthe       None        6,000,000 people Annual       Survey o f served UCOP
previously isolated                                                   areas
provinces having access to
2 17kmof rehabilitated
sections of RN2 and 750
kmo fRN4
Percentage increase o f     Level of    50%              Annual       Survey         of UCOP
fiscal revenues collected   revenues in                               supported
from the financial          2003                                      institutions
institutions o f the
reunified urovinces
Percentage ofpopulation     39%         60%              Annual       On site survey    UCOP
benefiting from water
supplyrehabilitation
works inthe targeted cities
Percentage o fnumber o f    50%         70%              Annual       Onsite survey     UCOP
people using the health
centers rehabilitated
Reductioninthe              30%         0%               Annual       On site survey    UCOP
percentage o f learning
time loss due to bad
weather inthe schools
rehabilitated
Number communities          500         500              Annual       On site survey    UCOP
supported inthe isolated
rural areas
Results Indicatorsfor       Baseline    At end of        Frequency    Data Collection            ility
EachComponent                           component        and          Instruments
                                        Implementation Reports
Component 1:
Balance ofpayments
support component for
critical imports.
Amount o fbudget            US$50       llS950 million   Annual       Audit o f         Contracted
disbursed to support        million                                   payments          Auditor
critical imports
Component 2:
Institutional Strengthening
Numberof institutions       5           5                Annual                         UCOP
supported by the project
Number of concessions       156         156              Annual                         UCOP
recalled
Component3
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation component
Number o f kms o froads in 750          750 km           Annual       On site survev    UCOP



                                            13

RN4
Number o f kms of roads in 217      217
RN2
Umber ofkmsofroads in        9      9                    On site survey    UCOP
RN1                                           I
 Component4
Urban Rehabilitation
Increase innumber of         43                 Annual   On site survey    UCOP
schools rehabilitated
Increase o f number of       18                 Annual   On site survey    UCOP
health centers rehabilitated
Number of kilometers o f     0      41 km     I Annual   On site survey    UCOP
newlyhehabilitated water
supplynetwork
 Component5:
 community
 Empowerment

Number o f sub-projects      500    500        Annual    Annual    project UCOP
financed and successfully                                report
completed




                                        14

                                          Restructuring of the
                DRCEmergency Economic & SocialReunification Support Project
                              ANNEX3: SUMMARYOFPROPOSEDCHANGES

                What has changed                                          Comments
1.Development Objective has beenreformulated        The last part o f the original PDO "through: (a)
to make it more specific.                           balance o fpayment support; (b) institutional
                                                    strengthening o f entities and governance systems
                                                    throughout its territory; (c) infrastructure and urban
                                                    rehabilitation; and (d) community empowerment."
                                                    This i s not the PDObut a means o f achieving the
                                                    PDO (specifically the components o fthe project).
                                                    So it was dropped out the project. The reformulated
                                                    PDO gives a definition o fthe actual impact
                                                    expected (the changes induced by the project)
                                                    rather than the means.
2. The indicator relating tojob creation            This indicator objective is achieved through the
opportunities has been cancelled.                   works carried out and micro credits granted to the
                                                    communities.
3. The indicator relating to the increase inand in The performance indicators achieved t h the
the quality o fbasic services has beenbetter        different basic social services can be measured.
specified through the funded activities (water,
education, health, roads).

4. The indicator relating to the creation o fnew    The forest concessions sub-component was
forest concessions has been cancelled               cancelled.
5. The number o f kilometers o f roads to be        Due to cost overruns the number o f kilometers o f
rehabilitated was reduced.                          roads to be rehabilitated was reduced from 1,779 to
                                                    976 km.
6. The indicator relating to the reunification and  Duringthe conflicts, financial services inthe
decentralization o f key institutions was better    eastern region were not operational and revenues
specified through the functioning o f key services  were not collected by the public fiscal services. The
ineasternregionsthrough financial institutions.     indicator relating to the increase inrevenues proves
                                                    that these services are functioning and have also
                                                    been effective inreunifying the country.
7. Safeguards (social and environmental) aspects    The social safeguards provisions have not changed.
have not changed.
8. Fiduciary aspects have not changed, but a        Annex 4 provides a summary o f the original project
reallocation is proposed.                           costs versus the proposedproject costs by category.
9. Closing date was scheduled for September 30,     An eighteen-monthextension is proposed. The
2008.                                               new closing date i s September 30, 2010.




                                                  15

                                       Restructuring of the
               DRCEmergencyEconomic & SocialReunification Support Project
            ANNEX4: REVISEDTABLE EXPENDITURES
                                      OF                  CATEGORIES OF THE PROJECT

      Category                  Current      Current       Proposed   Proposed     % o f Expenditure
                                Credit       Grant         Credit     Grant        to be Financed
                                Allocated    Allocated     Amount     Amount
                                SDR      '   SDR           SDR        SDR
1.    Eligible imports required 35,700,000                 35,700,000              100%of foreign
      for Part A of the Project                                                    expenditures
      as specified inthe Annex
      to this Schedule
2.    Works                                    71,700,000             86,019,000   100%

3.    Goods                                      8,000,000              2,464,000  100%

4.    Consultants' services and                 18,400,000            17,070,000   100%
      audits

5.    Micro-Grants for:                                                            100%o f amounts
                                                                                   disbursed
      (a) Subprojects under                     5,400,000               1,402,000
      Part D o f the Project
      (b) Subprojects under                                             5,553,000
      Part E o f the Proiect                I   3,600,000
6.    Operating Costs                                                  4,492,000   100%

                                           I
7.    Unallocated                          I    6,300,000                       O 1
Total                           35,700,000    117,000,000  35,700,000
                                                                      117,000,000 I




                                                16

                                        Restructuringof the
          DRCEmergencyEconomic& SocialReunificationSupport Project




        Components                       AppraisalEstimate             ActuaVLatestEstimate

                                            (US$ million)                   (US$ million)

Balance ofpayments                           50,000,000                      52,700,000
support

Institutional Strengthening                  15,000,000                      17,300,000

InfrastructureRehabilitation                 90,000,000                      120,500,000

UrbanRehabilitation                          30,000,000                      32.5,00,000

 Community Empowerment                       10,000,0003                     12,900,000


 Operating Costs                              5,000,000                       7,400,000



 Unallocated                                 14,000,0004                           -

 Total                                       214,000,000                     243,000,000




 Ths amount was not accurately converted to SDR equivalent inthe DCA. The amount inthe DCA is
overstated.
 Ths figure is not accurately converted to SDR equivalent inthe DCA. The amount inthe DCA is
understated.


                                                  17

                                           Restructuringof the
              DRCEmergency Economic & SocialReunification Support Project
                 ANNEX6: RESULTSFRAMEWORKRESTRUCTUREDPROJECTOF

PDO                                                                              Status of implementation
Assist the Borrower in its efforts to                                             1,900,000 people inRN4
economically and socially reunify isolated provinces         having access to    4,500,000 people inRN2
the Eastern provinces to the rest o f 217km o f rehabilitated sections o f RN2
the country; and increase access to   and 750 o f RN4;
infrastructure  services   in the
provinces o f Orientale, Maniema,     Percentage increase o f fiscal revenues     68%
Nord    Kim, Sud      Kim, Nord collected inthe reunifiedprovinces;
Equateur,    Nord Katanga,     Nord
Kasai Oriental                        Increased access to water supply in areas   Projects not yet implemented
                                      benefiting from water services;

                                      Increased access to health facilities in 60%
                                      selected communities (urban centers);

                                      Increased access to improved school         30%
                                      facilities inselected communities;

                                      Reduction o f the percentage o f learning   30%
                                      time lost due to bad weather at selected
                                      schools;

                                      Number o f communities         successfully 1,030
                                      implementing projects in the isolated
                                      rural areas.
IntermediateResults                   Results      Indicators      for     Each Statusof implementation
 One per Component                    Component
Component 1:                          The budget has been fully disbursed.        The amount disbursed for BOP
 Balance o f payments support                                                     support is equivalent to US$52.7
 component for critical imports.                                                  million compared to US$50
                                                                                  million anticipated because o f
                                                                                  changes inthe SDFUUS$ rate
 Component 2: Institutional           Legal review o f the logging concessions   The process is ongoing
 Strengthening                        completed;
                                      New procurement code adopted by the The draft code is submittedto
                                      government;                                 the parliament for adoption.
                                      PRSP adopted by the Government.
 Component 3                          Average speed o f 25 W h o u r on the      7 0 W h
 Infrastructure       Rehabilitation  rehabilitated sections o f RN2 and RN4
 component                            rehabilitated
 Component 4                          At least 80% o fthe rehabilitated urban     60%
 UrbanRehabilitation                  infrastructure are operational

 Component 5:                         At least 500 communities ineligible areas   1,030      communities      have
 Community Empowerment                have benefited from Micro-grants.           benefited from Micro-grants.




                                                       18

