FILE COPy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
RETURN  TO                      Report No. 28a-MA
i0   GENTER ROOM G8.1
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PRQJECT
MALAYSIA
February 26, 1973
Asia Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY
Currency unit = Malaysian dollar (M$)
US$1 = M$ 2.54 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)    =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile         =  1,601 kilometer (km)
1 square mile  -  640 ac                =  259 ha
1 ton          =  2,240 pounds (lb)    =  1,093 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
drc    = dry.rubber content
ffb    3  'fresh fruit bunches
FELDA  -  Federal Land Development Authority
MAC    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
tARA   =  Malaysian Economic Development Authority
MARDI  = Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute
PWD    = Public Works Department
RIRB   =  Rubber Industrial Replanting Board
RRIM   =  Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
SJSB   =  Jengka Timber Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
1/  as of February 13.  Previous rate US$1 = II$ 2.82.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  ...............................................    i i
I.   DiTRODUCTION  ........ ............. .....................
II.   BACKGROUND       ................................         2
A.   General     .................................        2
B.    Rubber  and  Oil  Palms   .............................  3
C..  Land Development and Settlement ..............       4
D.,  The Federal Land Development Authority ...........   5
E.,  The Jengka Triangle Program ...............          5
III.  TIIE PROJECT ...............................   6
A.   The Project Area ................................    6
B.  Project Description ..............................    7
C.  The Planting Program .............................    7
D.   Infrastructure Development .................         8
E.  Processing Facilities and Transport ..............    9
F.   Crop Diversification Trials    .      .10
G.  Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute.                            10
H. Ecology   . .11
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ..11
A. Project Costs          ..1 11
B. Proposed Financing    .             .13
C.  Procurement and Disbursement    .       .14
D. Accounts and Audit    .              .15
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .15
A. FELDA .15
B. Jengka Regional Office .16
C. Settlement Procedures .17
D. Community Services .18
This report is based upon the findings and recommendations of an appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. J. Andreu and A. Cole, and Mr. J. Leach (con-
sultant).



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .... .......   18
A.  Yields and Production ............................   18
B.  Marketing and Prices .............................   19
C.  Financial  Results   ................................  19
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   20
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................   21
ANNEXES
1.  Progress of Loans MA-434, 500 and 673
2.  Agricultural Development of Jengka Settlement Projects 1 and 2
3.  Infrastructure Development of Jengka Settlement Projects 1 and 2
4.  FELDA
5.  The Jengka Triangle Program
6.  Agricultural Development
7.  Construction Schedules
Appendix 1: Roads
Appendix 2: Infrastructure Development
8.  Study on Agricultural Research and Experimentation
Appendix 1: Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute
Appendix 2: Terms of Reference for Study of MARDI
9.  Project Costs
10.  IBRD Financing
Projected IBRD Disbursement Schedule
11.  Project Organization and Management
12.  Oil Palm Settler's Legal Position
13.  Rubber Settler's Legal Position
14.  Oil Palm Yield Estimates
15.  Rubber Yield Estimates
16.  Mfarket Prospects for Palm Oil and Palm Kernels
17.  Natural Rubber:  Trends and Outlook



- 3 -
18.   Oil Palm Settler's Financial Condition
Table 1: Per Acre Development Costs
Table 2: Settler's Wages and Subsistence Credits
Table 3: Ffb Sales Before Loan Repayment
Table 4: Loan Account of a Typical Settler
Table 5: Typical Farm Budget for Ten Acres
19.   Rubber Settler's Financial Condition
Table 1:  Per Acre Development Costs
Table 2: Settler's Wages and Subsistence Credits
Table 3: Loan Account of a Typical Settler
Table 4: Typical Farm Budget for Ten Acres
20.   Project Sources and Applications of Funds
21.   Consolidated Government Sources and Applications of Funds
22.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1: Oil Palm Schemes
Table 2: Rubber Schemes
MAP
.



S '                                                                                                                                                             a 



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The proposed project comprises the third and final stage for the
development of the Jengka Triangle, an area of the sparsely populated and
largely undeveloped geographical center of West Malaysia.  Consultants
prepared the program in 1965-68, and it includes establishing logging and
timber processing facilities to exploit forest resources; settling about
10,000 families on individually owned holdings totalling some 100,000 acres
of oil palms and rubber; expanding palm oil and rubber processing capacity;
and providing infrastructure. The first two Jengka development stages
comprising three separate projects have been partly financed by the Bank.
The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA), a Government agency, which
has the main responsibility for land development and settlement in Malaysia,
is responsible for implementing the program.
ii.       The opening up and settlement of new land is a major focus of
agricultural development policy in Malaysia. The proposed project consists
of: (a) clearing forests, developing some 21,000 acres of oil palms and
about 17,000 acres of rubber, as well as 2,000 acres for commercial trials
of cocoa production; (b) settling about 4,000 families; (c) providing
transport and social infrastructure; (d) building a palm oil mill; and
(e) making a study of Malaysia's agricultural research requirements. The
project's objectives would be to increase production of oil palm and natural
rubber, provide ownership of economically viable individual holdings and
adequate living standards to some 4,000 landless or poor smallholder families,
reduce regionial and rural/urban income disparities, and investigate new cash
crops.
iii.      This would be the sixth agricultural project financed by the Bank
in Malaysia. The two previous Jengka Land Settlement projects, for which
the Bank approved loans in 1968 and 1970 (Loans 533-MA and 672-MA), are prog-
ressing well. The implementation of the Jengka Forestry Project (Loan 673-MA,
1970) was deJLayed because of management difficulties. Project performance,
however, is improving as a result of experience gained and better management.
Civil works on the Muda (Loan 434-MA, 1966) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA, 1967)
rice irrigation projects are on schedule.
iv.       Taking account of the US$ devaluation, project costs are estimated
at US$43.3 million excluding capitalized interest and commitment charges on
the Bank loan during development of US$6.5 million. Principal components
are: agricultural development, US$16.7 million; settlers' housing, US$2.6
million; processing facilities, US$3.2 million; management, US$4.8 million;
infrastructure, US$6.4 million; research study, US$0.1 million; and contin-
gencies, US$8.8 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated to be
US$8.3 million or 19% of project costs. A Bank loan of US$25.0 million to
finance 50% of project costs would be made to Government. It would finance
the foreign exchange component, US$10.2 million or 29% of the local cost, and



- ii -
capitalized Bank loan interest and other financing charges during the first
seven years (USS6.5 million). Government would contribute the balance of
long-term financing (US$24.8 million) as loans to FELDA (US$11.2 million);
as grants to FELDA (US$5.6 million); and as grants to other Government agen-
cies (US$8.0 million). Goods and services valued at about US$17.7 million
would be procured through international competitive bidding. It is expected,
however, that local contractors and suppliers will, as in the past, be the
successful bidders for the erection of housing, offices, and the oil palm
mill, for land development, and for the supply of mill machinery, vehicles,
equipment and fertilizer.
v.        The project embodies an approach to land settlement which has
proven very successful under Malaysian conditions. Other approaches, involv-
ing lower costs per family settled, have been tried but have failed due to
lack of incentives to settlers and inadequate infrastructure. The economic
rate of return is estimated at 15.5%, the return of the oil palm component is
17.5% and of the rubber component 12.4%. Reductions by 10% of the forecasts
in world market prices for oil palm and rubber would reduce the rates of
return by 2% points. The estimates of other important variables, which
affect the return, such as costs, timing of investments, benefits and yields
are regarded as highly reliable as they are based on the extensive experience
of FELDA on similar projects in Jengka and elsewhere in Malaysia. Project
palm oil production would peak at about 49,000 tons by 1985. Rubber produc-
tion would increase to about 30 million pounds by 1992 and stabilize at that
level for 12 to 15 years. Palm oil and rubber would be exported.
vi.       In addition to 4,000 settler families, about 3,000 mill and other
project workers would have employment, at annual family incomes of US$450
from the early years of the project. About 4,000 contract workers would also
be employed during development. The project would provide adequate incentives
to settlers. It would provide annual net family incomes averaging US$1,000
for the 27-year period from when the settler growing oil palm enters a scheme
to when the oil palm requires rep2acement. Net average incomes of the settler
family growing rubber for a similar period would be about US$900. These
incomes are between three and four times higher than the estimated family
incomes that would be earned by the majority of Malaysian rubber and paddy
smallholders, or the urban underemployed, which would be the relevant alter-
natives for most project settlers.
vii.      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan to Government of
US$25.0 million, to be disbursed through 1973-80 and repayable over 23 years,
including 8 years of grace on principal repayments.



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has asked the Bank to help finance the
third and final stage of the Jengka Triangle Settlement Program. This
Program aims to establish 10,000 small farmers growing a total of about
100,000 acres of oil palm and rubber on individually owned holdings, and to
provide them with facilities to process their rubber and oil palm products,
and with necessary social services.
1.02      The Settlement Program is being implemented in three stages.  Stages
1 and 2 were partly financed by Bank loans totalling US$27 million (Loans
533- and 672-MA of 1968 and 1970). Stage 3, which is the proposed project,
would develop 4,000 small family-owned farms growing about 21,000 acres of
oil palm and 17,000 acres of rubber.
1.03      The feasibility study for the Program was undertaken by the
consulting firms of Tippets, Abbett, McCarthy and Stratton (U.S.A.) and
Hunting Technical Services (U.K.) in 1965-1968. The study was partly
financed by a Bank technical assistance grant. The Jengka Program is being
implemented by the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA), a well-
managed Government agency.
1.04      The Bank has made five loans for agricultural development in
Malaysia. The!se include, in addition to the two for Jengka Land Settlement,
the Muda and Kemubu Rice Irrigation Projects in 1965 and 1967 for US$45
million and US$10 million, and the Jengka Forestry Project in 1970 for
US$8.5 million.
1.05      The Muda irrigation project is progressing satisfactorily.  Engineer-
ing works have been finished at Muda and are on schedule at Kemubu. Agri-
cultural development in Kemubu has been delayed somewhat, however, due to
the inexperience of farmers with off-season cropping. The first two Jengka
settlement projects are progressing satisfactorily.
1.06      The Jengka forestry project has been beset by many difficulties
from its inception. These have included lower than estimated timber
extraction rates; bad relations between the managing agents and the owners
of the project's industrial facilities; floods; lower than expected lumber
export prices; and lack of coordination between production and marketing.
Most of these problems have been due to the complexity of the project and to
the lack of previous experience with large, integrated forestry operations in
Malaysia. Corrective measures have been taken and the situation is improving.
More complete information on the above projects is given in Annexes 1, 2
and 3.
1.07      This report is based upon the findings of a Bank mission which
visited Malaysia in May 1972, whose members were Messrs. Andreu and Cole
(Bank), and Leach (Consultant).



- 2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Malaysia's climate is typical of the humid tropics, with uniformly
warm to hot temperatures, abundant rainfall, high humidity and plentiful
sunlight. Mean monthly temperatures vary from 77 to 83°F. Rainfall
occurs throughout the year, with two relatively dry periods from May through
July and during December and January. Mean annual rainfall averages about
90 inches and is heaviest in East Malaysia and on the east coast of West
Malaysia. Less than one-fourth of the total area of West Malaysia, and only
about 3% of the total area of East Malaysia are under cultivation, the balance
being mostly under tropical rain forest.
2.02      Population in 1971 was estimated at 11.3 million, growing at about
2.5% a year. Approximately 85% of the population is concentrated in West
1":aLlaysia, where the average population density reaches about 180 persons per
scquare mile, and is highest on the west coast and the south (Map).
2.03      GDP has been growing at an annual average of 5.6% since 1965 and
airounted to US$3.1 billion in 1971. GDP per capita was about US$380 in
West Malaysia in 1970 but only US$280 in the rural areas, and for small-scale
rice and rubber growers was even less at US$180. Agriculture contributed
31i% of GDP, 60% of employment and 60% of exports in 1971.  Main exports were:
rubber, US$500 million; tin, US$300 million; timber, US$270 million; and
p-.lrn oil, US$133 million.  The importance of the latter is projected to grow
slLbstantially during the next decade as extensive new plantings come into
pi:oduction. Malaysia has become, or will become shortly, self-sufficient in
rice, sugar, poultry and pork, but depends heavily on imports for most other
:-?odstuffs and fiber requirements.
J.04      Agriculture has a vital role to play in Malaysia's economic and
social development. As the major productive sector, its expansion is
essential for economic growth and continuing increases in agricultural exports
are necessary, to provide increased incomes to the rural population (most
of whom are Malays, as opposed to people of Chinese and Indian origin). The
necessary productivity increases for rubber and oil palm implicit in these
objectives tend to intensify rural unemployment, and on their own would not
entsure a satisfactory growth in output over the next decade.  Thus an
accelerated program of land development is needed, offering the opportunity
to create new jobs at a rate that would compensate for redundancy due to
increased productivity. Accordingly, the principal agricultural policy objec-
tives of the Government include: (a) an increase in production and exports
of rubber and oil palm through improved stock, replanting, and planting up
nLew areas, and (b) an increase in rural incomes through smallholder develop-
nent and land settlement programs. The proposed project would make a direct
contribution to both of these objectives.



- 3 -
B. Rubber and Oil Palms
2.05      Rubber has been planted on a large scale in Malaysia since the
beginning of the century. Total planted area was 4.4 million acres in 1971,
of which about two-thirds was in smallholdings.  More than 40% of the rural
population are engaged in rubber production.  In 1971 production was 1.3
million tons of which 50% was produced by smallholders; it is expected to
increase to 1.5 million tons by 1975. Exports represented about 45% of world
consumption of natural rubber.
2.06      World consumption of rubber grew at 6.3% a year between 1950 and
1970, but as world production of natural rubber increased only 2.6% per
year during that period (due mainly to a large drop in production in
Indonesia), prices increased considerably. This encouraged heavy investment
in synthetic rubber production facilities, and synthetics increased their
share of the world rubber market from 38% in 1955 to about 60% in 1970.
2.07      More recently prices of natural rubber have declined, mainly due
to the production of new and cheaper synthetics with natural rubber
characteristics. Malaysia has responded to this challenge by: (a) in-
creasing productivity through the use of higher yielding plant material and
new and more effective yield stimulants; (b) reducing costs with new and
less frequent tapping techniques; (c) increasing efficiency through land
consolidation and extension work among smallholders; and (d) increasing
the acceptability of Malaysian rubber on export markets by introducing
higher and more uniform quality standards. These developments have not only
increased Malaysia's comparative advantage in natural rubber production,
but have also maintained reasonable levels of profitability for producers
despite lower world market prices. Government is justified, therefore, in
continuing to expand the area under new and replanted rubber not only
because world market demand for natural rubber is expected to continue
growing at 6-7% a year, but also because at the present time there are no
crops that can be produced on a large scale, other than oil palm.
2.08      The area under oil palms in Malaysia has more than doubled in the
last ten years; it amounted to about 750,000 acres in 1971 and is expected
to increase to 1.1 million acres by 1975. Exports of palm oil are estimated
to rise to nearly 1.3 million tons by 1975 or 70% of expected world trade.
The production increase is taking place almost exclusively on private
estates and in FELDA-sponsored smallholder schemes. Government correctly
regards oil palms as the only proven crop that can be expanded on a large
scale. Malaysia is probably the most competitive palm oil producer on the
world market, and is defending this position by substantial investments in
research by both the private and public sectors.
2.09      Despite its success in increasing efficiency of the rubber industry
and in introducing large-scale production of palm oil, Malaysia should
further diversify its agricultural production if rural incomes are to increase
in the long term, and to reduce the risk from heavy reliance on two crops.
Government has recently created the Malaysian Agricultural Research and



Development Institute (MARDI) to coordinate all agricultural research
activities in the country. MARDI will carry out research and experimentation
on new crops such as maize, sorghum and cocoa and on beef and dairy to
explore the possibility of their future production on a commercial scale.
FELDA is cooperating in this endeavor.
C. Land Development and Settlement
2.10      Over the past decade the initiative for land development has
passed from the private estate to the public sector. Since the early 1960's,
Government has given high priority to land development and settlement, to
provide economically viable units to families farming at close to subsistence
levels and to help urban unemployment, now estimated at about 12% of the
labor force. The major programs have been carried out by the Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA), and by State Governments, which retain
responsibility for land affairs. At present, some 9-10 million acres suit-
able for agriculture remain undeveloped in West Malaysia, out of a total land
area of about 33 million.
2.11      In recent years, the Federal and State Governments have prepared
-egional land development plans. The first, the Jengka Triangle (paras 2.16
- 2.19), was prepared with Bank assistance. Since then, witn help mainly
from the United Kingdom, Government has prepared plans for regional develop-
ment of Southeast Johore, involving about 400,000 acres, and in which the
Bank has been asked to participate. Consultants are preparing a master plan
for Southeast Pahang.
2.12      Settlement standards have varied widely. Generally they have been
poor when organized by the States, which have been unable to provide adequate
management, support services and finance. FELDA projects have generally been
well organized and managed. The three major constraints to land development,
however, continue to be the shortage of managerial and technical personnel
and the lack of land clearing capacity.
2.13      The average size of smallholding is currently around 3 acres,
although there is a wide diversity between regions, due to differences in
local land availability, population pressure, and other factors. A 3 acre
rubber smallholding is too small to be viable with present and estimated
future rubber prices. Under the Jengka programs, the average size is 10
acres, which has proved viable for both rubber and oil palm, and which is
capable of being managed by a single family. With new tapping and collecting
techniques, a family could manage up to 15 acres of rubber, and such areas
are being considered for future schemes. However, for the present the current
10 acre holdings represent a considerable advance over the average holding of
3 acres, and settlers on these programs will be better off than the average
existing smallholder once their holdings came into bearing. The question of
land settlement to enable existing smallholdings to be replanted and reallocated
into viable units remains one of urgency. Government is actively considering
projects which would help increase the productivity of smallholders agriculture
through credit and technical assistance.



2.14      The Second Malaysia Plan, 1971-75, calls for development and settle-
ment of about 750,000 acres, mostly for oil palm and rubber, of which the
public sector would develop 600,300 acres mostly through FELDA. This is
feasible as regards availability of land. Managerial and institutional
constraints are likely to prove the limiting factors.
D. Federal Land Development Authority
2.15      FELDA was created in 1956 to carry out land development and settle-
ment projects. It began operating on a large scale in 1961. By 1971 it had
developed about 360,000 acres and settled some 23,000 families. Its program
under the Second Malaysia Plan is about 100,000 acres a year. About 60,000
acres were settled in 1972. FELDA's costs and standards of agricultural
operations equal those of efficient commercial estate companies. However, it
suffers the administrative and organizational problems of fast growing
institutions. Consultants have recently made recommendations for a reorgani-
zation of its structure, operating procedures and control systems. FELDA
has accepted these recommendation and is currently implementing them (see
Chapter V and Annex 4).
E. The Jengka Triangle Program
2.16      The Jengka Triangle is in the State of Pahang in the center of
West Malaysia (Map). The program (Annex 5) was prepared by consultants in
1965-1968. Since then the Bank has financed part of the costs of the First
and Second Phases of the Program; a third and final phase of development
remains.
2.17      The First and Second Phase Projects were started in 1968 and 1970
respectively and together involve the clearing of forest, the planting of
41,000 acres of oil palms and 18,000 acres of rubber and the settlement of
6,000 families. The First Project was delayed because there were not enough
private contractors available for the land clearing and planting work and
also because of unsatisfactory performance by contractors. Since then these
problems have been overcome and today delays of about 18 months have been
reduced to an average of six months in agricultural development under the
First Project, and practically none in the Second Project (Annex 2).
2.18      Infrastructure development in the First Project was also delayed;
one of the reasons was the lack of coordination between FELDA's Jengka Division
Office with the Public Works Department (PWD).  Since then conditions have
improved substantially and today there is only a one-year delay in infra-
structure development and settlement in the First Project, and only an
average six-month delay in the Second Project (Annex 3).
2.19      Unit costs of the First and Second phase projects have generally
been in line with estimates. Lower than forecast disbursements of the two
Bank loans reflect the delays in agricultural and infrastructure development.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
Physical Characteristics
3.01      The project area comprises the southwest section of the Jengka
Triangle (Map) and is sit:uated about 120 miles northeast of Kuala Lumpur.
Iopography is undulating and soils vary widely necessitating detailed
surveys to ensure proper crop selection. The area is covered by tropical
rain forest. Rainfall averages 90 inches a year and is well distributed.
T'emperatures range between 77 and 83°F. Physical conditions are well suited
to both oil palm and rubber.
Infrastructure
3.02      The area is well served by an asphalted highway connecting Port
IuaLntan, Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang, which passes along its southern
1border, and which in turn connects with an asphalted primary road to
i3ingapore.  These roads are well maintained.  A large part of the internal
Jengka area road system has been developed under the First and Second
:Projects and would be completed under the proposed Third Project. The
:a-ational railway company plans to build a spur to Jengka which would provide
, more direct and possibly cheaper means of transportation to Port Klang
both for rubber and palm oil.  Port Klang facilities are adequate at present,
Ibuit eventually will have to be expanded to accommodate expected increases in
ipaLm produce and rubber exports from central and west coast areas. Jengka
Ls linked with the national radio-telephone network. Water supplies are
s;ufficient, and are provided mainly from the Pahang river just south of
t:he project area.
Land Tenure
3.03      Project area land is owned by the State of Pahang but has been
allocated to FELDA for development. Ownership will be transferred eventually
to settlers (para 5.08). The few people who live in the area, apart from
Jengka settlers, are mostly small rubber planters who have occupancy rights
or who have been granted titles by the state. These rights will be respected.
Labor and Social Services
3.04      The labor force needed for land clearing, planting and initial
upkeep of settlement areas is provided by private contractors, and comes
mostly from other States, since the state of Pahang is sparsely populated.
Settlers, also mostly from other State!, provide the labor needed for
maintenance of their holdings after initial development has taken place
(paras 5.08-5.09). No problems are envisaged in finding labor for development
and production as an increasing number of contractors bid for land development
work at Jengka each year and FELDA has more than 14,000 approved settler
applications. The latter are more than FELDA can accommodate and new
applications are not being accepted.



3.05      Housing for staff and settlers, office accommodation and a shop
for each village are provided by FELDA and built by private contractors
(para 3.12). Villages are provided with schools and medical dispensaries
which are built and staffed by appropriate government departments. Medical
cases are treated at the Temerloh hospital, 50 miles by road from the
project area.
B.  Project Description
3.06      The project comprises the third and last stage of establishing
62,000 acres of oil palms and 35,000 acres of rubber in the Jengka Triangle
and the settlement of 10,000 families. The project would involve clearing
about 44,000 acres of land and planting about 21,000 acres of oil palm,
17,000 acres of rubber, and 2,000 acres of cocoa; settling about 4,000 families;
constructing a palm oil mill with an ultimate capacity of 55 tons ffb per
hour; constructing roads, staff and settler housing, stores, offices and
workshops and providing power, water, health and education facilities. In
addition it would include a study of the Malaysia Agricultural Research and
Development Inistitute (MARDI) by consultants to determine Malaysia's research
priorities, a research program, and assist in the identification and prepara-
tion of research projects for outside financing. The project would be carried
out during the period 1972 to 1981. The proposed Bank loan would partly
finance development costs from 1972 through 1979 and would be disbursed
1973-1980 (para 4.04). Apart from the MARDI study, it would be managed by
FELDA, on behalf of Government.
3.07      As in the first and second Jengka projects each settler would be
provided with 10 acres of planted oil palm or rubber, a house, a house lot
of one-fourth of an acre and a piped water outlet for every six houses. The
project would comprise schemes 15 through 23 (schemes 1 through 14 are being
developed under the first two Jengka projects). Each scheme would have its own
village accommodating an average 430 settlers families as well as FELDA and
other Government staff. Each village would contain FELDA offices, stores and
workshops; and Government would provide postal, telephone, educational and
health services.
C. The Planting Program
3.08      Marketable timber would be extracted prior to land clearing, and
the land would be surveyed and cleared one year in advance of planting. The
clearing and planting schedule is given at Annex 6 and is summarized below:



- 8 -
Land Cleared and Planted
(acres)
1972     1373     1974      1975    1976    Total
:Forest Clearing        10,900   14,650   18,650       -       -     44,200
oi:L Palm
Planting                 -      2,600   12,800    5,500      450   21,350
Rubber Planting           -       3,900      400   11,650   1,300   17,250
Cocoa Planting             -      2,000                               2,000
Total Area
Planted                                                            40,600
More land would be cleared than planted, to allow for roads, villages, oil
palm mill and latex collection center sites, and other installations.
3.09      The marketable timber would be extracted and processed by Jengka
Timber Company (SJSB), a subsidiary of the Malaysian Economic Development
Authority (MARA). SJSB was formed and its processing complex built under
the Second Jengka Project. Land clearing, planting of oil palms and rubber
and initial upkeep for up to one year after planting would be carried out
by private contractors, using mostly hand labor. The contracts would be
supervised by FELDA staff. Rubber and oil palm planting material would be
produced in FELDA nurseries, and cover crop seed would be supplied by con-
tractors. No problems are expected in obtaining adequate supplies of proven
planting material.
3.10      Typically, land clearing would take place during the months of
October, November and December, with cover crop planting starting around
April of the following year and oil palm and rubber plantings being made
through the following December. The initial upkeep of the plantings, mainly
weeding, slashing and replacing dead or weak stumps and seedlings, would be
undertaken by contractors for a minimum of three months and a maximum of
one year after planting. The period would depend on the speed of settlement.
Settlers after their arrival would continue the upkeep under FELDA super-
vision.
D. Infrastructure Development
3.11      Roads  -  Roads would be built and maintained by the regional
branch of FWD to national road standards; these are considered adequate.
A 16 mile north-south primary road would be constructed. This would be
built in stages, according to development needs, during the period 1973
through 1976. Secondary roads would comprise the access roads to schemes



- 9 -
and villages. Some 80 miles of access roads would be built under the
project. The location of project roads is shown in the Map and a schedule
of road construction is at Annex 7.
3.12      Housing, Water Supply and Electricity  -  Settlers would arrive
on the schemes 6-9 months after planting. Prior to their arrival village
sites would be cleared and housing, offices, shops, workshops and other
structures would be built by contractors employed by FELDA. Settlers'
houses would be wooden structures and would accommodate on average five-
member families.  The Federal Government would provide a treated water
supply to each village and construct and staff educational, health, postal,
telephone and other communal facilities. The provision of these facilities
is an essential part of this settlement project, since it would influence
greatly settlers' decision to remain permanently in the area. Experience
in other settlement schemes in Malaysia shows that when infrastructure
is lacking, a large proportion of settlers leave. A primary school would
be provided for each 150 children and on average 6 primary schools would be
built for each village and a secondary school for each two villages, the
latter to cater for about 200 children. A dispensary would be built in each
village and would be staffed by two trained nurses. Each dispensary would
be supplied with medicines to prevent and control epidemics. Serious medical
cases would be treated at the Temerloh hospital as in the past. National
building standards would be followed in constructing these facilities and
infrastructure.
E. Processing Facilities and Transport
Palm Oil Mill
3.13      A pa:Lm oil mill would be constructed in the area of Scheme 19
(Map). It would start operations with an initial capacity of 27 tons ffb 1/
per hour in 1977, increasing to 55 tons ffb per hour by 1979. FELDA would
prepare plans and specifications, would supervise mill construction, and
would manage its operation. FELDA is capable of performing all these tasks
adequately. Collection and transport of ffb to the mill and of palm produce
to ports for export are at present handled by private contractors. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that FELDA would not
introduce any major changes in its present transportation arrangements in
respect of fresh fruit bunches produced in the project area without prior
consultation with the Bank.
1/   Fresh fruit bunches:  the fruit of the oil palm (which is a cluster
of oily nuts around a stem) prior to processing.



- 10 -
Lal:ex Collection Centers and Rubber Factory
3.14      Latex collection centers would not be required until 1981 when
thl.y would be built by FELDA.  FELDA also is building a block-rubber process-
ing factory to the west of Jengka which will have an initial daily capacity
of 20 tons dry rubber (drc) by 1973. This would be expanded subsequently
to 40 tons drc, and would proces3 the entire Triangle's rubber.  Transport                     *
to latex collection centers would be handled by settlers. Transport to and
from the processing factory would be arranged by private contractors.
F. Crop Diversification Trials
3.15      Since Malaysia and FELDA are heavily dependent on oil palm and
rubber (paras 2.05-2.09), the Government is anxious that FELDA should
inltroduce new crops on settlement schemes when possible.  FELDA began trials
cn cocoa and beef under Loan 672-MA at the Sungei Tekam Research Center.
Initial results show that cocoa production may be a suitable alternative to
ri.ibber and oil palm on future FELDA schemes. However, as little is known
of its commercial viability and problems of development on a large-scale
tz::Lder Malaysian conditions, FELDA would develop 2,000 acres of cocoa as
c,:immercial trials under this project.
C. Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI)
3.16      Most agricultural research in Malaysia has been on rubber and oil
palm, and by comparison research on alternative crops and livestock has been
s.mall. Government is anxious, however, to promote other crops to reduce the
risks for Malaysia's agricultural sector from its present dependence on
rubber and oil palm, and also to improve cash crops for farmers who do not
produce rubber and oil palms. Therefore it established MARDI as a Government
agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives with responsibility
for all Government's agricultural research activities except rubber (rubber
research will continue to be undertaken by the Rubber Research Institute
of Malaysia). MARDI was established in 1969, but it did not start operations
until 1971. Problems facing MARDI are (a) that its research programs, a
large proportion of which it took over from other agencies, are very ad hoc
:in nature and are not based on priorities; and (b) while well financed and
;taffed numerically, it lacks the research leaders needed to define and
direct programs aimed at solving the most acute of Malaysia's problems.
Ihe study proposed for this project would assist MARDI to determine research
1;:riorities, assess the value of existing research, prepare a work program,
and assist in the identification and preparation of research projects for
c:,utside financing. Draft terms of reference for the study are in Annex 8.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government shall employ
consultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.



- 11 -
H. Ecology
3.17      The project would have no long run impact on the ecology since it
would replace natural forest by tree crops. The planned land development
including measures for conserving land, improving drainage, and siting
villages would bring considerable benefits to the area; especially if com-
pared with the degradation of the ecology that would arise from uncontrolled
settlement.
IV. CO$T ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Project costs from 1972 through 1981, excluding capitalized interest
and other charges of M$ 16.5 million (US$6.5 million) on the proposed Bank
loan, are estimated at M$ 110.1 million (US$43.3 million) with a foreign
exchange component of M$ 20.8 million (US$8.3 million) or 19% of project
costs.
4.02      Detailed project cost estimates together with the interest and other
charges on the Bank Loan are at Annex 9 and are summarized below:



- 12 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(1972-1981)
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   FE
---(M$ million)---   --(US$ million)--  (M)
FELDA Expenditures
Agricultural Development    37.5    4.9    42.4    14.8   1.9    16.7   11
Cocoa Diversification
Trials                       1.7     -       1.7     0.7    -       0.7    -
Settlers Housing               6.5     -       6.5     2.6    -        2.6    -
Processing Facilities          4.1    4.1      8.2      1.6   1.6      3.2   50
Management                    10.6    1.8    12.4       4.1   0.7      4.8   14
Subtotal                60.4   10.8    71.2    23.8   4.2    28.0   15
Direct Government
Expenditures
Roads                          5.4    2.3      7.7      2.1   0.9      3.0   30
Water Supply                   3.1    1.4      4.5      1.2   0.6      1.8   30
Social Infrastructure          3.7    0.4      4.1      1.4   0.2      1.6   10
Studies                         -     0.2      0.2      -    0.1       0.1   80
Subtotal                12.2    4.3    16.5       4.7   1.8      6.5   25
Contingencies
Physical                       3.5    0.9      4.4      1.3   0.4      1.7   20
Price                         13.2    4.8    18.0       5.2   1.9      7.1   27
Subtotal                16.7    5.7    22.4       6.5   2.3      8.8   25
TOTAL PROJECT COST      89.3   20.8   110.1    35.0   8.3    43.3   19
Capitalized Interest and
Other Charges on
IBRD Loan                     -    16.5    16.5       -    6.5      6.5  100
TOTAL                   89.3   37.3   126.6    35.7  14.8    49.8   30
4.03      The above estimates expressed in US$ equivalent take account of
the recent devaluation of the US dollar. The estimates are based on recent
experience at Jengka and on other FELDA schemes. They include a physical
contingency of 5% of estimated costs and a price contingency compounded
annually of 4% on local costs and 6% on foreign costs. The impact of the
US dollar devaluation on project costs (expressed in Malaysian dollars) is
likely to be small and well within the price contingency provisions. The
cost of settlement per family would be about US$9,500.



- 13 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.04      It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$25.0 million (M$ 63.4 million)
to be disbursed from 1973 through 1980 be made to Government for 23 years
including a grace period of 8 years for repayments of principal. Interest
and other charges would be capitalized for the first seven years. These
terms are justified by the project cashflow at Annex 20, which is linked to
the repayment terms of settlers participating in the project (Annex 11).
As in the case of the two previous Jengka loans, the Bank loan would be made
to Government; FELDA is not financially self-sufficient and requires continu-
ing Government financial support to carry out its operations. The Bank loan
would finance capitalized commitment and interest charges on the loan amounting
to US$6.5 million (M$ 16.5 million) for seven years.
4.05      US$24.9 million of the Bank loan would be onlent by Government to
FELDA for Jengka Land Settlement and US$0.1 would be retained by Government
for the study of MARDI (para 3.16). The onlending terms to FELDA would be
the same as the Bank loan, which would finance 50% of total costs, including
29% of local currency costs. Remaining project costs, US$24.8 million would
be met by Government grants to FELDA totaling US$5.6 million for administration
and infrastructure costs; direct Government expenditures of US$8.0 million
including roads, water supply, schools and health centers; and by Government
loans to FELDA amounting to about US$11.2 million and covering 100% of the
costs of settlers' subsistence credits, 80% of the cost of planting material
and 30% of the costs of fertilizers, pesticides, vehicles and equipment
during the disbursement period and 100% thereafter. The Government loan,
which would be at the same terms as other Government loans to FELDA, would
be at 5-1/2%, repayable over 25 years, including 10 years of grace on
principal. No interest would be charged for the first four years. FELDA
loan terms to oil palm and rubber settlers are in Chapter V. About US$400,000
of the Bank loan would be used to cover retroactively expenditures such as
felling and land clearing incurred after September 1972 through June 1973.
Government would make available to FELDA, monthly and in advance, the invest-
ment funds and working capital required by the project. This would be on
the basis of the appraisal estimates as revised by FELDA, and as approved
by the Bank from time to time. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Government would continue to make these funds available monthly in
advance.
4.06      In summary, the project would be financed as follows:



- 14 -
PROJECT FINANCING
(M$ million)
IBRD  Z              GOVERNMENT                TOTAL
Loans  %   Grants  %   Total  %
FELDA Expenditures       46.7  52   28.9  32   14.1   16   43.0  48       89.7
E':.rect Government
Expenditures            0.2   1     -    -   20.2   99   20.2  99       20.4
Subtotal              46.9  43   28.9  26   34.3  31   63.2  57    110.1
Capitalized Interest
and other charges
on Bank Loan           16.5 100   28.9   -      -     -   63.2   -      16.5
TOTAL                63.4  50         23   34.3   27           50    126.6
TOTAL (US$ million) 25.0        11.2        13.6        24.8          49.8
C.  Procurement and Disbursement
4.07      Contracts with an estimated value of US$17.7 million (41% of project
costs less interest and charges) would be let under international competitive
bLdding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. These would include land clearing
.aid planting (US$10.4 million), and housing and building (US$3.4 million).
However, since sufficient experienced contractor capacity specializing in this
work is available in Malaysia, all of it is likely to be carried out by local
2ontractors, as in the first two Jengka projects. Palm oil mill machinery
and mill construction services (US$3.4 million) and vehicles and equipment
(US$0.5 million) would also be procured through international competitive
bidding. A range of goods required for the project is manufactured in Malay-
sia, particularly palm oil mill components and vehicles. In view of the
Importance of industrial production in Malaysia the Bank would agree that local
mianufacturers would be allowed a margin of protection of 15% or the customs
duty, whichever is less, again as in the first two Jengka projects. Pesticides
(US$0.2 million) are required in small quantities, at short notice, and
generally cannot be stored for long periods. Accordingly they would be
procured as required under local competitive bidding procedures. Fertilizer
procurement for the proposed project (US$2.6 million) would also be procured
through local competitive bidding, as in the previous two Jengka projects.
These procedures are satisfactory. Several major international fertilizer
c:ompanies are represented in Malaysia.  FELDA has established an effective
system of fertilizer supply which serves its entire land settlement program
and it would not be practical or economical to establish a separate supply
system for one project financed by the Bank.  US$4.8 million for road
construction and water supplies, financed by Government, would be implemented
b:y PWD on force account. PI{D performance under these two items has been
satisfactory in the first two Jengka projects.
4!;. 08   Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan are at Annex 10.  Disburse-
inents would generally follow the procedures adopted for Loan 533-MA and
!72-NA and would be made against appropriate documents as follows:



- 15 -
1.   100% of total expenditures (excluding taxes) on land clearing
and planting, oil palm seedlings, upgrading agricultural roads
on oil palm schemes, housing, house lot development, and palm
oi:L mill construction and machinery;
2.   100% of the foreign cost of directly imported fertilizer,
pesticides, vehicles and capital equipment; or 100% of the
exfactory price (excluding taxes) if manufactured locally; or
70% of total expenditures if imported but procured locally;
3.   100% of the foreign cost of consultant services for MARDI; and
4.   interest and other charges incurred on the proposed Bank loan
up to the end of the disbursement period and to a maximum
of US$6.5 million.
The above percentages would be reviewed periodically to ensure that the Bank
loan is gradually disbursed over the period 1973-80 (Annex 10) US$3.2 million
(MS 8.1 million) of the loan would be unallocated to cover contingencies.
Surplus funds would be cancelled. Expenditures on felling and land clearing
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines and incurred after September 1972
for about US$400,000 would be financed retroactively.
D. Accounts and Audit
4.09      As with the first two Jengka projects, FELDA would maintain a
separate account for this project, and it would also be audited independently
by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. FELDA's overall accounts would continue
to be audited by Azman, Wong, Salleh and Co. of Kuala Lumpur. Both of these
external auditing firms are satisfactory to the Bank. The Government's and
FELDA's financial year is January 1 through December 31. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that FELDA would furnish to the Bank within
six months following the close of the fiscal year signed copies of the
auditor's report.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. FELDA
5.01      A description of FELDA's organization, objectives and performance
is at Annex 4. FELDA operates as a quasi-autonomous government agency under
the Ministry of National and Rural Development. It has a wide range of
autonomy on day to day operations. A Board of 13 members under an Executive
Chairman is made up of representatives of public agencies and of the private
sector. The Board determines operating policy and carries overall responsibility.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Bank shall be afforded
an adequate opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of



- 16 -
any proposed new appointee to the positions of Chairman or Director General
of FELDA.  The qualifications, experience and general suitability of any per-
son proposed to be appointed to the position of Director of FELDA's Finance
Department shall be mutually acceptable to Government and the Bank. A deputy
Director General is head of the Field Administration Department, which coor-
dinates all field offices. Other headquarters departments are Budget and
Planning, Finance, Management Services, Engineering, Marketing and Research
(Annex 4, Chart). Field operations are controlled from six Regional Offices
(previously ten), and these offices are being given greater independence as
their efficiency increases.
5.02      As stated at para 2.15, FELDA is being reorganized.  Major changes,
which include decentralization of day to day administration to six regional
offices, are discussed in Annex 4. Accountants and systems analysts are
particularly needed (Annex 4, Table 1). FELDA is expanding training and
recruitment to satisfy these needs and those for about 115 additional middle
managers and 1,000 field supervisors through 1975. This is feasible, provided
competent staff from all racial groups continue to be recruited. Area
managers are recruited mainly from FELDA's own ranks. Scheme managers are
recruited from universities and from the Serdang Agricultural College; they
work as trainees for at least one year before assuming their full responsibili-
t:ies. Field assistants are generally secondary school graduates who receive
17ELDA schooling and initial on-the-job training.
5.03      FELDA is the main Government agency responsible for carrying out
government's settlement policies. It is provided with most of its funds
from government budgetary allocations. The balance has been covered by
[BRD and a loan from the Asian Development Bank, as well as by settler loan
repayments. Recently, FELDA has proposed to Government a reduction of repay-
ments in the case of rubber settlers, in view of the drop in rubber prices
in the world market, and has requested Government to make corresponding
reductions in FELDA's loan repayments to Government. Government is studying
this proposal.
5.04      The collection of data, the presentation of financial accounts,
and management accounting and budgetary control procedures are being improved
under the reorganization plan, and should be fully adequate for control and
planning purposes by early 1973. At present, mostly because staff are being
trained and utilized in the introduction of new accounting and control systems,
it is impossible to obtain up to date financial statements and forecasts.
FELDA's present financial condition is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
from Government that FELDA's commitments for existing settlement schemes and
its future obligations would not impair its effectiveness as the executing
agency for this project.
B. Jengka Regional Office
5.05      Full details of project organization and management are given in
Armex 11. The Jengka Regional Office is one of FELDA's six new regional
offices. The Office would be responsible for policy implementation; advice
on the selection of contractors for agricultural development and civil works;



- 17 -
and would coordinate road construction with the regional branch of PWD,
provision of water supplies with the Federal Government and the State of
Pahang, and provision of schools, health centers, postal, telephone, police
and other sertices with the respective Federal agencies. The Office would
manage the project on a day-to-day basis, would keep complete accounts for
all three Jengka Projects, and would coordinate harvesting and transportation
of ffb to oil mills and of latex to latex collection centers and rubber
factories (paras 3.13 and 3.14). The Office has gained much experience
with the first two Jengka projects and is performing most of these duties
satisfactorily.
5.06      The Office is headed by a new director whose rank in FELDA is that
of area controller. He reports to the director of the Field Administration
Department in Headquarters and is also in close contact with the Department's
Chief Planting Officer for all agricultural matters. An assurance was ob-
tained from Government during negotiations that the area controller for Jengka
would be mutually acceptable to Government and the Bank. As at present, a
manager would be in charge of each scheme of 4,000 to 5,000 acres and would
be supported by an assistant manager, four or five field supervisors and
eight to ten field assistants at full development of each scheme. This staffing
plan is appropriate and feasible in view of FELDA's past experience and its
present recruitment and training programs (para 5.02 and Annex 4 para 12
through 18). A special unit has been created to evaluate project performance.
C. Settlement Procedures
5.08      These would be essentially the same as those practiced under the
first two Jengka projects, and would be as follows:
Settler Selection - Selected candidates are essentially landless
peasants or poor smallholders. Applicants are selected in two stages,
firstly at district level, and secondly at the national level, by FELDA
local and headequarters staff respectively (Annex 11 para 8). Following the
second and final interview, points are given to those who fulfill basic
requirements according to age, family size, amount of land owned, and
agricultural background. Of those who qualify, 20% must be ex-servicemen
and 50% of the balance must come from the State of Pahang. Given the low
numbers of Pahang peasants who either qualify or who are willing to move
into FELDA schemes, because of the ready availability of land around their
village areas, the latter rule generally has not been applied.
Settler Status - Settlers arrive on the schemes about 2 years
after clearing and then sign the first part of settlers' agreements. This
entitles the settler to a FELDA loan to cover all agricultural development,
housing, and houselot expenses during development. Settlers work as hired
labor from their arrival on the scheme until the fifth year after palm
planting, and up to the sixth year after rubber planting. During this
period wage income varies with the amount of work available and consequently
is supplemented if necessary by a subsistence allowance which is included in
the settler's loan to provide a monthly income of M$ 70. At the end of this



- 18 -
ieriod, and if the scheme manager considers his performance satisfactory, the
s,ettler signs the second part of his agreement.  This entitles him to become
an occupier in expectation of title to approximately ten acres of rubber or
oil palm. Once the settler has paid off his loan, over 16 years commencing
on the sixth year after palm planting and on the seventh year after rubber
pLanting (Annexes 12 and 13), his lands are alienated to him individually
(Annex 11, para 12) and he can start managing his property alone or as a member
oE a cooperative or corporate group. Loans to settlers would be at 6-1/4% and
repayable over 22 years including 7 years grace (oil palms) and over 23
years including 8 years grace (rubber). At all times before the loan is
fully repaid the settler must sell his produce to FELDA mills or latex
plants. Loan repayments, palm oil mill amortization charges, and recurrent
input costs are deducted by FELDA before making payments to settlers.
',.09     Settlers repay most costs for the development of their holdings.
T'he only elements of subsidy are an interest rate on loans that is lower than
c:ommercial rates by about 2%, and a scale for management charges that would
probably mean that payments would be below FELDA's administration costs. It
iLs the Government's present policy that interest rates for agriculture should
ie subsidized if necessary to assure minimum rural income levels.  It is also
its policy that management costs, which are similar to extension services,
should only be paid by settlers after annual incomes reach MS 3,600 (Annex
11, Table). However, FELDA and Government are keeping interest rates under
review and current rates are higher than for FELDA schemes carried out prior
t:o the Jengka Triangle settlement.
D. Community Services
35.10     The respective departments of the Federal Government would provide
staff for, and meet the recurrent costs of schools, health centers, post
offices, and police posts constructed under the project. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations. Such arrangements have worked well
under the First and Second Projects.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.  Yields and Production
6.01      Project yield estimates are based on FELDA and private experience
at Jengka and elsewhere in Malaysia where ecological conditions are similar,
and take into account the ability that settlers have shown in managing rubber
and oil palms. Yield estimates for oil palm and rubber are at Annexes 14 and
15. At peak levels, production of rubber is estimated at 30 million pounds
(1992); and that of palm oil at 49,000 tons, and palm kernels at 10,000 tons
(1984/85).



- 19 -
6.02      Rubber yields used in project analysis are up to 20% higher than
those used for the First and Second Projects, since it is assumed that by
the 11th tapping year ethrel latex stimulant would be used. This stimulant
has been tested sufficiently since the first two projects were financed to
justify this assumption.
B.  Marketing and Prices
6.03      Settlers would sell their ffb and rubber latex to FELDA under
pricing formulae that would enable FELDA to cover its processing costs.
After processing, rubber and palm oil would be exported; kernels would be
sold locally for further processing as kernel oil and expeller cake.
6.04      Export contracts for rubber and palm oil would be settled on the
basis of competitive bidding, either by FELDA dealing directly with brokers,
or through a marketing agent as in the past. The Secretariat of the Inter-
governmental Group on Oil Seeds, Oils and Fats, has been informed of the
Project (Annex 16 para 10). Analyses of present and expected world market
conditions for rubber and palm oil have been prepared by the Bank's Economics
Department and are at Annexes 16 and 17. Project exports would increase
world palm oil exports in 1980 by about 1% to 19% of world fats and oil ex-
ports. Palm oil prices are projected to decline slowly from their present
level of US$220/ton to about US$160 in real terms by 1975. Natural rubber
prices are estimated to decline from their January average level of US$0.23/lb
c.i.f. Europe to US$0.17/lb in real terms over the next nine years at the
end of which all project plantings will be in tapping. These estimates are
in pre-devaluation US dollars and should therefore only be considered as
indicative of the long-term trend.
C. Financial Results
6.05      Participating settlers would benefit substantially under the
project. Most settlers selected by FELDA are landless peasants, poor
smallholders or largely unemployed urban dwellers. The family incomes of
such people are estimated at M$ 500 to M$ 600 a year at present.
6.06      For settlers growing oil palms, net annual incomes would be
substantially higher than this in the 6th and 7th years after clearing, and
from the 9th to the 21st year would be on average four and five times these
amounts. Incomes would improve further thereafter when loan repayments would
be completed.. Details are provided in Annex 18, Table 5. For settlers
growing rubber, annual incomes would be between M$ 800 and M$ 900 for the
first four years after a settler arrives on the scheme, and would be higher
than M$ 1,200 thereafter reaching a peak of over M$ 4,500. These incomes
together with the social infrastructure provided would be sufficient to attract
settlers (Annex 19, Table 4).
6.07      From the 6th through the 17th year after clearing the financial
position of oil palm settlers would be substantially better than that of



- 20 -
rubber settlers. This is due to the earlier maturity of oil palms, which in
turn increases family income more rapidly and thereby reduces subsistence
payments by FELDA and the size of the total repayable loan. This situation
would be reversed thereafter, as palm oil yields decline while ethrel applica-
tions increase latex yields. A very small percentage increase in the price of
rubber and/or a small percentage decline in the price of palm oil would
substantially improve the relative income position of rubber settlers in
the first ten years of tapping. These are definite possibilities. The
areas allocated to rubber are those unsuited to oil palm and cannot produce
a better economic alternative.
6.08      Project - A project cashflow is in Annex 20.  Costs up to 1980
include a physical contingency of 5% and price contingencies compounded
annually of 4% on local costs and 6% on foreign costs. The project cashflow
shows that annual surpluses would arise first in 1977, and that these would
remain positive on a cumulative basis for the period required to service the
Bank and Government loans, and for the first replacement of oil palms
(replacement of rubber is financed under a Government replanting scheme).
6.09      Government -  Government revenues derived from the project would
cover costs beginning in project year 8 and cumulative surpluses would
begin in year 14, reaching about US$55 million by the end of the project
life in year 2004 (Annex 21). The cumulative deficit would reach a peak of about
M$ 41 million by 1979. This deficit would be met by Government.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project would support Government plans for agriculture
by increasing production of Malaysia's two main agricultural products, natural
rubber and palm oil, and by providing satisfactory incomes to 4,000 settlers.
Tlhe project's economic rate of return is estimated at 15.5%. The rate of
return on the oil palm development would be about 17.5% and on the rubber,
about 12.4%. Details of the analysis are at Annex 22. Major assumptions
underlying the analysis include: (a) yields and prices given in paras 6.01
and 6.04; (b) exclusion from costs of water supply, school and health center
construction, diversification trials and studies, on the grounds that their
benefits are excluded and would at least equal costs; and (c) smallholder
labor costs have been included at full wage rates during the development
period; afterwards, when farmers take over their holdings a shadow wage rate
of 50% of market labor was applied. This assumption would be equivalent to
an opportunity cost of family labor approximately equal to the income earned
by the majority of Malaysian rubber and paddy smallholders, or the urban un-
employed, which would be the relevant alternative for most project settlers.
A sensitivity analysis indicates that the inclusion of full labor costs after
the development period would reduce the economic rate of return to 14.5%.
Rates of return have not been calculated for cocoa because of the experiemental
character of this small investment.
'7.02     The agricultural development system practiced by FELDA, and the
long experience with standardized planting material and systems for natural



- 21 -
rubber and oil palm in Malaysia, make estimates of yield and timing of
development more reliable than in most other projects. The major variable
involving some uncertainty wfith regard to the economic justification of the
project concerns world market prices for rubber and palm oil. Rubber prices
in real terms are expected to decline from their January level of US23 cts/lb
to US17 cts/lb, and palm oil price to decline from US$220/ton to US$160/ton.
These price projections formed the basis for the economic rate of return calcu-
lation. If rubber prices declined by 10%, below forecast, the economic rate of
return would decline to 10.5%; if palm oil prices declined by 10%, the economic
return would be 15.5%. The impact of the recent US dollar devaluation on rubber
and palm oil prices is still not clear but would certainly not imply a price
decline of this magnittude since the major part of world exports of palm oil
and rubber are marketed in Western Europe. Since the 1971 US dollar exchange
rate adjustment rubber and palm oil prices have actually increased substantially.
7.03      At: peak rubber production in years 1991/93 the project would
generate about US$5.0 million a year in net foreign exchange earnings.
The equivalent value at peak palm oil production in years 1983/84 would
be US$7.0 million.
7.04      Agricultural development in Malaysia depends to a significant
degree in opening up new land for cultivation. Earlier settlement schemes
with lower unit costs have failed due to lack of infrastructure development
and sufficient incentives to settlers. This has not occurred on the past twqo
Jengka projects and is unlikely to occur in this project since, at maturity,
it would provide satisfactory annual incomes ranging from MS 1,500 (US$590)
to M$ 4,500 (US$1,800) per year for about 4,000 families whose incomes would
otherwise be about M$ 550 or US$220. The project would have a substantial
employment effect. It is estimated that more than 4,000 workers would be
employed by contractors for agricultural development in project years 1 through
4, and permanent project employees and those providing related services, an
additional 3,000 persons. Contract labor and most other unskilled workers
would receive M$ 3/day, or about M$ 1,000 a year.
7.05      The project would also contribute to the research effort on
existing and new crops to improve yields and to help diversify agricultural
production. In particular, much better understanding of the technical and
economic aspects of commercial scale cocoa production would be gained through
the proposed trials, and a research program would be prepared for MARDI.
VIII.  RECOM2ENDATIONS
8.01      The following principal assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) For the study of MARDI, Government shall employ consultants
acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para 3.16);



- 22 -
(b)  Government would continue to make available to FELDA, monthly
and in advance, the investment funds and working capital
required by the project (para 4.05);
(c)  FELDA would furnish to the Bank within six months following
the close of the fiscal year signed copies of the auditor's
report (4.09); and
(d)  The respective departments of the Federal Government would
provide staff for, and meet the recurrent costs of schools,
health centers, post offices, and police posts constructed
under the project (5.10).
8.02      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million
repayable over 23 years including 8 years of grace on repayment of principal.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MAIAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Progress of Projects Financed by Loans MA-434, 500 and 673
A.   Loan 434-MA - Muda Irrigation - US$45 Million Equivalent
1.        The project comprises the construction of facilities to irrigate
about 260,000 acres of land for double cropping with paddy in the States
of Kedah and Perlis in the northwest of West Malaysia. The loan became
effective on February 1, 1966.
2.        Physical works are now complete except for some minor items
and correction of deficiencies.
3.        Water distribution was not considered a problem at appraisal,
but after construction was underway, tests showed water took 40 days to reach
all fields after irrigation was started up, instead of a more usual 20 days.
This is being remedied by digging more field and sub-lateral feeding channels.
4.        Targets for off-season cropping have been reached during the first
two years of the program. It is expected that about 170,000 acres will be
double-cropped this year.
5.        Farmers Associations are functioning well and are overcoming
initial staffing problems by a more intensive recruitment program.
6.        The use of agricultural credit is on the increase, but not yet
fully satisfactory. The Agricultural Bank in cooperation with the Project
Authority, has adopted a flexible approach to problems as they have arisen,
and the outlook is promising. The credit program was originally based on
active participation by the commercial sector in supplying inputs as well
as purchasing rice output, but more recently the Bank and the Farmers
Association have taken a more dominant role, and the interest of the commer-
cial sector has declined.
7.        Total drying, storage and milling capacity in the project area
is now fully adequate to handle both main and off-season rice production
at this time. Additional facilities are planned according to future needs.
In summary, the project is progressing satisfactorily, and is generally up
to appraisal expectations.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
B. Loan 500-MA - Kemubu Irrigation - US$10 Million Equivalent
8.        The project comprises the construction of facilities to irrigate
4ii,000 acres of land for double cropping with paddy in the State of Kelantan
:in Northeast West Malaysia. The loan became effective on October 31, 1967.
9.        Approximately 43,000 acres can now be physically supplied with
irrigation water. Quaternary canals (distribution channels to groups of
farns) to serve the balance of the area should be completed for the 1973
off-season crop.
1Q.       The target for planting the first off-season paddy crop under the
project, from April to August, 1972, was 30,000 acres. However, due to delays
in harvesting the last main-season crop and some confusion arising from a
change in the variety planted, land preparation is now about one year behind
schedule. Changes in investment costs, production areas, estimated yields
and prices prompted a recalculation of the economic rate of return.  The new
estimate is about 12% compared with 13% during appraisal. Physical works are
almost completed except for quaternary canals and 43,000 acres can now be
supplied with irrigation water. However, land preparation is about one year
behind schedule. The original Closing Date was June 30, 1972.
1..       Organization and activities of Farm Associations and Multipurpose
Cooperative Societies have progressed as scheduled and supply of seeds,
chemicals, fertilizers, contractor services, as well as provision of
extension, training, and marketing services and facilities are satisfactory.
The credit program organized by the Agricultural Bank is now taking shape,
and improvements in handling short term credit are being implemented, based
to a large extent on experience in the Muda Project. Although tobacco and
groundnuts are becoming more popular as off-season crops, research and ex-
:ension on other crops is being carried out.  Moreover, research on fertilizer
use, treatment of acid soils and other cultural practices is being intensified.
C. Loan 673-MA - Jengka Forestry - US$8.5 Million
12..      The project establishes a forest industries complex to extract,
process and market timber from the Jengka Triangle and bordering areas.  It
Lncludes a mechanized logging unit, a sawmill, a plywood mill, and auxiliary
facilities and infrastructure. The loan became effective on October 14,
'1970.
14.       The project has been delayed for a number of reasons, particularly
:oor overall management, especially deteriorating relations between manage-
ment and consultants and poor coordination between production staff and
management; cost overruns requiring additional Government financing; low
production of sawn timber; low timber export prices; and floods in the
project area. Most of the human and technical problems can be traced to
the lack of previous experience in Malaysia with such a complex, highly
integrated operation.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
15.       More recently, steps have been taken to improve management, such
as better relations with outside agencies, defining responsibilities of
key staff, recruiting additional staff internationally, and expanding
training facilities for Malaysian staff. Government funds have been advanced
to permit the continuation of operations. The sawmill is still at the
running-in stage, and additional equipment will be needed to increase
capacity. The design and installation of machinery for the plymill are
sound. The overall implementation of the project has improved substantially
over the last several months, and much better performance is expected in
the future.
February 23, 1973



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MALAYSA
FPUS JENOKA TRIANGLE PUOJUCT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
9=6FM41857 183 8  .        .4..7 P191                                                                                                                             19.2 ID73
C (VG4 a .   .   01 -U37 Y. . .,                 .
7097.2190, J9~~~~~~~~~~~9 6.               -    ~ ~ ~~..  ..................
114-t   -A.  IE /                                          
0,TiSC JS' NC_|| 9991,,.llllUal
L  IG51.9 2999 YI9_ l*@|
-1-1GI 99.0                                                                              -                         II.I.I.....I  A
9.09  G' 7.  .9491 -c -_                                                                                                                       ,,.,.,...m,.n
_.9T.90    9                                                                                                                                   -                       ..........,n...mo
-L.9l l'  r^a                                                                                 ,
2- ht      11 6  I'I                                                                                                                           -     - -11
*19N~~~~~~~~~~l9~~~~~~ .944 91                                                                                                    --~~~~~~~~~~. ........
FELL-L      1'.N                                                                                                                                                                                              P
F _LINV   1-02 .C                                                                                                lll 
=      .'E 9160 (9,64                                                                        __l
F(  L  27914  .149.91
- L E   DPF.. .  A 11
A - A T - O   4
SCL4 -_    _ __PEWI-E,0                                                                                                                                         t
sl. . sc   ^ I}7 .s                                  ^ _  _    __||tZ{1tB   P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.



I



MALAYSIA
FIRST JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                          _
_ _ _1i.E~i~                             ~                 FM  AM  196U                          970                         51l                         1,72             117J1                                    j  1941                1975
ACCE SS RQOAD                                    _               ____ _________
f VILLA,E ROAD
WA LR SLU RI Y
SETTI ERG HOUSES
STAFF QUAI-LIILES
rACCESS RANA                                                       _             _____________
I VI AAG  RlOA_
SF1 'TLES LIOUSES.
KSTAFF QUA7RTES                                                                                _
(ACCESS ROAD _
I VILL tAGE F OAN                                                                                                                   _
W  :A IFS SURFLY                                                                                          _                   
5S Ir' SRTFISARI                                                                                                                                    .
(ACCESS FOAD                                                                                              _ _            __________ .___
I VAL LAGF UGOAL
_ WATlR SLJ'F
I FTI  LE'-S IlLDLSES
- IAL F QUARTERS
(ACCESS R.EIU;  _
1SF I LESS OLGT,_
5.STALL IDUARTERSA_                                                                                                                                 
(ACErSA  NOAI                                                                                                                                          _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
I; GIL AG;E GLAD
GS7    WALER SUE LY_
SF1 I ILLS - 1SF ..
(ACCESS AIAD ,                                                                                                                                  _ MM
I ILLALSE R     IA ,
SETTLEIS HOUSES
STAFF (LUAI CRLS
UCLEGS ROAD 
3106     IhATF'4SGUF-FLG                                                                                                                                      =____..____.
SCTTL FR  NO. .CS
SrArr OLL--ERGS
fACCESS ROAU_                                                                                                                                                                                      _=.
1J WARES SUIT'ISLY                                                                                                                                                                     _I                     _          .        .         ..            ....
SECT LENS ILILSES                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
STALFE DUATTESA
REFERF  R
ILLANSFIl OSHllNALLY
.     -   AEX.TuAL
W = E               UF EAPLE.09CO



i              I                                                                                                                                                                  I        



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
The Federal Land Development Authority
Background
1.        The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) was created under
the Land Development Ordinance of 1956 to carry out land development and
settlement projects.
2.        From 1957 to 1960, Y¶?LDA allocated Federal funds to State corpora-
tions and land boards for federally approved land development schemes. In
the 15 schemes operated during the period, it exercised influence primarily
through its loan approving functions. However, it also experimented with
one direct management scheme with good results. Because of the difficulties
of coordinating the many State and Federal agencies involved in other
schemes overall progress on land development was slow. In 1960 new legislation
gave FELDA more control over land ownership. Since that time, FELDA has been
directly involved in planning and administration of land development schemes.
It has become a major institutional instrument for agriculture and rural
development in Malaysia.
Settlement Schemes
3.        FELDA schemes are large, generally covering several thousand acres.
Rights to the land are negotiated with the relevant state governnent.
Premium and rent charges are usually waived until the land comes into produc-
tion. Clearing, planting and early maintenance are performed under contract,
and settlers are brought in once the basic infrastructure has been completed,
generally in the fourth year. Settlers are chosen on the basis of such
criteria, as age, experience, physical health, marital status and amount
of land previously owned. They are employed on their own holding or in
other jobs and are guaranteed a minimum subsistence allowance. This and
other development costs are charged to the settler's loan account. Repayment
begins once the crop (oil palm or rubber) comes into production, and is
deducted from the value of produce, which must be sold through the Authority.
The total loan which the settler nust repay, including interest at 6-1/4
percent, is generally in the range of M$ 12,000-20,000.
4.        The physical achievements of FELDA are considerable.  To the end
of 1971, over 23,000 families have been settled, and more than 350,000 acres
of land have been opened, as shown in the following table.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
PLANTED AREA
(Thousand acres)
FAMILIES SETTLED
(Thousand)
Year           Rubber           Oil Palm           Total             Total
1957-1963        71                9                80                 6.4
1964             22                8                30                 1.2
1965              9               10                10                 1.3
1966             14               14                28                 1.5
1967              9               18                27                 1.7
1968              3               31                34                 3.8
1969              2               37                39                 2.6
1970             18               33                51                 2.3
1971             19               29                48                 2.3
Total           167              189               356                23.1
Total area planted has averaged 30,000 acres annually from 1964 through 1969.
With an intensive effort 51,000 acres were planted in 1970, and 48,000 in
1971. The 1972 total is expected to be about 60,000.
5.        The level of management has been relatively high, although stan-
dards have dropped slightly as a result of the increased rate of development
in the past few years. More problems have been encountered, on the social
aspects of the schemes. Settlers have little or no involvement in project
administration, and, at least in the early stages of settlement, have few
alternative employment opportunities. They have no clear understanding of
their financial position and settlers on rubber schemes have recently had
difficulty in meeting loan repayments. This had led to an increase in sales
of latex or rubber outside the scheme so as to avoid deductions.
6.        Aware of these problems, FELDA has established a Settler Development
Division to handle the grievances of settlers. A settlement officer has been
stationed in each of the schemes, and Scheme Development Committees have been
formed to involve the settlers in some of the management and administration
decisions. This Division has recently been absorbed into the Field Adminis-
tration Department. Its operations are important to the success of FELDA
operation and are been given suitable priority by FELDA management.
7.        With world rubber prices expected to remain low in the future,
the financial difficulties of rubber settlers on FELDA schemes are receiving
particular attention. Two possibilities appear likely to improve the position.
The most important is to advance the age at which trees come into bearing
from the present seven years to the six or five years currently achieved by
private estates. A reduction of this order in the unproductive life of the
tree would lower considerably the debt incurred by each settler and raise
correspondingly his net income. An alternative is to increase the size of
a rubber smallholding. With new tapping and collecting techniques, one
family can manage a larger area of rubber than the 10 acres currently allott-
ed, and holdings of up to 15 acres are being considered for the future.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        FELDA settlement programs are also facing other difficulties.
Firstly, settlement is lagging behind land clearing and planting, largely
because the development of infrastructure, which is in the hands of other
government departments, is behind schedule. This applies particularly to
the provision of access roads, water supplies, schools, clinics, and to a
lesser extent to land drainage facilities. A special road construction unit
has now been established for FELDA schemes in Pahang, and this should prevent
future bottlenecks. The second problem is the increasing difficulty of
securing suitable land for FELDA-type schemes from State governments. To
meet planned rates of public land development, FELDA must strengthen its
working arrangements with the State governments, particularly Pahang and
Johore.
9.        FELDA's other operations include the building and management of
one medium sized rubber factory and four palm oil mills. In 1971 it
marketed approximately 65 million pounds of rubber and 47,000 tons of palm
products. In 1971 FELDA began developing 10,000 acres of sugar cane and
entered into an association with a private firm for the construction and
operation of a sugar mill and a refinery. It is also conducting applied
research on coconuts, cocoa and beef production for possible future com-
mercial production.
10.       During the next decade FELDA plans to:
(a) develop rubber and oil palm plantations at the rate of
100,000 acres a year and settle 9 to 10,000 families
a year through 1975 and beyond;
(b) build and operate 10 additional palm oil mills and 10
rubber factories; and
(c) establish and operate two transit and two main export
palm oil storage facilities with a total capacity of
100,000 tons.
FELDA has also been entrusted with carrying out the land development component
(some 400,000 acres) of the proposed Southeast Johore development program for
which Bank assistance may be sought in calendar 1973.
Organization and Management
11.       FELDA's organization has been modified over the last two years
to meet its primary responsibilities. The present structure is shown by
the chart. FELDA is responsible to the Minister of National and Rural
Development. It is given wide autonomy for day to day administration.
Operating policy is set, and overall supervision handled by a Board consist-
ing of 13 members, which includes representatives of the public and private
sectors.  The Director General, FELDA's chief executive, is a member of the
Board. He has been in his post since 1965 and is a career civil servant.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
I2.       The rapid growth and diversification of FELDA's activities demanded
a major reorganization of its basic structure and operating procedures. The
recommendations resulting from a recent reorganization study conducted by a
private consulting firm, Public Administration Services (PAS) of Chicago, are
now being implemented.
'13.      The main features of the new organization and management structure
are!:
(a) FELDA's main executive officer in practice is the Director
General rather than as in the past the Chairman of the
Board.
(b) A new department of Field Administration has been created
headed by FELDA's Deputy Director General. The Department
has the responsibility of coordinating all field offices,
and has absorbed the previous Planting and Settlers' Affairs
Departments.
(c) A new Engineering Department is responsible for all activities
previously handled by the Projects and Processing Departments,
and as such will manage directly all industrial and agricul-
tural plant and equipment.
(d) A new Budget and Planning Department has been created to
analyze and approve budget proposals submitted by the area
controllers through the Field Administration Department,
and to formulate future policies and plans.
(e) The Finance Department has been restructured and strengthened.
(f) A new Management Services Department is responsible for
staffing and training, and general services and coordinates
procurement with Engineering.
(g) The Marketing Department has been enlarged to handle directly
domestic sales of rubber, palm oil and kernels, and rubber
and palm oil exports.
(h) The Research Department has been given added responsibilities,
such as expanding applied research on cocoa and coconuts and
of administering a substation in Johore.
(i) Field offices have been reduced from 10 to 6 and placed under
six area controllers. Under these controllers are 30 area
managers (each with responsibility for an average of 15,000
acres), supported by scheme managers and assistant managers,
field supervisors and assistants.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
14.       FELDA plans to allocate main responsibilities in the future as
follows:
(a) Land development: Setting of general guidelines - Director
General and his deputy; land clearing, planting, and upkeep
Chief Planting Officer (Field Administration) and field
officers.
(b) Housing and administration buildings - private contractors
under the supervision of field offices;
(c)  Infrastructure - the respective Government offices as in
the past, but supervision would be by area controllers and
not by FELDA headquarters.
(d) Construction and operation of mills and of rubber plants -
Engineering.
(e)  Staffing - the Director General for professional staff, and
to area controllers for subprofessionals.
(f) Procurement - Management Services, Engineering and Field
Administration jointly for contracts above M$ 10,000; to
area controllers for smaller contracts.
(g) General field management, including transport of ffb and
of latex - area controllers.
(h)  Loan administration - scheme managers.
(i) Settler Selection - the Director General, supported by
Management Services and Field Administration.
(j) Consumers retail stores - under a subsidiary FELDA corporation
directly responsible to the Director General, eventually to
be made autonomous and to be managed by settlers' cooperatives.
Staffing and Training
15.      The very rapid expansion of FELDA's activities has put a severe
strain on its managers and other staff. This has been aggravated by the
decentralization of field activities, which required large numbers of
administrative staff to fill newly created positions.
16.      Area and scheme managers, and staff for the recently expanded
Finance Department at headquarters are in short supply. FELDA will need
about 113 area and scheme managers and scheme assistant managers by 1975.
It is now recruiting annually about thirty graduates of the Serdang School



ANNEX 4
Page 6
of Agriculture, who receive one year of training as assistant scheme managers
before becoming scheme managers. Assuming a one-third annual dropout rate
among Serdang graduates, about 30 managers will have to be recruited during
the period 1972 to 1976 from private estate managers. This is feasible,
provided recruitment continues from all racial groups. In the case of the
Finance Department, a much greater effort will have to be made to recruit
and/or train accountants and systems analysts (Table 1).
17.       The staffing needs at the lowest supervisory grade, that of
field assistants, are filled by secondary school graduates, who receive
one year of training and schooling in FELDA's two training centers and five
schools. These have a capacity of about 300 students per year. No shortage
of field assistants is foreseen, especially after 1974. The best field
assistants are promoted to field supervisors after a minimum one year of
field work.
18.       The high rate of staff attrition which prevailed in the past has
been largely stopped by a recent agreement among public sector agencies
not to recruit staff from each other without mutual agreement. Private
estates are not recruiting new staff at present, which further reduces
the danger of FELDA losing good and experienced managers.
Research
19.       The FELDA research center is located at Sungei Tekam in Jengka.
The main research priorities at present are: fertilizer trials on rubber
and oil palm, the testing of oil palms planting material; cropping trials
with cocoa and hybrid coconut trials, both as single crops and interplanted;
and beef cattle grazing trials. FELDA agreed recently to transfer its
annual crop experimentation to the Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute (MARDI). The Institute has been created to centralize
all agricultural research.
20.       Research work on oil palms has been intensified, with the instal-
lation of new laboratories and the designation of staff to carry out trials.
Cocoa and hybrid coconut breeding is conducted on 200 acres under the
direction of a UMDP-recruited specialist. The purpose is to reintroduce
cocoa to the interior of West Malaysia, as dieback problems seem to have
been overcome; and to expand the planting of hybrid coconuts. These give
higher yields and have shorter immature periods than the tall coconut variety,
thus substantially increasing farmers' incomes in the coastal areas.
21.       While the work with oil palms, rubber, cocoa and coconuts has
proceeded reasonably well, the cattle grazing trials have lacked proper
purpose and direction. This, together with floods has hindered progress
and made results inconclusive. FELDA decided recently to hold consultations
with MARDI, the Veterinary Department, and the newly created Natural Livestock



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Production Board to determine the best possible orientation and coordination
of its beef cattle trials.
Finances
22.       The main sources of finance for FELDA are:  Federal Government
budget allocations; settlers loan repayments; IBRD loans for the First and
Second Jengka Projects (US$27 million) and a recently approved Asian Develop-
ment Bank Loan of US$8.4 million for the construction of two palm oil mills.
23.       Government budget allocations are made annually to FELDA:
(a) As loans for relending tc, settlers to cover the cost of
agricultural development, housing, house lots and settler
subsistence, bearing interest of 5-1/2% and with repayment
periods of 25 years including 4 years of grace on interest
charges and 10 years on principal repayments. Such loans
are estimated at M$ 86 million for 1972.
(b) As grants for FELDA's administrative and other expenses,
which are budgeted at M$ 25 million in 1972.
24.       Up to the present FELDA has never experienced budgetary constraints,
and as far as can be seen, this situation should prevail in the future
given Government's priority to land settlement schemes and its favorable
budgetary position.
25.       Recently FELDA submitted to Government a plan to reduce loan
repayments made by its rubber smallholders. This proposal has been made in
view of rubber price declines on the world market, which have made it more
difficult or impossible for many smallholders to repay their loans in full.
The proposed basis for repayment is a fixed amount per acre per year which
would increase with the size of the holding. This system would permit net
annual family incomes of M$ 125 a month, assuming a cif first quality
rubber price of M$ 0.44/lb. Government is studying this proposal which if
accepted would involve adjusting its loan repayment terms to FELDA accordingly.
26.       Agricultural development costs such as land clearing, planting
and initial upkeep as well as housing and office construction costs are
fairly well standardized and controlled. On the other hand the costs of
road building, village site preparation, water supply and most importantly,
general administration, appear to be increasing. No exact figures can be
given until the new data collection and accounting systems are installed
and have been in operation for at least six months, i.e. by early 1973.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Accounts and Audit
27.       FELDA's accounts are of two main types:  administration and loan,
cotrresponding to the two types of financing it receives from Goverment
(para 23). Up to now administrative accounts have been consolidated for
1:ILe whole of FELDA, but in future accounts will be kept at both individual
scheme and headquarter  levels.  The loan account is a consolidation of all
costs charged to schemes.  Separate accounts are kept for each scheme, and
ia:)re recently for each settler.
28.       FELDA's accounting organization and procedures failed to keep
pace with its rapid expansion and diversification, and for this reason
FELDA appointed the firm of Public Administrative Services (PAS) of
Clhicago to carry out a study of its general and financial administration.
B]ased on PAS's preliminary recommendations, and those of the UNDP-recruited
1:emporary financial director, the Finance Department has been reorganized.
2.2.      Within the Finance Department, and under the new arrangement, the
:rasurer will be responsible for keeping a strict cash control, register
ca:sh movements, and forecast cash inflows and outflows based on operations
raId on recommended short term cash investments. The Treasurer began
rvidlLng four-month cashflow projections in September 1972.
13).      The Systems Division has responsibility for field accounting;
de!vsing procedures adapted to computers, training staff in accounting and
bo:okkeeping, recording major policy decisions and making them available to
field staff, and introducing new methods and techniques based on the new
a::counting system.
311.      The Operations Division pre-audits, sorts and controls accounts.
It has begun data processing programming and will revise its financial
ruLnagement systems, take over settlers' accounts and inventories, and pre-
sently is updating the masterfile.  Financial Analysis has to evaluate
performance, and is responsible for financial planning and for originating
i'Lnancial policy recomendations to the Director General.
3:2.      The main problems of the Finance Department are:
(a)  Inadequate staff:  a more vigorous recruitment and training
effort has to be made, especially of accountants and systems
analysts; and of area controllers and managers to permit further
decentralization of account processing. The Financial Analysis
Division has not started operations yet for lack of staff.
(b)  New accounting systems have to be devised for new operations,
such as the recently started sugar cane complex (para 9).
(c)  Inventory control requires additional training of staff at
lower levels.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(d) Redefinition of responsibilities of field staff.
33.       Since the Finance Department has been reorganized, new procedures
introduced, and its existing staff recruited within the last few months, a
period of not less than one year will be needed to make the Department an
effective operational unit. This assumes staff recruitment and training
are pursued vigorously to implement the reorganization plan. Because of
staff shortages and the employment of existing accounting staff in helping
introduce new accounting methods and techniques, no meaningful financial
statements could be prepared at present. FELDA will endeavor to supply
the Bank with financial statements for 1972 and with a cashflow of its
operations for the next five years by May 1, 1973.
34.       FELDA's overall accounts are audited by Azman, Wong, Salleh and
Company, a local firm. FELDA maintains separate project accounts for both
Jengka I and II, and these are audited independently by Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell and Co., who would also audit the separate accournt for this project.
In view of the interruption in preparation of accounting data and reorganiza-
tion of the Finance Department during 1972, it would be prudent to receive
audited project accounts for Jengka I and II for the year 1972 before this
project became effective, and this would be made a condition of effectiveness.



I



MALAY31 A
T!r riD JENGKA TRIAiCLE  WISlECT
FEDA HEADQUARTE16 PRnFE3SiSONAL STAFF
Director Ge,eral
Pecsocool Ascicocnt
INTE}RAL AUDIT                           UDMET AND 'LANNING                       FINANCE                          MANAGEMERNT SEISSIC;ES      aMGrNEMlTHN                             'YARXFTIN5                                  RESEARCH
I Senior Administrative Officer         1 Manager                                 l Manager                         Administration             General Igineering                       1 Director                                 1 Director
? Financial Supervisors                 1 Chief Accountant                                                          I Direct                   1  l4npaaer                              ? Senior Marketing Officers
3 Senior AdmInistrative Officers         Operations                                                    1 Chief rgiinece,                      1  Marketing Officers (7 vacant)           Administration
PUNIC NaRTIUNS               ~~~~I Administrattie Officer               1 Senior A-=cotant                Training                   I1,-9,;,  ..-                                                                      1 Director
PUELIC RELATTONS                        I Financial Supervisor                    3            - (? vacant)           tester Directors            Ci/il Rhmers (2  'oc-ri.)                                                        1 Station Manager
9 eOinancial Sopervisors            Teachers                      chanical SEgineer -                                                              Chemist,
I Public Relation, Officer                                                            (6 vacant)                     C-3ion1 Direto,rsirsiVe
Teachers                                                                                                    Analyticai
LErAL                                                                             Financial Analysis                                           3cr,                                                                                1 Senisr Research  Assistant
3 Senior Accoanlomt.                                         1 Chief Survoy                                                                      1 Research  Assistant
s Senior Lasyer                                                                       (I eacont)                                               l. ltrors  Assistants
2 A.ccotants                                                                                                                                     Breedin  & Agronocric
(hoth vacnt)                                              kMipent                                                                           1 Research Officer
RETAIL STORES                                                                     TreMury                                                          echanical lineineers                                                            1 Research Assistant
I Manager                                                                         I Senior Accowit ant                                         Oil Ps1.  Processcg                                                                 Cocoa
1 Accontant                                                                       7 Adinistratice Officers                                      1 Chief Processing Engincer                                                          R Research Officers
1 Head Operot-o-s                                                                                                                              2 Soper-osory Enriseers                                                             1 Research  Assistant
I Personnel Off-ce                                                               rData & Systems                                               1 Senior Administratice Officer
7 SenIor iccooctosts                                         I, Flscinecro                                                                       Livestock
5 Systems Asalyoto                                           1 Admlistrotie Offlcsc                                                              2 Research Officers
(13 -ant)                                                                                                                                    I Research  Assistants (vacnt)
1 Adoinistroti-c Officer                                     Rbbher Processing
I 'ro -rasser                                                 I Chief Ehgineer                                                                   Crop Protection
1 Assistant Progr-orer                                          F Espiscers                                                                      2 Research Officcrs
I Research As~sistant
bucit Besar (Johore) Seed Production
l cot flrcc&-r
I Research Assistant
f-flD IADMINISfRAIION
1 Director
I Senior Advisor
6 Adoinliratic *fficcr
lociol Services (Settlers Relatioss)
1 Senior Adviser
6 Administrative Ifficers
Ocera Li no
1 Director
2 Admlnistrutbve  fficers
1 World Food Program Off:cer
4/
1 Director
1 Senior Adeinistrotioc 2159Cr
1 Administrstl-e Office,r
1 Lad Assistant
Agricoltoral Services
1 Planting Director
I Senior Plantiop Officer
6 Agricult.ra1 Officers
1/ Settler Selection, Settler,' Agreements. Title Registratinn
i r e 2



MALAYSIA
7HID JENKGA TMIANLE PhOJECT
FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
AL'MINISTRATION ACCOUNT
PRtELIMINARY FINANCIAL STAT3MENT AT 31ST DECEMBEiA. 1`71
1970         Administration Fund                                                                1970         Expenditure
December                                                                                        December
Established under
SectiQtL 7(i) (b) of the
Land Development Ordinance 1956                                               $ 8,o92,457       Fixed Assets                          $11,489,178
Government of Malaysia
$70,360,338     Grants at 1.1.1971                            $8,) 8lf,338                      84,153,023      Management Sxpenditure                104,009,7t2
19,0i8 00      Received duririg year                          .           $112,418,338
World Bank Loan Payable                                                           (698,640)     Cash at bank (Cumulative Surplus)         970,791
601,266     Loans at 1.1.1971                 2,128,50O
1,066,286     Received during year              1,622,121    3,753,623
Interest and Commitment
460 y5      Charges to-daLe                                   300,730    ii,o5i,353
$91,546,840 $176,469,691                                                                       $91,546,8110                                           $ii6,469,69i
October 11, 1972



MALAYSIA
THIRD JGENKA hTIALeGLE PROJEC' 
FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
LOAN
PRELIMINARY FINANCIAL S3TATEMlT AT 31ST DEC&MERH, 197'
2970        Land Dvc ...opmenL. F4.riln                        17                               1970y       Loans                                              197i
Decemb)ar                                                                                       December
&ta:-tlshed uinier Se :  7()  (..)  *t'f                                                       Loaris to Development Schemes ~inu
Land DOeve oouenrt Cr iinance '395(-                                           $267,392,906   other Pro-ects (Other than Jengka                 9.9,i  7,J )
Goverrnenert of MNlays.ia:-                                                                                      Project Szriemes'
66,996,241   Add: Tnterest capitalrzed                            1  1. .-
251,034,574    Loan received                                  31 ,0A, 574                      334,389,147                                                    1404,226,555
10,4545,44    Iinterest capitalized to 31/1!.                 15,210,372                        25,871,289   Less: Kepayment                     $31,335,o¢9
261, 489,L'I1                                                 316,244, 91:6                      12,89,056            Ruober planting
Grants Itec.                12,951,916   44,286,985  359, 9,7',
80y,i.;9   i.es:: :epaymealt3                               1,508,080   314,736,866          38,680,345
,6?, 6, ;,, 9, {>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3868,34
World Sank Loan Payable                                                          295,708,802
9,876,117    Loan3 received                                  19,1614,597                         g,699,432   Loans to Kelartan Land
Development Board                                 2,699,432
43L'bL     Interest c,apitalized                            I,;79,87.5   '0,440,4(0
1,39,1,24u   Add: Intereut Capitalized                         1,5992,94
.,31- '
ij 39t 672                                                     4,292,026
A-.i DE.vcio,,.-ml:munt. 3nk Loan Payable                      2,197,86i3            920 000   Less:  Hubber Planting                                920, 0:     3,372,'!2C:
3,173,672           Grants Rec.
5. ,978,P10    Tntercst Receivable                                           71i,655,972
16,600,973   Loans to Jerigka Projects                         1 9, 604, r,3 7
2 -ro 000    Scheries' Undistributed Proceeds                                2,260,000                         Schemes
1.,288,036   Add: Interest capitalized                          7,1.          2, 3 6, 1'
17,889,009
- - ._____ _                                                                           15,478,(6.01   Cash and Investments                                           28,673,42
'332, 49,544                                                                 $4i4,291,101.       $332,249,544                                                                   114,251,101
October 12, 1972
(D
a_ ,-



I



IIALAYSIA
'ifI-D J .'hJ ,KA T .;J'T 'iGLE P'0JZC 'r
FY-ILDA '3  O1SGATIZATIObN STTUCTUItE
Minister of N',ational
*& k-ral Development
Chairman and Board
of The Authority
Internal Audit           Director General                      Legal
Public Relations                                         i                                          Retail Stores
Budget      Finance               Management                   Engineering             Marketing        Research
and i                            Services.
Planning                                                                                     ,I
Operations           Personnel Administration   General Engineering  IThubbc-r              Analytical
Financial Analysis      and Training              Surveys                 Palm Products   Breeding and
Treasury             Procurement                  E'quipment                                   Agronomy
Data & Systems       General Services             Oil Palm Processing                       Cocoa
;  ibber Processing                      Livestock
Croo Protection
'  Johore Substation
Field Administration
Operations
Agriculture
.,ocial
i
Controllers
fitest Pahang          Jengka             Central            North            South             -a;st
Area.                Area              Area               Area             Area              Area                ::V
Area Man.agers                                                           C
Scheme Managers
Supervisors
Field Assistuants
October 12, 1972



I



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIAiGLE PROJECT
The Jengka Triangle Program
1.        The project proposed for Bank financing is the third and last
stage of a program for the development of the Jengka Triangle, the Master
Plan for which was prepared by Tippetts-Abbett-MicCarthy-Stratton and Hunting
Technical Services (TAI4S-Hunting) and was partly financed by a technical
assistance grant from the Bank. The first stage of the program is being
financed in part by a Bank loan of US$14 million and the second stage by
a Bank loan of US$21.5 million, of which US$13 million is for land settlement
and US$8.5 million for forestry exploitation.
2.        The Jengka Triangle is in the State of Pahang, about 120 miles
northeast of Kuala Lumpur and in the center of West Malaysia (Map).  It
covers some 300,000 acres (470 square miles) of which about 136,500 acres
are occupied or reserved. The remaining 163,500 acres are available for
development, and consist largely of undulating land divided by many streams
and valleys. The climate is typical of West Malaysia, with an abundant
and evenly distributed rainfall of about 90 inches per annum and a mean
daily temperature between 770F and 83°F.
3.        The undeveloped part of the Triangle is mainly under natural rain
forest which has been exploited haphazardly and inefficiently. Rubber is
Droduced on the periphery by smallholders and four rubber schemes are being
developed by FELDA near the Triangle. Oil palms are grown on the east side
of the Triangle on a FELDA scheme and on an adjacent estate.
4.        Limited commercial and social services are provided at the towns
of Jerantut in the north and Maran in the southeast. Temerloh in the
southwest is larger and is a center of local government and urban services.
Prior to its development, the Triangle itself had no settled population.
5.        The land capability assessments made by TAIS-Hunting indicated
that about 93,000 acres would be suitable for either oil palms or rubber.
Another 7,000 acres have been added to the total area as also suitable for
palms or rubber under the proposed Third Project. Some 61,000 acres are
definitely suitable for oil palm and the remainder, because it has poorer
soil and steeper slopes, would be more suitable to rubber. The decision
on which crop to plant also takes into account the price forecasts for
each. Since these have varied considerably since 1968 the original land
use recommendations have not been followed. The present recommendations
on which crop to plant in the Third Jengka Project are based on land
suitability.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        The Program provides for the phased development of the Jengka
Triangle during the 12-year per bd 1966 to 1977 by means of FELDA supervised
smallholder development supported by the provision of rural and urban
infrastructure and services. Under Stage I, a total of 33,110 acres have
been cleared of which some 23,800 acres will be oil palms and 4,200 acres
will be rubber. The original project consisted entirely of oil palms but
on soil, topographic and price considerations, the last scheme consisting of
4,200 acres was changed to rubber. The development of 30,390 acres under
the Stage II Project has left some 40,000 acres of plantings for the proposed
third stage.
7.        It is estimated in the Program that the population of the Jengka
Triangle would total some 105,000 people, distributed by occupation as
follows:
(a)  Settlers with families on new land ....      ........  59,000
(b) Settlers and families existing FELDA
schemes which could eventually be
administered as part of the Triangle
Program ...........     ............................   13,000
(c) Rural support (FELDA staff, health,
etc.) ...........    ..............................   12,500
(d)  Towns (Government and FELDA staff,
commercial, forest industry workers,
etc.) ............    .............................   20,000
104,500
B.        Proposed educational and medical facilities were based on the
consultants' recommended village size of 100 family units, whereas the
Government and FELDA decided that, in conformity with other FELDA schemes,
the villages would be of 400 family units. Each village will contain a
primary school, midwife clinic, community center, religious building,
recreation field, health sub-center and police post. There will be a
secondary school for groups of two to three villages and it is also expected
that upper secondary schools, a teachers' training college and a hospital
will be added. There will also be a full range of public services and
utilities, including water supplies, sanitation systems, power, telecommuni-
cations, and government administration in support of planned development.
9.        Full development of the Triangle as specified in the 'Master Plan
was estimated to require a capital expenditure of about M$ 345 million
(USS115 million) of which FELDA's share would be about M$ 240 million
(US$80 million). Experience on the first two stages indicates that actual
expenditure should approximate to these estimates.



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
-AGRCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
fYFARS          N/2l                                q                                                   1974                                                  1975                                 OK
ACREAGE N DJ F M  A M  J J A SON  D  J F M   A MJ  J A SON  D J FM  AM                                                                                       J J A SON  D. FJ                        M
JENKA   1; (PALMOS
EE I Ut    N G-          !     -       m    n                                                                                       _ _     _   _    __                      __             _     __                       _
Fl A~JTiNG      4.040
JENGK; lb IURHERM
Pi ANTING             4,288                                                                                            ____           ___                                     ___        ____
JENGIKA L7 ;PAi.MSL
FELLING                  4,l74  ,-                                     .1                       111]~~-                                                                                   -.- 
PLNTINGi               4.288
_JIENGKA 18_IPALMS)
_  _L IN                17                                              j                                                                                                                     _    _-5_        _   . - -   -    
PLf]ANTILG__       _    4,852
JFN%GKA 193 TALIJIG
FELL ING              4,9961
Fl ANTING       ~~~4,6212                                                                                                                    ___
.IE,NGKA 20 (RUJ~L;C,                             -      ..___-___-
FEI LING              4.63/                                                                            _____                                     u     I l       n
PLANT ING             4,349                            _ __ _ __                                          _  _   -_ _ _ _ _
JENtGKA 21 (R~U[RIIEHI      -       -------                                                                ---- -.-                                     __                                    -___         ___
FL LING             4j,b2
P LA NT1I NG          4,235
JENGKA 22 18H1J861E_____
F ELLI- NtG           4,U13 /       _ _ _ _      -  -  -        - -  -  -   _ _ _           -   .                         -  .    -   _ _ _ -   I, J Ll  l-m
__L:Ai%  1NG            4,3249                                                              ___
JENGKA 23 WIAIMSI                                                                                                                                   ____ 
FELLING              -4.836                                                                                                                                                                                                    LiIIIJ
Pl AN TIING           4_ _ _  _ _   _ __  _  _     _ _  _  _   _  _  _ _     _ _44        _ _  _  _                                         _    _  _ _  _.
(FELLING,                                            OTHIER WORK                                            PLANTING
Wo,'d 8.,~k --6923



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ROAD CONSTRUC'T'IOIN
(miles)
Total
Project Schemes            Length    1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
Primary Roads                 _
North South Road             16                   4 h      6         3         3
Secondary Roads
Access Road
to Scheme 15                          -        ½         - _       _         _
"'   "    16                        -         ½         - _       _         _
"   "    17                2        -         -         -         2         -
"   "    18           2         -         -         2        -         -
tt  tl   19                ½        -         -         ½         -         -         -         -         -
"   "  21, 22, & 23      11         -         -         -        5-½2- 51
Village Roads
Scheme 15                   7         -        -       7(E)      7(S)        -         _
"1   16                  7         -         -       7(E)      7(S)        -         _
"    17                  7         -         -       7(E)      7(S)        -         _
"    18                  7         -         -         -       7(E)      7(S)        -
19                  7         -         -         -      7(E)      7(S)        _
20                  7         -         -         -      7(E)      7(S)        -
"t   21                  7         -         -         -                 7(E)      7(S)
22                  7         -         -         -        -       7(E)      7(S)
23                  7         -         -         -        -       7(E)      7(S)
(E) - Earthworks
(S) - Surfacing
October 12, 1972



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA T RIANGLE PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
SCIIEME                           ~~~~~~~~1973                                1974                                       1975                                       1976                             1977
YEAR                 J FM  A MJ J AS     N D J FM  A MJ J AS    N D  J FM  A M J J AS     N D J FM  A MJ J AS  O ND  J FM  AM J
JENGKA 15&16
ACCESS ROAD                                                 km_                 -___                                          __- 1___                                              ---_
VILLAUt7 ROAD                                                                     ILI11 I 111111  1111W   11111 I11   1'HI1UI~--                                                                              __   ___
WATER SUPPLY                                                    m          -          ---_ _                                                           -                            --- 
S_ETTL.ER HOUSES                                                                                                                  -        -------______
STAFF   QUARTERS             ____                   ____E                                                     R_____                     ____
JENGKA 17.18.19_
ALCCESS ROAD--                                                                                                                                                                               -__
VILLAGE ROAD-                                                                                                _       111llhtP1111                   1l111UiiiUlu]f
SETTLERl HOUSES_-                                                                                                                                     -                                                                _
STAFF  QUARTERS____                    --____                                                                                              u    .t                  .
JENGKA 7072122.23-                                                            -                                                       j-    ___  --___
ACCESS  ROAD                                                                                                                  _ _N-----                                                       ------ 
VILLAGE ROAD                            ---   -Amiiu    lihi   uu    au   um
WA4TER SUPI-TLY___--                                                                                                                                                                   --                    ~     _
STAFF QUARIlERS                                                                                                                                                                 IL ____  J
.-k6924



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
I-ALAYS IA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
The Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (.NARDI)
Background
1.        Until 1967 the main agricultural research activities in Malaysia
were largely restricted to rubber (RRI and private companies) and to oil
palms (private companies). In 1967 proposals were made to Government to
create specialized autonomous public research entities for oil palms and
for animal production. To avoid the inevitable future proliferation of
uncoordinated research activities if specialized agencies were established
on an ad hoc basis Government created MARDI in 1969 as an autonomous, statutory
organization within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MAC), and made it responsible for all research on crops (with
the exception of rubber), livestock and fresh water fisheries. M4ARDI began
its operations in early 1971.
Organization
2.        MARDI has a Board of 11 members, of which 4 represent Government
and 5 the private sector. The Board is responsible for policy matters and
for the approval of the annual budgets. A Scientific Council of 12 members,
including 2 private sector representatives is responsible for guidance on
technical matters and on program organization. 1/ MARDI's director is
assisted by two deputies and one assistant director, who are in charge of
three departments respectively: Research, Administration and Special
Duties (Chart).
Functions
3.        MARDI's functions defined by its statutes are:
(a)  to conduct scientific, technical, economic and sociological
research in Malaysia wi.h respect to the production, utiliza-
tion and processing of all crops (except rubber), livestock
and fresh water fisheries.
(b) To serve as a centre for the collection and dissemination of
information and advice on scientific, technical and economic
1/   At present members are officials of the Agricultural College, MAC,
Economic and Planning Unit, the Faculties of Science and of Agriculture
at the University of Malaysia, RRI, Smallholders Advisory Services; and
two private companies, Harrisons Crosfields and Monsanto Chemical.



ANIE X 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
matters concerning agricultural industry, including the
publication of reports, periodicals and papers relating thereto.
(c) To act as a center for slpecialist extension service in the
agricultural industry.
(d) To advise on the training of workers for scientific and
technical research and extension.
(e) To provide grants in aid for the purpose of pure and applied
scientific, technical and economic research concerning agri-
cultural industry.
(f) To maintain liaison with other organizations, both public
and private, indigenous and foreign which are engaged in
scientific, technical and economic and sociological research
concerning the agricultural industry.
Management and Operations
4.        MARDI's initial staff and research facilities were provided by
the M4inistry of Agriculture and Cooperatives early in 1971. Staff numbered
259 at the end of 1971 (Table). Recruitment has continued up to the
present to fill vacancies mainly at the regional research stations (Maps 1
and 2), but a serious limitation has been the scarcity of qualified research
staff. This has led MARDI to support other public and private research
institutions which have the facilities to pursue specific projects, and to
send staff and trainees abroad for further training.
5.        MARDI has coordinated oil palms research with private companies
and with FELDA. It is also investigating the possibility of coordinating
research and experimentation on beef and dairy production with the National
Livestock Board and with FELDA. Its research on paddy has resulted already
in the introduction of new and improved varieties and improved fertilizer
use in the Muda and Kemubu irrigation areas. Other important research is
being conducted on cocoa and coconuts (in coordination with FELDA), on
pineapples, and on fresh water fisheries.
6.        Most of the above research activities were transferred from the
Agriculture Department of MAC. As these were conducted on an ad hoc basis,
often depending on the availability of foreign aid for specific projects,
the introduction of a research policy and better coordination and consolidation
of activities is required at present.
Finances
7.        Most of the financing of tARDI is contributed by Government through
budgetary appropriations. MARDI's development program calls for an expendi-
ture of M$ 30 million from 1971 to 1975. Cash allocations have been made
in 1971 and 1972 as programmed and no financial problems are envisaged for the
future.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 3
Future Prospects
8.        MARDI has been created and entrusted by Government with the ultimate
responsibility for carrying out agricultural research in Malaysia. It has
been staffed and financed by Government as generously as conditions have
permitted. The present task is one of setting priorities for future action,
concentrating resources on achieving the most important goals, identifying
more specifically existing constraints and taking steps to remove them.
The study proposed under the project would have a major role to play in the
achievement of these goals.
September 21, 1972






ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for a Study of MARDI
1.        A thorough review of MARDI is considered essential in order to
rationalize the scope and implementation of its medium-term work program.
A team of experienced agricultural research experts would be engaged to
carry out such a study in 1973/74. The members of such a team should be
capable of covering the full spectrum of agricultural research including
crops, livestock, processing technology and economics. Specific attention
would be given to:
(a) determining the priorities for MARDI's future research programs
taking account of the needs of Malaysia's agricultural develop-
ment program and the role that is likely to be played by the
private sector;
(b) having diagnosed the main objectives of the research program
and its financial implications, make an assessment of any
existing and possible future constraints that will need to
be overcome if such a program is to be successfully implemented.
This would include examining the availability of experienced
research staff capable of directing programs of work and
identifying problem areas;
(c) assisting in the identification and preparation of research
projects for outside financing; and
(d) the preparation of a development project for MARDI should
this be necessary.
September 21, 1972



I



MALAYLSIA                             ANNEX8
1. able
THIRD JENOKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
MARDI STAFF (December 1971)
Post                                        Total 
Director
D_zutv Director                                           1
r,ssistant Director                                       1
Principal Rese=rc:n O-fficers                             4
S_.ior   seerc  Offictr5                                  2
R<_ s &rc:l v' - f *.cers                                14
A,ssis.r.t/Tzssociate Research Cfficers                  39
Total        52
T ECHNICL ST;.FP
Post                                        Total
Research r.ssistants                                     46
Junior Research !..ssistanzs                             77
Field izs,istants                                        26
Lub0 1ittandants                                          8
Total       157
ADi ;I5 .T '.TI'E/ 3TI!F?
Post                                        Total
Senior tkdminit-rative Offic2rs                           2
Clerical Officers                                        17
Stenos                                                    5
Typists                                                  12
I,ssistant Librarian                                      1
,hdmin.ittrative ,ssistants                               3
40
October 12, 1972



I



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
RESEARCH STATTONS SHIFTED F1.0. ITE  DIVISIO,N
CF ;UrICJtr,-RE If ;7 .N EA.RU II 1971
r \
I -
RI2Cc. 9.4SE.,;sCH UN-I'T'>     
7, -' 0,' Lan4   LIib (50- acres)      
I~~~~~~~~~~~
*   X   ,  _ '                            I              \~I 
t~~ -'                               ; 
\ , ; RE ;;uRCH STA.TION
\   Z                     \<          C~~~~~~~~~~~ J JG-,.U (6C0 acres)
RICE RE5EY,5(DrC  ST-i-!C.l  
MECLj'IjIS.TION - P.'RI'L  (  60 acres)
C CAMEROPI HIG}aNDS
\ ST.TI-N (1220 acres)
-8 /                          \. RESEARCH1 STATION
;  SUNG5I BI.GING
V_ P.DI STA;TIO6N\\                              (120 acres)
\TA'uNJO.!G KC-R-.R'G (40 acres)
X-9E.RCH CENTRE
C   5:R,z;-  ice  
S-TO
JA;, :-.;E3 UN (160 acres)- N_
\~~       ~~             ~ '-         --f ___.
~/               /                           S - 
, o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/N 



MALA YS IA                       .ea,c 2
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
RESEARC'Li STATICN3 VLHICH   LL BR. DE\'BCEI.Z.
w  ~.. - - _ DURING TIM SECOD MiALAYSIA PL,AN 1971-1975
s~~~~~~~~~~~~
;X\ ' (to bed expanded )
S                  / B  I               \
\            /                     \                \/
'I             I ,          ,                                        %R
\  V''"  -                           /, 
B!J1'¶BONG 'LINAGs ( 1 ,IQ     P,XH      .JH   TEG
- N  ' ac (to bo expanded)    /
1- / v_    AX.-
\IS                             X~~~~~~~
~~               acres~~                ST."IO.NB
MAR~~I\ HJOHOR JA;NE,S
/~ ~~ aces        (2           00ac



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRLILE PROJET
MARDI ORG,, NISATIONAL STPUCTIJREZ
SCIENTIFIC CCUNCIL      F.        -  GOVERNING BOARD
-__ ~ - 
DIPECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                               ASSISTAWNT DIRECrOR                       DEPUTY DIRECTOR
I                                                I                                    I~~
RESEARCH                                     SPECIAL DUTIES                         ADMINI STiRTICN
CRCP Ir;PROVENENT                                . EXTENSION SPECI.IST SERVICES                . PERSONNEL
J AWfl1 L Il iPROVLEtiNT                         * INFORM;TION                                . BUDGET
SOILS, WATER & ENGINEERING                       - RESEARCH FACILITIES                          r ACCOUNTS & FISCAL
'CROj PROTFCTION                 I              LIBR;RY                                         GENERAL SERVICF-S
E.CONOM4IC & STATISTICS
.                                                              .  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c+ 
.cX



I



ANNEX 9
MALAYSIA
THIfRD JBJGXA Tr ANGLE PROJECT
PiOJ6SCT COS3T
("' 000)
Yeatrs    1973       1974        1975        1976         1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982         Total
igricul-.ural Dev lopmentToa
Total
Lsctc _e crm  clnd p_jntin7
(c.ntraztorz)                      1,511       4, 907      6,995        5,251       1,388          91                                                       20,142
rertil; 1zers and pesticides                       173          624       1,i068      1,207         963         588          434         420         42        5,719
Plantiag materials                                 578        1,244       1,28B         208          44           4                                            3,366
Acrczulturs! rzad ipgradinr,                                     81         591       1,265         354                                                        2,191
Su--:teaze credits                                                           53         188         170         166          223         377                   1,177
agr-oulturai .ievelpfert
.xr-:dil.tnes si                                   59         671       1,847       2,871       2,666       1,552          920         754         74       11,414
L-vi ;etock
3ust,L r                   1,51       5,717       9,615       10,298       7,07       4,288       2,310       1,517       1,577         116       44,'9
' . . :' esrirsa,                19         159          256         290          33                                                                      757
douse ccsr'r:c-                                    362       1,383        2,116       1,744         427                                                        5,732
19         521.      3,639       2,406       1,777          127                                                       6,489
lair, .c: .:                                                    68.       3,  9         934       2,682         179                                            7,973
cu     S                                                                                             2 91                                                       194
S_rszc                                               8dz        3,tOl        '934       2,772         179                                            8, 167
e -            J:                        .          84          1J5        liC          153         145          5°          75          125         62          9B9
193         419         591         256          31                                                        1,495
55 ,_as '3 rDvZLe'-3 :' .... .   ...        ....        ....      .. cso'-  31  315  665  1.112  1,232  1,31i  1,322  1,326     1,339       1,347        9,995
9e        597        1,219       1, 80       1,641        1,492       1,371       1,401       1,464      1,409       12,479
Us roa z' 30 et;21  K _xeGTtSSes
90       1,900       2,520       2,.'1C        300                                                                    7,720
:1ater napeipdSs                       040         720        1,220       1,200         700         400                                                        4,500
-c vsIl2raetr-.tura J:                                         666       1,145       1,478         400         400                                            4,087
itud:es                                                                                                                                     73    _ 12           225
Sobtct.12                  2,113       2,772       4,406        4,565       2,478         800         400                                           16,534
Continges ses - pSysyal / a14                      48L)         886       I,2C5         693         47l         213         14e          151         77        4,387
- price 5'               ,!          793       2,264        3,989       3,1624      2.730       1,466       1,181       1,376         929       18,008
Suntotal                     ,_        1.273       3.150        5,114       3.857       3.204       1,679       1.329        1.527      1.006       22,395
r       rta rer '                     ,_;.;     40,88_      20,909      27,580       :7,71L      12,683       5,940       4,280       4,568       2,531      110,Q73
2.4'0 1oar.r 1i',                      414         724       1,395        2,386       3264       3,912        4,379                                           16,476
38114D lOAl                          3,394  _   11,604      22,304       29,976      20,978      16,595      10,319       4,280       4,568       2,531      126,549
1.  76.4 oar t:canomn,r wool, 2c,r t a:    se,en: years of oro3ect implementat o' only.
-    scr Costa c.S *.ocer  e'ova, ws^, m.anurxi4g, pestic;de  _pp':-ations  as well as road, tarracc ad drain maintenance
ioss9  c . A-aexes 18, r-ale ., arc  -;  -l'.e 1).
,,  Prt-rna' srscs, mnd-:fd clinics, c,.ue4mity cencer. publ" padang, police pc3t, mosque.
4   SS per ar.
p.-  cnuar. ompocnaea for local costs ,r.d ns per a:num componnded far foreig. exchiange costs.
Febrw-y 22, 1973



ANNEX 10
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
PROJECTED IBRD LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDUIE
:IBRD Fiscal           Cumulative      Cumulative Disbursements       Total
'ear and             Disbursements    Against Capitalized Inte-  Cumulative
:uarter         ARainst Pro ect Costs rest & Commitment Charges Disbursements
(U $ '00)                  00(US$'0)      (US$1000)
l973
'une                       156                   14                   170
L1974
3eptember                   312                   14                  326
D[)ecember                  468                  74                   542
March                       624                   74                  698
June                     1,209                  306                 1,515
1975
September                1,794                  306                 2,100
December                 2,379                  578                 2,957
M'arch                    2,964                  578                3,542
June                     4,103                   826                4,929
:L9 76
..eDtember               5,242                  826                 6,o68
D)ecember                6,381                1,114                 7,495
Mlarch                    7,520                1,114                8,634
June                     8,980                1,633                10,613
::L.977
;3eptember              10,440                1,633                12,073
1)ecember                11,900               2,152                14,052
Mlarch                   13,360               2,152                15,512
qIune                    14,097               2,814                16,911
:1.978
September                14,834               2,814                17,648
1December               15,571                3,476                19,047
Mlarch                  16,308                3,476                19,784
Junw,.e                 16,819                4,260                21,079
:1979
h.entember              17,330                4,260                21,590
:December               17,841                5,044                22,885
March                    18,352               5,044                23,396
.June                   18,380                5,896                24,276
1980
September               18,392                5,896                24,288
D.ecember               18,424                6,322                24,746
1March                  18,450                6,322                24,772
.June                   18,500                6,500                25,000
Eebruary 22, 1973



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
FELDA Jengka Management
1.        The first two Jengka Triangle projects have been managed by a
separate Jengka Division within FELDA, which was created at the request of
the Bank to permit more autonomous, flexible and dynamic operational
direction and control of development. A director was appointed and reported
directly to a Jengka Management Committee, which comprised FELDAts
Chairman and Director General, representatives of the Finance, National and
Rural, and Public Works departments, of MARA and of the State of Pahang,
as well as the Jengka Division Director. The Committee was responsible for
policy decisions and for the implementation of the project agreements
between FELDA and the Bank. The Division comprised several sections,
including a progress and evaluation unit and was to be supplied with
supporting temporary FELDA staff as needed. Accounts for Jengka were to
be kept separate from those of FELDA's overall operations and audited by
separate external auditors, Peat, Merwick and Mitchell.
2.        The original plan, however, was never fulfilled because:  (a) the
post of Division Director remained vacant for some time and Jengka staff
was recruited very slowly and was largely inexperienced; this, combined with
(b) old procedures, kept decision making largely centralized in conditions
w.here headquarters was unable to cope with a rapidly expanding volume of
activities. These resulted in less than adequate private contractor
selection for land development, in slow payments to contractors; poor
coordination with the Public Works Department for infrastructure development
and with Pahang State for forestry exploitation, and poor field maintenance
and ffb collection. Agricultural development on the first Jengka project was
delayed by an average of six months and infrastructure development of the
first and second projects was delayed by about one year (paras 2.16 and 2.17
and Annexes 2 and 3). These delays, however, were not serious in themselves,
but pointed to the need for improved management standards in an area like
central Pahang, which was virgin and remote and therefore required more
attention than is customary for this kind of project.
3.        More recently, better coordination has been obtained with the
State of Pahang and wieth the regional office of the Public Works Department,
more careful selection from an enlarged body of available contractors has
been practiced, and contractor payments are being processed quickly. The
results of these measures are encouraging.
4.        As a result of the recently approved FELDA reorganization (Annex 4)
the Jengka Division has been turned into one of the six major FELDA field
offices and will be managed under the same system as the other five offices



ANNEX 11
Page 2
in the country, each with an area controller, and an average of one area
manager and an assistant for each 15,000 acres, one scheme manager for
each 4-5,000 acres, a field supervisor for each 1,000 acres and a field
assistant for every 400 acres of palms or rubber. The reorganization being
implemented should improve administration at headquarters and should permit
a progressive increase in operational autonomy to the field offices. A
new director (or area controller) has been designated for Jengka and
recruitment and training of staff has been improved and accelerated by
FELDA (Annex 4) which should permit strengthening area manager and assistant
manager ranks in Jengka. Physical conditions have also improved greatly
and this has made the area more appealing to would-be managers and supervisors.
5.        A specific area where improvement is needed is in ffb collection
and transport to the mills. This is now performed by contractors, under the
direction of the scheme manager. FELDA is investigating the possibility
of hiring better contractors and of introducing a pilot scheme of kulim
ffb pickup 1/ to be managed by FELDA directly.
Settlement Procedures
6.        These would be similar to those practiced under the first two
Jengka projects:
Settler Selection - FELDA schemes are intended mainly for
rural people wqho either possess no land or have insufficient
land to obtain an adequate standard of living. Selection of
Jengka settlers would continue to conform to this policy.
7.        The Federal Government stipulates that 20% of places in all FELDA
schemes will be available to ex-members of the security forces possessing
the minimum qualifications. In the case of the Jengka Project, the State
of Pahang requires that 50% of the settlers (others than ex-servicemen)
should be from the State of Pahang, provided they possess the minimum
qualifications.
8.        Selection is in two stages.  First, applicants are interviewed
in their home districts throughout Malaysia by FELDA staff and local officials
who know the district and its people. At this stage the candidates' general
suitability is determined and the basic minimum criteria for selection
applied.  These are that the candidate:
-    is a Malaysian citizen;
-    is married;
-    has no serious criminal record;
-    is physically and mentally fit'
1,/  Involving the use of nets and trunk winches for ffb.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
is prepared to abide by the rules and regulations established
by FELDA;
has less than two acres of land; and
-    is over 18 and under 35 (formerly over 21 and under 45).
9.        Following the interview, points are awarded to each candidate,
up to a maximum of 30, on the following scales:
(A)  Age    Points      Age    Points               Point
18        5        24       .10       30          6
19        6        25        10        31         5
20         7       26        10        32          4
21        8        27         9        33          3
22        9        28         8        34          2
23       10        2(;        7        35          1
Those under 18 and over 35 will be disqualified, except for ex-servicemen
and police, who qualify up to 40 years of age.
(B)  Number of                     Ownership
Children        Points         of Land         Points
5 and above        5          Under 1/2 acre      5
4             3          1/2 acre            4
2             2          1 acre              3
1             1         1-1/2 acres          2
0             0          2 acres             1
(C)  Bonus Points - Agricultural Background             Points
Rubber                                         6
Oil Palm                                       6
Dusun or vegetable cultivation                  1
Animal husbandry                                1
10.       The final selection is made by FELDA Headquarters on the above
points system and on the required allotment of places to servicemen.
11.       Development Period - On arrival at a scheme - some 2 years after
clearing - the settler signs the first part of the settlers' agreement.
This provides that in return for being permitted to settle on the scheme,
the settler works under the direction of FELDA on the development of the
scheme.  The settler is paid a minimum of M$ 2.90 per day, about M$ 70 a
month, for his work and if no work is available, he receives a subsistence
loan at the same rate. The settler is required to abide by all rales and
regulations of the Authority and if he breaks them, or if he is considered
unsuitable in conduct or behavior, he may be required to leave the scheme.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
12.       Post Development - At the end of the 5th year after palm planting
and the 6th year after rubber planting the settler, assuming his performance
is satisfactory, signs the second part of his agreement - the Supplement
Agreement. This changes the status of the settler from, in effect an
employee of the Authority to that of a smallholder. He is registered as an
occupier in expectation of title of approximately 10 acres of rubber or oil
palm and a 1/4 acre house lot. In the case of rubber, the settler is
allotted a specific area but in the case of oil palm, because it is not
practical to cultivate oil palms initially as smallholdings, he is not
allocated a specific area, but put together in groups of 20 to maintain and
harvest 200 acre blocks. Once the settler has paid off his loan (Annexes 12
and 13) the Authority will recommend to the State Government that the State
alienate to the settler, in the case of rubber, the 10 acre rubber area
and 1/4 acre house lot, and in the case of oil palm the 1/4 house lot, on
a 99-year lease. The 10 acre oil palm area will be alienated to a cooperative
society of which the settler is a member. In the case of Jengka, however,
it is provided that after five years of production, the oil palm settler
would be allotted a specific 10 acre lot and he would then choose whether
to work his lot individually or participate in working on a number of lots
cn a cooperative basis.
13.       During the period when any loan repayments or charges are due
by the settler to FELDA or the State, the area is managed and administered
by FELDA. At all times the settler is required to sell all latex or ffb
to factories or mills specified by FELDA for which he shall receive the
average price received by FELDA (during the current month for rubber but
over the preceding three months for palm oil) after deducting transport,
processing, distribution, mill amortization, etc. In the case of oil palm,
further deductions are made for upkeep costs and a replanting reserve
fund (Annex 18, Table 5); for rubber the upkeep costs are borne directly
by the settler and a replanting reserve cess is recovered at export (Annex
19, Table 4).
14.       Under the First Jengka Project Loan 533-MA, it was also provided
that Jengka settlers would bear the project headquarters and scheme manage-
ments costs during the development and operating periods. This arrangement
has since been altered and FELDA and the Government have introduced new
arrangements to recover FELDA's administration costs from settlers. The
apiounts of thte levy for 10-acre oil palm and rubber holdings is shown in
the Table.
15.       Settlers Loans - A loan account would be opened for each settler
vthich would be charged with the cost of his house, including clearing
the house lot and of developing 10 acres of oil palms or his specific
10-acre rubber lot.  At the end of the fifth year after oil palm planting
and the sixth year after rubber planting, settlers would be issued with a
statement showing the amount of the loan and the repayment due. The
statements would also include any loans for subsistence, tools, etc.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
16.       Interest would be charged at 6-1/4% on the loan and would be
capitalized over the development period. This is lower than commercial
rates and it reflects Government's desire to provide settlers with
reasonable income opportunities.
17.       Loans would be repaid by equal annual installments of principal
and interest over a period of 15 years commencing on the first day of the
sixth year after palm planting and the seventh year after rubber planting.
However, during the first two years of repayment on rubber schemes, loan
deductions shall be made only in small amounts as will leave the settler
with a monthly income of M$ 100. Loan repayments would be deducted at source
from payments made by the FELDA-ow.ed and operated mills and rubber factories
to settlers for their production. The costs of fertilizers and other inputs
would also be recovered in this way.



I                         I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



MALAYSI
SECOND JW:iC-^kM UINGLE PROJECT
KM'>I^T3G`.ln-T "`ll>T5l-a F07 104CRE HOLMN0,13
Average          Yinagement        Yan.agemen't            r-
PA-C  z!e L-el    Lncomir ln-re-se3,    ALn;mwal rz  Incm       E~ZPte:,y_  tount                In:).,-mr - "Cf-mAe
0J. .Palm
0Oi1 l Price
0.'5 s,fto-i IVOB)  (2S/tcn FFB)        ,     (M$)            (Y$/ton FFB)          (Y,$) rt
i!q5                 3                  3,3s65-58              1              88.86             31777ie74
t r-/& w59 6 ~~~~~h 4131                    52                      177 *72 5}9/5}ll
>0   ~9                          41399.74s                            2-6b.58            IS3 L?-6
t;3)4.'5. ~12                         . PU56¢32                           355g)              .n3iCdi
Jit 9. " 2            ih ,932.*90                                5             444*                b> ,lor 
51J14 .23                                 5 !3  51°92.48         6             533-1.6             h8z3
52'-g332                                  5.G16.o6               7             622.02              i<-1'.3'
5.t!s -4              24                  5- 7'2.64              8              71-0,88            5,OK. 76
13-5                27                  5599.22979.451.8
564.02                28.02               6,o8g.85               9.34           829.95             5;25S'.90
Pi.5S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  r c
3t;sSl PD3) (m certsJl-b)($)                         (M c=rts/lb)                    (11) t$)
6i5 * h1   ~~~~~~~~~~ 3., 600 etS0                                                     ;  6,- e rfl0
7CI - 30              3                  4 b 313 l40            1             1237 *80            3; 3 71 5~ 
72s ''8               6                  b,426.8o)              2              275.6o             4$l; -3i
75-47                 9                  4,f340,2               3              413.40             4t2.0         Ss
MO*l . 6 1~~~~~~52. 53,6o                     )       4             551.20 V72 / 
o55.05               15                  5;, 6-167 * 00         5              6 8 9. o  o- 
9i0-C5               18:                 6   ?)1^               6              832li.E0)£2.                       F'
October 12, 1972






ANNEX 12
INALAYS IA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Oil Palm Settler's Legal Position
Year from Clearing              Legal Status          Loan Repayment
1                                    -      )   Loan amount increasing with
2)                                   -      )   various development expenditures.
3 )  Works under direction                  )
4)  of FELDA                                )
5)
6         Signs settler agreement, becomes
occupier in expectation of title
to individual ownership or to a
share in a large block of oil palms
in common with a group of other
settlers.
7         Loan repayment commences.         )
8/10      Continues as in Year 7-8.         )
11        During year, becomes occupier  )   Loan repayment continues.
in expectation of title to a )
specific 10 acre block of oil )
palms.                           )
12/21     Continues as in Year 11           )
22        Lease granted to settler by    )   Loan repayment terminates.
State.
September 21, 1972



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                         A 



ANN EX 13
MALAYS IA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Rubber Settler's Legal Position
Year from Clearing             Legal Status          Loan Repayment
1                                    -     )   Loan amount increasing with
2)                                   -     )   various development expenditures.
3 )  Works under direction                 )
4)  of FELDA                               )
5)                                         )
6)                                         )
7         Signs settler agreement, becomes )
occupier in expectation of         )
title to a specific 10 acre lot )
of rubber.                         )
8         Continues as in Year 7               Loan repayments commence.
9-22      Continues as in Year 7               Loan repayments continue.
23        Lease granted to settler by          Loan repayments terminate.
state government.
September 21, 1972



ANNEX 14
H4ALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Oil Palm Yield Estimates
FFB in                Oil in                 Kernel
Year from       Year of       tons per   % Oil    Tons per   % Kernel   in tons
Clearing  /1  Harvesting        acre      to FFB      Acre        to FFB    per acre
5             1             2.3        16        0.37        4.0         0.092
6             2             5.0        18        0.90        4.2        0.210
7             3             7.4        20        1.48        4.3        0.318
8             4             8.8        21        1.85        4.4        0.387
9             5             9.2        22        2.02        4.5        0.414
10             6             9.6         "        2.11         "         0.432
11             7            10.0        If        2.20          F        0.450
12             8            10.0        "l        2.20                   0.450
13             9             9.6                  2.11          F        0.432
14            10             9.4                  2.07         "         0.423
15            11             9.2         "        2.02         "         0.414
16            12             8.9         "        1.96         "         0.400
17            13             8.7                  1.91          I        0.391
18            14             8.5         F        1.87         "         0.382
19            15             8.3         F        1.83          F        0.373
20            16             8,1         "        1.78         "          0.364
21            17             7.9         F        1.74         it        .0.355
22            18             7.7         "        1.69         "          0.346
23            19             7.5                  1.65                    0.337
24            20             7.3                  1.61                    0.328
25            21             7.1        iF        1.56                   0.319
26-30            22-26          7.0         "        1.54                    0.315
/1   Planting takes place one year after clearing.
September 21, 1972



kNNEX 15
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENOKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Rubber Yield Estimates
Years from                                 Yield per acre
Clearing           Tapping Year              in Pounds
8                    1                       650
9                    2                     1,000
10                    3                     1,300
11                    4                     1,400
12-17                 5-10                  1,500
18-21                11-14                  1,750
22-25                15-18                  1,600
26-30                19-23                  1,800
31-32                24-25                  1,700
September 21, 1972



I



ANNEX 16
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Market Prospects for Palm Oil and Palm Kernels
World Oils and Fats Situation
1.        Oils and fats consist of vegetable oils (edible and industrial),
animal fats and marine oils.  Improvements in agricultural techniques as
well as in processing and refining techniques have resulted in increased
substitutability of the various oils and fats in the manufacture of end-
products. In addition, the development of synthetic products such as
detergents and synthetic alcohol has offered competition to products (mainly
non-food) containing oils and fats. Thus the complexity of the world market
situation does suggest that competitive pressure on the individual oils and
fats is likely to remain strong.
2.        World production of oils and fats increased at 2.7% yearly during
the 1960's while growth in world consumption was 2.9% yearly. Although
consumption was in excess of production in 1965 and 1966 - the reverse
position of the 1950's and early 1960's - stocks had reached a relatively high
level by the end of 1968. During 1969 and 1970, stocks were reduced when
world production of several leading vegetable oils was relatively low.
Although there are indications that stocks are rising, the end-1972 level is
expected to remain below the end-1968 level.
3.        During the past decade woirld exports of oils and fats increased
at 3.7% yearly while the vegetable oil group showed a higher yearly growth
at 4.2%. This expansion in trade could only be absorbed at declining world
prices as shown in Table 3. The level of international prices in 1970 and
during the first half of 1971 was abnormally high because of relatively low
crops in 1969 and 1970 in copra, groundnuts and fish oil and reduced exports
of sunflowerseed oil.  World production of oils and fats in 1971 compared
with 1970 showed the largest increase for a decade - about two million metric
tons. In 1972 total output is expected to increase by one million tons or
2.4% over 1971 due mainly to producer response to high prices for annual
edible oilseed crops, favourable weather after periods of drought and
continuing expansion of areas coming into higher yields (palm oil and palm
kernels). In contrast, output of industrial oils has been reduced owing to
the sharp fall in linseed production. Because of adequate stocks of linseed
and oil, exportable supplies will be more than adequate to meet expected
demand. This overall situation is reflected in the downward movement of
prices as shown in Table 3.
4.        Most important to world trade in oils and fats is the import
demand in the developed countries. They accounted for approximately three-
quarters of world net imports in 1970. Although Western Europe accounted



ANNEX 16
Page 2
for 60% of the world total, its rate of growth of import demand has
declined to 2% yearly in the last half of the 1960's compared with 2.5%
in the last half of the 1950's. This decline has been offset by a
substantial increase in Japanese demand (14% of net world import demand by
1970) resulting in continuing growth in demand in the developed countries.
On the other hand, as prices declined, import demand in the developing
countries was stimulated. Their share of world net imports increased from
13% in 1961-63 to 22% in 1970.
5.        Over the decade of the 1970's world production of oils and fats
is expected to increase at about 3% yearly. This will mean that the rate
of increase in export availabilities by 1980 will accelerate to 4.1% yearly
compared with 3.7% during the 1960's. If this expansion is to be met by an
equally large increase in import demand, mainly in developing countries
prices would have to move fairly sharply downward from the high levels of
recent years. In the process of achieving equilibrium it is assumed that
price will play an important role. Some downward adjustments in the
production targets of the various development schemes may take place and some
upward adjustments in consumption may be expected.
6.        To sum up, the world oils and fats situation by the mid-1970's
and on to 1980 is expected to be similar to the years 1962 and 1968 when
supplies were plentiful and prices relatively low (Table 3). Because it
will be essential fQr a number of individual oils to increase their share
of the total oils and fats market by 1975 and onward, prices fairly
comparable with or perhaps somewhat below the 1962 and 1968 levels seem
likely.
Palm Oil
7.        Palm oil is produced mainly in Nigeria, Malaysia, Zaire and
Indonesia. These four countries accounted for 75% of the world total in
1970 as shown in Table 1. During the 1960's output of palm oil increased
at 2.7% yearly. In recent years, however, the rate has accelerated and 1972
production is forecast at 2.3 million metric tons compared with 1.8 million
metric tons two years earlier. In a number of countries large oil palm
development schemes are in operation while some other areas are in the
process of being opened up for oil palm production.
8.        World production of palm oil in 1980 is expected to amount to
4.3 million metric tons, which is considered a conservative estimate. It
is the mid-point of a range from 3.8 to 5.0 million metric tons. The high
alternative assumes that all known planting schemes will be carried out
as currently planned to 1975; the low, that no more plantings will be carried
out in the first half of the seventies. The mid-point figure implies that
palm oil production will increase at 3.3% yearly over the decade of the
1970's compared with 3.0% for output of total oils and fats. As a result
palm oils' share of total oils and fats production will double from 1970
to 1980.
9.        Assuming that domestic consumption in the producing regions is
1.5 million metric tons by 1980, world export availabilities may amount



AiSI'EX 16
Page 3
to 2.8 million metric tons based on the mid-point production. This implies
that palm oil's share of the world oils and fats market will have to increase
from about 6% in 1970 to around 19% by 1980.
10.       The above-mentioned figures and those for palm kernels were
prepared by FAO. During the February 1972 session of the Intergovernmental
Group on Oilseeds, Oils and Fats the world figures, which were based on
individual country information compiled by FAO were considered at the meeting.
As a result of comments of Governments, they were revised in mid-April and
are included in this paper. FAO also prepared, in collaboration with various
international financing institutions, the amount of oil palm production
generated as a result of international project financing. As of November
1971, 546,000 metric tons of palm oil and 132,000 metric tons of palm kernels
in 1980 may be attributed to such financing.
11.       The Third Jengka Triangle Project would produce 32,000 tons of
palm in 1980 and reach its maximum of 49,000 tons in 1983. Bank Group
participation in total palm oil projects previously approved, amounts to
a production level of 333,000 tons by 1980. Wnen this project is added,
total production of palm oil generated by Bank financing amounts to about
365,000 metric tonis. Since most of the projects are export-oriented, around
12% of the world exports of palm oil in 1980 will result from Bank financed
projects.  Since considerable share of the expansion attributed to Bank
financing was in any case included :In the national development plans of the
countries concerned, it is quite likely that a high proportion of the
365,000 metric tons of palm oil would have materialized even without Bank
financing.
12.       For the market to absorb this increased level of wqorld palm oil
exports, it is essential that palm oil's share in total usage of oils and
fats should increase substantially. This can only be achieved by palm oil
being relatively cheaper than other oils and fats and by exporting
countries providing a steady supply of quality oil. The Bank Economics
Department estimates therefore that the palm oil price will experience a
muclh greater than average decline when compared with most other vegetable
oils and settle around US$160 per ton c.i.f. Europe in real terms by 1980.
These estimates are in pre-devaluation US dollars and should therefore only
be considered as indicative of the long-term trend.
Palm Kernels
13.       World production of palm kernels in 1980 is expected to amount
to 1.6 million metric tons. As noted for palm oil, it is the mid-point
of a low estimate (1.5 million tons) and high estimated (1.8 million tons).
To achieve this figure the rate of growth of production over the decade
(1970 to 1980) would be 5.3% yearly whereas from 1960 to 1970 there was
an absolute decline of 90,000 metric tons as shown in Table 2.  Palm kernel's
(in oil equivalent) share of total output of all oils and fats in 1980 will



ANNEX 16
Page 4
be only 1.4%. The new varieties of oil palm being planted have a smaller
nut and higher proportion of pulp containing the palm oil which accounts
for the more rapid growth in palm oil production than for palm kernel.
14.       Assuming that world exports of palm kernels continue to account
for about 60% of world output, exports could reach approximately a million
metric tons (454,000 tons oil equivalent) in 1980. This implies that
palm kernel oil's share of the total oils and fats market by 1980 may be
about 3.0% compared with 3.6% in 1970.
15.       The project under consideration is expected to generate 8,000
metric tons of palm kernels in 1980. When this figure is added to the
amount already financed, production of kernels in 1980 from Bank financed
projects will be 89,000 metric tons. Assuming that about 75% of the output
is exported, approximately 7% of world exports of palm kernels in 1980 will
be accounted for by Bank projects.
16.       It is assumed that palm kernel prices will be in line with
other oils and fats prices over the long term. A price of E 50-55 per long
ton, c.i.f. Europe by 1980 seems likely for palm kernels. The
average 1972 price was E 47. It had dropped sharply from the unprecedented
high 1970 average level of E 71 under the pressure of the steep price
decline in the copra price. The vegetable oils from palm kernels and copra
are classified as lauric oils since they contain high lathering qualities
and fatty acids which the other edible vegetables do not. They are used
mainly for food products and contain a high degree of saturated fat. Their
use in non-food products (toilet soap and lauric alcohols) has declined due
to competition from synthetics in the last 10 years. However, it is
unlikely that the copra price will continue at its recent record low level
for too long a period since this price is approaching the level at which
there is little incentive to pick the coconuts unless economies in
production-costs can be achieved.
February 23, 1973



ANNEX 1 6
Table I
MAI,AYS IATal1
THIRD tJEN1(KA TRIANGLE PROJECT
WORLD PEODUCTION AND EXPORT OF PAIM OIL
(Thousaznd mctric tons)
Forecast
1960-0L   l ,9(6-69.       1970    1971 a   1972
Production
Indonesia                 147        176   .       215      225      2L5
Malaysia                  255        417            429     589      780
CamIeroon                  39         48             54      56       4O
Dahoney                    39         35             45      47       50
Ivory Coast                23         31             50      67       85
Nigeria                   4°8        h32            508     500      600
Sierra Leone               35         42             53      60       52
Zaire                     224       200             180     200      250
Colorbia                    1         10             26      3h       4o
All otQhers                47         30            210     215      138
Wlorld                1,308     1,LJ21         1,770   1,993   2,280
Exmorts, I'_t
Indonesia                 109        1L,2          155      170      190
M'alaysia                 103        220            398     555      750
Dahoney                    11         11             ill     15       15
Ivory Coast                 I          1            13       35      145
;Nigeria                  1148        65             25      25       26
Zaire                     11;8      1114           124      112.   112
All others                 21         28            31       38       42
'World                  541        581            760     95Cx  1,180
A Preliminary.
Source:  crluution and Trode Yearbooks, FA.Q and R.etrort of Third Session
of  Itr7cvrCvern.nenta1  Group on Oilseeds,
Oils ar.n  r'ats, C.-,?:G  72/11, February 1972, FAO , and revised
production figures for 1970 and 1971 submitted by FAO on May 44,
1972.
October 121, 11972



ANNEX 16
Table 2
MALLAYSIA
THIRD JENCKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
WO1LD PRODUCTION AND EXPORT OF PAIM KERIELB
(Thousand metric tons)
Forecast
Proanuctic.r of kernels
Indonesia                33         37             47       50      55
Malaysia                  514       91             92      1214    164
Carmeroon                34         47             45       47      47
Dahoney                  514        53              94      80      66
Ivor,.y Coast            14         23             19       23      34
NJigeria                 413       295             298     310     426
Sierra Leone             57        149              59      55      60
Zaire                   119         95            130      130     130
All others              268        303             176     185     21a
World               1,0o46       993             9-60  1i,004   1,223
- :-.T)rt; (Ci1 ecuivalent)
1:doncsia                16         16             22       24      214
Malaysia                 10         114            13       11      10
Carneroon                 7          9             12       11      11
Dahoriey                 25         22             27       28      28
Ivory Coast               6          6              9       11      16
Nigeria                 195        155            139      146     147
Sierra Leone             27         25             27       28      28
Zai re                   50         41             50       50      go
All others               55         46             37       34      34
World                 391        334            336      343     348
LI Preliminary.
Source:  Production and Trade Yearbooks., FAO and Renort of Third Session
of St^-tistical ES ib-:>cuo, Intergovernmental Group on Ujlseeds,
Oils and Fats, Cf2':O ' 72/11, February 1972  FAO  and   sed
production figures for 1970 and 1971 submitted by FAO on May 14,
1972.
October 12, 1972



ANNEX 17
Page 1
MALAYSIA
TlIIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
Natural Rubber: Trends and Outlook
1.        Production of natural rubber is highly concentrated in the South-
east and South Asia regions, but nearly all natural rubber produced is
consumed in non-producing developed countries. More than 90% of all exports
are shipped from four Asian countries - Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and
Ceylon - and Malaysia alone accounts for 45% of world exports.  The remainder
is exported by a group of some 15 minor exporting countries. The two
biggest producers, Malaysia and Indonesia, are heavily dependent on rubber
as a source of income, employment and foreign exchange earnings. The share
of rubber exports in foreign exchange earnings for these countries is
around 35%0 and 45%, respectively.  Rubber accounts for around 11% of
export earnings in Thailand and is concentrated in the southern part of
the country; for this region, too, rubber provides the main source of income
and enployment. In Ceylon rubber is the second biggest export, accounting
for around 22% of the export earnings. More detailed statistical inform-
ation is given in the tables.,
World Demand Prospects
2.        During the postwar period the world market for elastomers, that
is, synthetic as well as natural rubbers, expanded at an average rate of
about 6% per annum, with a slower expansion in consumption in the major
consuming countries (the United States and the United Kingdom) being
offset by an above-average rate of growth in all other countries. However,
the overall buoyant demand for elastomers was associated with a slow growth
of natural rubber supplies (2.6% per annum between 1950-52 and 1969) but
a rapidly rising supply of synthetic rubber (about 10% per annum). Con-
sequently the share of natural rubber in the market for new rubber outside
the centrally planned countries declined from 65% in 1950-52 to around 32%
ln recent years. The share of natural rubber in the United States, where the
synthetic rubber industry was established during World War II for strategic
reasons, has dropped to 23% compared to 44% in 1950-52. In most other
countries, natural rubber's share in the demand for elastomers falls in the
range of 40 to 50%.
3.        A considerable shift in the geographic distribution of import
demand for natural rubber was also experienced in the postwar period. The
combined share in consumption of the United States and the United Kingdom,
the two largest consumers of rubber in the early 1950's, dropped from 55%
in 1950-52 to 35% in 1969. Meanwhile, consumption in Japan, the EEC and
the centrally planned countries rose rapidly and now accounts for half of
the total.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        It has been observed that the growth of industrial output and the
growth of elastomer consumption in major consuming countries, as well as
for the world as a whole, are very closely associated. This is explained
by the fact that the single most important source of demand for elastomers
is vehicular transportation which, in turn, is highly correlated with the
growth of industrial output. Approximately 50% of all elastomers is
utilized in the production of tires and tire products.
5.        The results of the regression on 1951-69 data showed that 98%
of the variation in elastomer consumption outside the centrally planned
countries was explained by the growth in industrial production and that,
on an average, 1% increase in industrial production was associated with
1.13% increase in the demand for elastomers (Chart 1). Similar relation-
ships have been observed to hold also for certain individual consuming
countries, such as the United States, the EEC and Japan.
6.        The Table in para 8 presents a view of the probable course of
world demand for elastomers to 1980, which is based on the above relationship
between the growth in rubber consumption and industrial output. On the
basis of projections of the GNP and industrial output in OECD countries,
world consumption of elastomers outside the centrally planned countries is
expected to reach a level of 9.2 million metric tons per year by 1975, and
12.2 million tons in 1980. In addition, net imports of natural rubber into
the centrally planned countries are projected to reach 800,000 metric tons
in 1975 and 1 million tons in 1980.
WIorld Supply Prospects
7.        It is estimated that in the coming years output of natural rubber
will expand much more rapidly than has been the case in the past as new
plantings and replantings that were undertaken in the sixties come into
production. Detailed data on replantings, apart from a few individual
countries, are not available, but rough estimates of new plantings can be
more easily derived from the increase in rubber area. It is estimated that
the total world area under rubber increased from 11.5 million acres during
1958-62 to 13.5 million acres during 1963-68. Of the four largest producing
countries, only Thailand's area expanded at an above-average rate of 9.6%
per annum; 1/ the expansion in Malaysia was 2.5% and in Indonesia 1.3%, while
in Ceylon the rubber area actually declined.  For Malaysia and Ceylon
replanting was a more important factor in increasing output.  The expansion
in rubber area was largest in African countries, particularly Ivory Coast,
Liberia and Nigeria,
8.        There are at present considerable differences in the yields
achieved in different producing countries. Such differences to some extent
are due to climatic and soil factors but the large discrepancies among
producing countries are mainly the result of slow and inadequate replanting
1/   Recent data compiled by the Rubber Research Center of Thailand suggest
that the increase in the rubber area was even greater.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
rates in the past. There are as such very good prospects for expanding
production, without necessarily increasing the area under rubber, in the
lagging countries.
PROJECTIONS OF DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF NATURAL RUBBER
(thousand metric tons)
Actual                     Proj ections
1964-66   1967   1968   1969   1970       1975   1980
Production          2,437   2,487  2,632  2,885  2,898    3,900  4,800
Exports to
centrally planned
countries            556      584    709    752    706        800  1,000
Supplies to market
economies          1,881    ,903  1,923  2,133  2,192    3,100  3,800
Market economies
consumption of
all rubbers        4,846   5,240  6,014  6,550  6,750    9,200 12,200
Share of natural
rubber in market
economies             38.8    36.3   32.0   32.6   31.5        33.7   31.1
Source: International Rubber Study Group and Trade Policies and Export
Projections Division, Economics Department, IBRD.
9.        The yields can certainly be increased by more extensive and
effective use of fertilizers and other improved cultivation practices,
but the most important source for the increase in output in future is ex-
pected to be replanting rubber areas under seedling rubber with high yielding
clones through vegetative propagation. The realization of yields up to a
level of 2,000 pounds per acre are considered to be quite practicable in
a number of countries and, in Malaysia, which has led the way in research
and development, the yields could conceivably be higher.  Under experimental
conditions, new varieties of clones have yields up to 6,000 pounds of
rubber per acre in that country.
10.       As far as increasing the yield from the already existing trees is
concerned, a very promising yield stimulant known as Ethrel has recently
been developed. 1/ Extensive experiments to test the effect of this chemical
1/   Ethrel is a brand name for a chemical manufactured by a U.S. firm,
which acts as a decongulant, that is, it increases the flow of latex
from the tree by slowing down the process of coagulation. At the
Rubber Research Institute of Malaya experiments have been carried out
on Panels C and D (i.e., trees after 15 years of tapping) in the last
few years, but no ill effects have been noticed so far. See P.D. Abrahams,
"Field Trials with Ethrel", RRIM Planters' Conference, July 1970.



ANNEX 17
Page 4
have been carried out in the last few years by the Rubber Research Institute
of Malaysia and elsewhere. Recent experiments have shown that yields can
be increased by 40-100%, particularly if the chemical is applied to older,
but well-looked-after trees. Ethrel has the advantage of easy application
to the tree, but its cost, amounting to about US$13 per acre, is considered
rather high for extensive use by smallholders.
11.       Because of the possibility of lower cost of production,
replanting with high yielding material is expected to be the most important
factor in enabling natural rubber producers to remain competitive with the
producers of synthetic rubbers. Past experience shows that the decline
in natural rubber prices in the postwar period was most easily accommodated
by the producers with the highest yields per acre. With the latest
varieties of clones and agricultural techniques, it would be possible for
natural rubber producers to remain competitive even with a further decline
in prices. 1/
12.       As a consequence of the above-mentioned technical advances, the
rate of expansion in natural rubber supplies is expected to be much greater
in the seventies that the rates observed in the past. The estimates
prepared by the International Rubber Study Group indicate that the growth
rate will exceed 6% per annum during the 1970-75 period and decline to
4.3% during the 1975-80 period. The reason for the relatively slow growth
toward the end of the seventies is that many of the technical advances are
expected to have borne their results by 1975.
13.       The Table in para 8 gives the indication of the course rubber
supplies are likely to take in the seventies. The output would reach 3.9
million tons in 1975 and 4.8 million tons in 1980 as compared to 2.9 million
tons in 1970. These estimates exclude the possible effect of an extensive
use of Ethrel which, if successfully applied, would probably add another
100,000 tons and 500,000 tons to the supplies in 1975 and 1980, respec-
tively. This unprecedented expansion in the rubber supplies would effec-
tively halt the declining share of natural rubber in the market of all
ielastomers. As indicated in the table, the share in recent years has
remained around 32%, but is expected to rise to;34% in 1975 but will decline
once again to 31% in 1980.
Price Outlook
14.       In view of the anticipated rapid expansion in natural rubber
supply in the current decade, natural rubber is expected to face a more
vigorous competition from the synthetic substitutes, and its price as in
the past would be influenced by the expected development in the synthetic
industry. The disposal of large additional supplies in the market would
obviously necessitate maintaining natural rubber prices competitive with
the prices of synthetic substitutes.
'! cf., IBRD, Efficiency in Resource Allocation, The Case of Natural
Rubber, EC-179, July 13, 1971.



ANNEX 17
Page 5
15.       The major development foreseen in synthetic rubber by the mid-
seventies is a decline in the cost of the butadiene-based synthetic rub-
bers, polybutadiene (PB) and styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR), as the price
of their major raw material input falls. This is based on an anticipated
change in the status of butadiene by that time from being a product pri-
marily produced for synthetic rubber conversion to a by-product of another
major chemical product, ethylene. Cost reduction in the raw material in-
put of polyisoprene (PI), which is the closest synthetic approximation to
natural rubber and hence competes most directly with it, may also result
from economies of scale in the manufacture of isoprene. The net effect
of technical improvements is expected to be such that the price of poly-
butadiene would decline to 15 cents per pound and that of polyisoprene to
18 cents per pound by 1975. (See Chart 2). The long-run price of natural
rubber (RSS 1 grade) is expected to be constrained by these limits and could
lie somewhere in the middle of this range. In particular, the cost price
of PI will serve as a ceiling, since protracted movements of natural rubber
above that ceiling would lead to an accelerated increase in polyisoprene
capacity. The projected price of natural rubber in 1971 dollars is there-
fore estimated to be about 17.0 cents (c.i.f. Europe) per pound for
RSS 1 grade in 1975.
16.       For the period 1975-85 - during which new and replanted natural
rubber installed after 1970 would be maturing - the price of natural rub-
ber in 1971 dollars would continue to be around 17.0 cents per pound. This
would depend on whether there have been substantial developments in synthetic
technology and whether this area of investment appears attractive to the
petrochemical industry. These estimates are in pre-devaluation US dollars
and should therefore only be considered as indicative of the long term
trend.
February 23, 1973



I
I
0



MALAYSIA
* H:RD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT                A
'4XV'UtRAL RBBER:  PROEJCTION BY RI0r:.S A1ND COUNTRIES kL1W ISI
OF RIONS AND) Cr;UQrrRIS X-ii )RLD TOTAL
y.'ar1lp
Production            Rate        Sliare irt 14z rld
ei.on/Country                                               of            Total _
I~~7T~~~Z8l~ 9o019     Ca       1955-5719&6~~o
;1,000  metric  tons.       to,o.o............)percentopoooo  so..
Deyeloped Countries            None     None    lions       Nonie    None     None    None
La%,c10p nigountries
Asia:
MNAlayaia                   705.4  1,032.2  1,267.9      3.5     36.4   L41.0      43.9
Indonesia                   7114.0    743.2   790.4    o.4       36.9     29.5     2?.4
Thailand                    135.0   226.7   281.8        4.8      7.0      9.0      9.8
Ceylon                       97.3    141.0   150.8    3.14        5.0      5.6      5.2
Vietnam                      68.7     39.7    26.2   - 4.9        3.5      1.6      0.9
Ca.jzbudia                   30.5    52.1    51.8        5.0      1.6      2.1      1.8
India                        23.6    61.5    80.0       9.1       1.2      2.4      2.8
Other Lsia 2/                19.6     24.2    214.8      1.9      1.0      1.0      0.9
Total Asia  -/ 1,7914.1  --2, 6 73                             92.7     92.2     92.7
Africa:
Liberia                      38.8     59.8     66.9 3/ 4.0        2.0      2.4       2.3
Nigeria                      36.6     58.3      56.8 I/  4.3      1.9      2.3       2.0
Clongo                       31.0    30.4      35.0 3/- 0.2       1.6      1.2      1.2
Others                        h.9  _21 2  _ 22.8 3/ 11.4          0.38               0.8
Total Africa              111.3    170.0   1i1i        3.9 5.8   67
tstin America:
Brazil                       23.0    22.8      24.0   - 0.1       1.2      0.9      0,8
Other Latin ._-rlca           6.1      7.0  __7.0        1.3      0.3      0.3      0.2
Total Latin Ar.erica       29.1     29.8    31.0      0.2       Il       1.2       o.0
Tota'. Deve100Ain 1,9,34.5  2,520.14  2,886.2               2.4             100.0    1 0.0
'World (=xcluding centrally
pi,Funed countries)         1,934.5  2,520.4  2,886.2    2.14   100.0   100.0    100.0
entrally Plannd Counvriea    None       None     None       None     None     Noie    None
Wlorld (including certrall7
planned countries)          1,934.5  2,520.14  2,886.2    2.14   1CC.O    100.0   100.0
1/ Excluding centrally planned coantries.
2/ Includes Oceania.
/ Net exports data have been taken because of non-ava4lability of production figures
for 1969.
.uree:  International Rubber Study Group (IRSG),  Rubber StatisticalsBLleti_n
var.ouz3 iscues.
FAO, Procaction Year1-ook. various issues.
October 12, 1972



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGIE PRO)JECT
'      M ALD T INATURAL RUBBhR EXPOCMT, EY.PORT VALUE, EC-CRT UNIr V'.iLE AJ3D M.d
YaLE kiic aXC    1955-571 9loC-62 XSiD 196--bS AV.~a:aiX              A=lCt1
Annual PNreent Chanpe
1955-57  1960-62  1966-6B    293-577-        1W/62-w
x ports
T,(00  metrlc tons)
World Total              1,852.0  2,060.3  2,390.0         2.2             t5
Doveloped Ccuntries      None     Hons     None           MO             VMone
Developir.C Countrie3 1,852.0  2,060.3  2,390.0          2.2             2.5
Aaia:?/              1$741.0  1,906.9  2,223.5         1.8              2.6
Malaysia            701.0    81a.1  1,076.7          3.7             b.1
Indonoaia           696.0    653.4   686.5          -1.3             0.8
Thailand            131.0   182.5   221.9            6.3             3.3
Ceylon               94.0    99.3   135.0            1.1             5.2
OtheraY             116.o   130.6   103.4            2.4            -3.8
Africa                 109.0   lh4.2    156.3          5.8             1.3
latin America            2.0      9.1    10.2         36.0             1.9
Centrally Planned
Countries             Nono      None    Nane           None            None
ExcorL Value
TUr.Saimon)
World Total              1,153.0  1,213.1   89bi.9         1.0            -4.9
Developed Ccunt.rie      o NNo Mono    None              None            None
DevelopinS Couwtries 1,253.0  1,213.1   894.9            1.0            -4.9
Asias2/              1,083.9  1,115.9   820.3          o.6             -5.0
HJalays'a            477.0   531.6   bi77.1          2.2            .2.9
Indonesia           397.0   336.2   186.0           -3.3            -9.1
ThMl-.-d          .  76.0   108.0       M4.1         t.3            -ha
Ceyl1ie.              66.0    62.9    59.7          -1.0            -0.9
Other"-'             67.9      77.2    .3,           2.6            .9.2
A4rica                  67.9    59.1    66.8           5.6            -4.8
Latin America.           1.2      8.1      7.8        47.0            -0.7
CentralJly PlarLned
Countries             None      Wot1a     None         None            None
FP4ort Unit v-.uc
U.S. conc Fhper kilo-
gran)
World Total                 62.3     58.9      37.4       -1.2            -7.3
Malty-ia                 68.0     63.2      Il1.5      -1.5            -6.8
Ceylon                    70.2     63.3      32.1       -2.1           -10.7
Thailand                  56.7    59.1       37.9        0.9            -7.1
Indonesia                57.0      51.h      27.1       -2.1           -10.2
Africa                    62.3    61.7       42.7       -0.2            -6.0
New York Prier:3
TOMS. ceat3 Fpr kilo-
gram)
RSS 1                     76.76    70.71    146.29      -1.7            -6.9
X53 3                     ?5.27    69.6o    b4.75       -1.6            -6.?
3 Bro'm                  65.0a4  614.69    1,3.73       -0.1            -6.4
8ingaporc Avoragea/         71.91    64.78    la1.142     -2.1            -7.1
2/  IncluL-r 0S °'-iia
2. RSS 1.
FAC, ;r. ac .: ;LsL c;., v.n.tcv e i     var*s. _.sss
O6tober 12, 1972



ANIIEX 17
MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
NATURAL RUBBER - SHARE OF EXPORTS IN TOTAL EXPORT EARNINGS, 1950-69
(Percentages)
Country        1950-52   1955-57   1962-64      1965        1966     1967     1968        1969
Malaysia        63.9      65.7      43.6        h0.2        38.3     32.0     30.7        37.1
Indonesia       29.8      42.1      40.7       46.6         32.8     32.6     29.5        31.7
Thailand        27.5      23.7      19.2       15.h         13.3     11.0     13.3        1&83
Ceylon          27.4      17.6   . 15.4        15.6         20.0     19.5    16.4         23.0
Vietnam         44.5      66.2      5h.7       7i.0         76.0     81.2       -           -
Liberia         21.4      19.2       8.7        18.5        18.0     17.0     14.9        16.2
Ca'ibodia       n.a.      39.3      27.1        33.3        37.3     27.7     25.3        21.3
Source: FAO, Commodity Review and Outlook and Trade Yearbook; and UN, Statistical Yearbook.
October 12, 1972



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
ANNBt 17
NATURAL RUBBER CONSUMPTION                      Table  ,
(thousand metric tons)
1960-62  % of  1966-63 % of              % of             X of
Pg:ion/Country               Average  Total Averave  Total   1969   Total   1970   Total
Developed_Countries V/       1O1Z7.4  66.2  1,7o6.5  64.5  1.825.2   61.2  1.852.6  62.9
United Statae                461.T.o  7i2:C    547.4  20.7   607.9  30.5   568.3  19.3
EEC                          432.5  19.9    484.8  18.3    485.4  16.3    513.2   17.4
U'ri.ted Kingdo              172.8    8.0   185.5    7.0    191.4    6.4    188.2    6.4
Other Western Europe          95.2    4.4   134.6   5.1    143.6    4.8   168.3    5.7
Japan                        180.1    8.3    239.0    9.0   268.0    9.0    283.0    9.6
Others                        92.8    4.3    115.2    4.4    128.9    4.3   131.6    4.5
3eveloping Countries           206.0           295.9   11.2   405.3  13.6    133.6  14.7
Producing                    127.1 5.9 172.1                  206.3   69    201.0 ____
India                       50.5    2.3     74.2   2.8    100.- 6   3.4      93.2    3.2
Malaysia                    21.4    1.0      8.8    0.3      16.2    0.5     20.4    0.7
Indonesia                   15.9    0.7     24.3   0.9      22.6    0.8      20.5    0.7
rhailand                     1.3    0.1      7.6    0.3      7.0    0.2       8.0    0.3
Ceylon                       0.9     -       5.9   0.2        7.6    0.3      5.1    0.2
,ambodia                     2.0    0.1      2.6    0.1       4.1   0.1       0.5     -
Vietnam                      2.2    0.1      5.0    0.2       6.7   0.2       5.5    0.2
Africa                       3.4    0.2     13.9    0.5      17.3    0.6     22.8    0.8
Latin Amierica              29.5    1.4     29.8    1.1     24.0   0.8       25.0   0.8
Non-Producing  /              78.9    3.6    123.8    4.7   199.0    6.7    232.6    7.9
Centrally Planned Countries 1/ 529.1   24.4   643.4   24.3   752.0   25.2    661.3   22.4
UssR                         287.6  13.2    294.2  11.1    295.0    9.9    272.8    9.3
Eastern Europe               136.8    6.3    167.8    6.3    182.0    6.1    207.2    7.0
China (Mainland)             104.7    4.8   181.4    6.9    275.0    9.2    181.3    6.2
WorlId Total                 2,172.5  100.0  2,645.8  100.0  2,982.5  100.0  2,947.5  100.0
1/ C:onsuniption of natural rubber. New supply of natural rubber into consuming countries
,shoWii for Belgium-Luxemburg (EEC); other Wtestern Europe; Canada, Australia, New
2;ealand and Souther Africa (Others); and USSR.
2/  Iproduction plus net ivports" for most of the developing countries.
3/ iDveloping Countries minus producing countries.
Sourc:e: IRSO, Rubber Statistical Bulletin.
October 12, 1972



HAIAYS IA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PRDJECT
WO)RLD IMPORTS 1/ OF NATURAL RUBBER, 1955-1967
(1,000 metric tons)
Other               Centrally   Rest    Total
USA   EEC   UK   Western   Japan   Planned           of     kbrld
Europe             Countries   World
1955                  637   395   271      82        92         1i.i      315      1,9L6
1956                 577   365   179       8b       113         288       285      1,890
1957                  552   376   218      97       133         289       317      1,981
1958                 h65   361   150       96       131         h58       323      1,981L
1959                 566   362.  169       89       161         Wi?       32h      2,116
1960                 lio4   391   139      93       173         l¢l       31d      1,986
1961                  391   377   155       92      186         568       3h3      2,113
1962                1h20   381   153    106         193         575       365      2,193
1963                 368   1i03.  158   1l1        188         5h6    . 382       2,157
196SI                I20  1;22   186    116         215         471       139      2,266
1965                1417   h13   191    129         207         569       136      2, 3hL0
1966                 389   418   181    139         230         638       Idil     2,L3,5
1967                 h19   415   18h    127        24L3        581       h73      2, L LI1
1968                 508   .1h2   194    lh2        258         709       h90      2,7h)
1969                 572   508   197    185         281         771       501      3,015
1970                 5143   536   19iz    179       292         671       563      2,978
Rate of Growth
1955/57 - 1965/67   -3.6  0.9   -1.9   1.2          7.2         9.IL      3.9       2.2
1955/57 - 1966/68   -2.6  1.1   -1.7   Lz.2         7.2         9.h       1l.0      2. )
1/  Originally given as "new supply of natural rubber into consuming countries".
*   Total may not add due to rounding.
Source: IRSG, London: Rubber Statistical Bulletin, various issues.
October 12, 1972



I



MAIAYSIA
THIRI) JENGKA TRIANGLE PIDJECT                  Annex 17
C)ltT IA1T
PRICES FOR NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC
RUBBER, BY TYPES, 1960-197-5
(U.S. CEN4TS PER POUND)
40                  E                    - .                              40
* 35             _____.__._                                              35
,g.....NATURAL RtUBBER
(Rss U I )
ht0                                           _                          30
-X.- POLYBUTAOIrNC
25                                          ...                          25
POLVISOPRENC                  *
20   \\\J                                                                20
15              .                            /______,,,,,,, *.__, __15
BR-(CIL-EXTENOED)
(.STIMATC)
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0O                  L   I I  ,                . 
6061  62  63  64  65  666 7  68 69  70  71  72  73  74  75
Y ctob    2 
October 12, 1972                                                        r Ww"



I                                                                                                                                                               I         



MALAYSIA
'i,iI1ID JEJ.C;Jk .-hA2G1LE I'PROJECT
fAL "AL24 SC1iEILCS' - F-IELOPMlE2"  COST PER ACRE
Year 1                    Year 2                  Year 3                      Year 4                   Total
Contraector Costs (labor)
Felling                                                  64.30                    1. 70                                                                        83.o00
Burniing                                                   4.0oo 0.00                                                                   -                        6.oo
Prunning, stacking, and reburning                        48.60                    23.40                                                 -                      72.00
Lining                                                    4.70                      2.30 °7.0
Timber at planting points                                                            -                        -                                                   -
Jeep trucks/agricultural roads                             9.40                     4.60                                                                        14.oo
Establishment of harvestors paths                            _                       _                        _
Platforms                                                14.70                      7.30                                                                       22.00
?over crop planting                                      29.00                     14.00                      -                         _                      43.00
Cover crop maintenance                                   16.00                    100.00                     1.00 167.00
Palm planting                                               -                      33.00                                                                        33.00
Manuring palms and covers                                   _                       1.00                     1.00                       -                        2.00
Supplying                                                   -                       2.00                     1.00                       -                        3.00
Pest and disease control                                    _                       0.60                      -                                                  0.60
Maintenance of roads and platforms                                                  0 o.40                     -                                                 o.40
Subtotal                                      190.70                   209.30                     53.00                       -                     453.00
Planting Material
First planting                                              -                      90.00                       -                       1.50                     91.50
Supplying                                                   -                       3.00                     3.00                       -                        6.00
Subtotal                                          -                      93.00                      3.00                     1.50                     97.50
Fertilizer and Pesticides
Fertilizer                                                  -                      21.25                     41.05                    24.00                     86.30
Pesticide and disease control                               -                       2.50                     2.50                      2.50                      7.50
Subtotal                                         -                      23.MT                     43.55                    26.50                     93.80
Other Costs
Timber removal at planting points                           -                                                13.30                     1.50                     15.00
Harvestors paths/platforms                                  _                                                12.60                     2.40                     15.00
Weeding/maintenance (labor)                                 _                        _                       36.oo                    55.00                     91.00
Manuring                                                    -                       3.00                      5.00                     .4.00                    12.00
Pest and disease control (labor)                            _                       1.90                      2.50                     2.50                      6.90
Supplying (labor)                                           -                        _                        1.00                     1.00                      2.00
Settlers tools                                                                                                3.00                      -                        3.00
Survey and census                                           _                        _                        1.00                      -                        1.00
Upgrading roads, culverts                                   -                         -                                               92.00                     92.00
Castration                                                               -                        -                                    7.00                      7-.0
Foliar analysis                                             _                        _                                                 1.00                      1.00
Pollination                                                 _                                                 I                        6 6ooo
Drain construction                                                                                            4.00                     2.00                      6.00
Maintenance roads, drains, platforms                                                1.60                      5.00                     9.00                     15.60
Subtotal                                                                  6.5o                    83.60                    183.40                   273.50    3
Total                                         190.70                   332.55                    183.15                    211.40o                  917.80
H 9O
/ October through September.
June 28, 1972



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
OIL PALM SCHEMES - 10-ACRE OIL PALM HOLDING
SETTLERS' WAGES AND SUBSISTENCE CREDITS
(M$)
-PAr_ --------- - y/Year After Clearing---------------
Per Acr                                          3                  4                 5                 6
Weeding                                        36.00              55.00             40.00             18.00
Manuring labor                                   4.00              4.00              5.00              5.00
Maintenance                                     2.25               9.00              8.00              8.0o
Pests and diseases                              1.25               2.50              2.50              2.50
Harvesting                                     ,                    -               27.00             48°00
Total wages                                    43.50              70.50             82.50             81.50
Per 10 Acres
Total Wages                                    435o00            705.00            825.00            815.00
Guaranteed income at $69.60/month             418.00             835.00            835.00            835.00
Subsistence credits                              -              130.00              23.0/             23.00 '
1   April through September.
a/ October through September.                                                                                      bd
3/  Discrepancies due to shortfalls in monthly incomes.
June 28, 1972



MALAYS IA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
FFB / SALES BEFORE LOAN REPAYMENT - 10 ACRES
Years After Clearing
5          ~~~6-
Tons f.f.b.                                              23               50
Oil                                                       4                9
Kernels                                                   1                2
Value                                                          (M$)
Oil at M$380 per ton f.o.b.                           1,420            3,420
Less export duty 7.5%                                  1111             257
Distribution M$26/ton oil                         104              234
Mill amortization M$8.45/ton f.f.b.               194              423
Processing charge M$9.00/ton f.f.b.               207              h50
All Sales Revenue to Settlers                          $801           $2,056
Kernels at M$250 less M$11 packing
cost = M$239 ex-mill price                             239              478
Total FFB Sales Value                               $L2 o             $2,534    D 
1/ Fresh fruit bunches                                                            CD
June 28, 1972



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
OIL PALM SCHEMES - LOAN ACCOUNT OF A TYPICAL 10 ACIE
OIL PALM HOLDING
(M$)
--------------------Years After Clearing--------------- ---
1          2          3            4           5            6         Total
Field development costs       1,907       3,326      1,831        2,1.14        -            -         9,178
Maintenance 1/                   -          -          -            -         1,64o        1,872       3,512
Subsistence credits              -          -          -            130          23           23         176
House and houselots              - l        457        942           73         -            -         1,523
Total                         1,958       3,783      2,773        2,317       1,663        1,895      14,389
Interest at 61                  122         366        563          743         893        1,002       3,689
FFB sales                        -          -          -            -        (1,040)      (2,534)      3.570)
Net annual loan               2,080       4 149      3,336        3.Q60       1,516          363      14,504
Accumulated loan              2.080       6 222      9.565       12,625      lh.141      lh.50h       14.5p0
1/ Costs of crop and road upkeep, and harvesting from first harvest.
June 28, 1972
9~~~~~~~~~0



-AAYISA
THIilD iiEGlA TRU.V*GLE M1t'ZF
C0L PALM S31    - A10 MW.    -' IF-  A2.3
Yaeore yrleerins                                    7         8         9        10        11         12        13       14      15        16       r         18         19      20         21      223                24        25       26-30
Y    Iars FInClr,t Haest                            3         4        5          6         7          8         9_    10        11        12        13       14        15       16         17      18        12       20        21      22-26
prctti: FPBfl/ trns                                  74        88       w         96       100        10(       96        94       91       99        W7        85       83        81       79        77        7,       73        71       7G
Oil t'm                                   15        19       20       2P         22         22       P1       P1        ?0        F0       19        19       18        18       17        17        17       17        16      1i
Keenel tos                                 3         4        4         4         5          5        4        3         4         4        4        4         4         4        4         3                            3
Oil -ine eif t t4 460/tn                           6,g90    8,741    0 9       3,(3    9,660    17,120  t0,120  4, 9,66O    9,.00    9,200    8,-740    9,740          8,o0   6,280    7,820    -',a& )    7,4r      -o        7,360    1,52.
L.es cit cots at Mt Oftm                           1,200    1,520    1.600    i,68o    116r60       1.7,0        1.68o    1i60    1,603    1,600    1.520    1.520    i,W4o     ,.44o    1.360      ',:      1.3f0    1.36o    1,20    1.27
OLI -a.ue 8b                                       5,702    7,220    7,600    7,980       8,360     8,366    7,980    7,980    7,600    7,600    7,-20    7,-2P0    6,840    6,840    6,460    6,460    6,460    6,4fo          6,f80    5_710
L's::   t 7 1/25 fr rfc                             428       54P      970       599       627        827      599       599      570       570      34p       542      513       513       485      4835      48s      48h       456       4c8!
Oil tnprtatim mI to port at M$ 26/to           390      494       Y.,0     546        572       572       546  _    46       520      o20       494__  494         468      468       442       442.    442        442      416       390
Oil --ill Wric                                     4,882    6,1P4    6,510    6,835       7,161     7,i6i    6,835      ,5    6,5io    6,510    6,184    6,l84         5,859    5,859     5,v33    5,533    5,933    9,33       5,208    4,332
Kaml -dea    es-mill at r4 P39/to                    717      956      _16       956      1,19   1,19)         556 95     6       956       956      956       956      956       96       956       n7 17              717 777             717
Total Vue oil and keela a. a£11                    5,599    7,140    7,466    7,791      '1, s5     8,356    7,791    7,791    7,46,6,    7,4£6    7,140    7,140    6,813    6,81-,  f6,489    6,250    6,250    6,250    5,925    5, 99
FF8 transport ,ed praases  cost at li 13/ toe FtP    96P    i,144    1,196    1,24f,    1,300       1,303    1,248    1,222     1,196    1,157    1,131      1,105    1,079    1,01       1,027    1.001       975      949       923       910
i   anrtiastio  at mt 8.45/ton 7FB                  625       y44       77       3n       '945        845       II__   j194       777      7Tp       735       718       701      684     668        651        341     617      f00        592
Sale,   e.  to settlers                            4,0r2    3,252    5,493    5,732       6,211     6,2ii    5,732    5,775    5,493      5,557    5,274    5,317    5,035    5,078       4,794    4,598    4,64i    4,684    4,4oo       4,09'
L-e:  pkeep cots at M$                              77/ 7er  ro  rru    tO       rto       rro        77O      77,       770      770       770      770       770       770      770       770      77O       770      77o       770       770
L. d weas  nd rnt                                       107       17                            107       107      107a      lo(      107       107      117       107       107      17a        66       66        66        66       66
RFplDatiug charg(PUe ) .t MI 5.06/tot          374      44;       46£      48t        soC       906       436      476      466       450       440      430       420       410      4oo       390       380      369       359      354
tet lem befw   1    repaymt                        2,761    3,350    4,150    4,369       4,803     4,tP8     4,3(g    4,4o'    4,15o    4,230    3,957    4,oio    3,738    3,791        3,517    3,372     3,425    3.479    3,2D7    2,907
L7  rep4aumat                                      1ti,8    1,513    1,913    1,9318      1.-AS     1,518    1,;13     1,i18    1,518    1,518    1,518       1,158    i.5i8    1,518     1,518                _ -       -
alaS" e to satt2er                                 1,243    2,412    2,632    P,85'       S, S"     3.310    2 851    P,904    2,63P    2,712    2,439        P12      2,220    2,273    1.89       3.372    3.425    3-47      ,    T2   290
3/ Femlh ftit b=ndeb.
2mm 29, 1972






_ / Y)21
JIO;   !PEN    PIANGII. PH23E7
0)2227      " 30ln r0 - £LJ tWWN  COST0 PEr AfCF
Year -- _                                      2ea,                    Year 4                  Ye-                    Year 6                 Year 7                     'Total
Contractor Costs (]abor,
Felling,                                              64.30 Jo                             -                                   - _  _                  __3.00
Surciog                                  1~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~4.0 o-  -O
Prununmg, stacking and reborniug                      48.6o                  .' a                      -                       -                       -                      -                      -                        0.0Y)
Lining                                                 4.70                   2.0                                                                                                                                             7.0)
Jeep tracks                                           10.10                   4                        - _          i           J
Terracing                                             37.10                   13.9)                    -                       -                       -                      -                      -                        ,
Establislnt of cover crops                            27.00                   13.00                    -                       -r 
M.i.ate-ce of corer crops                             16.00                  1o0.!Y)                  51.0                   )-.
Planting of poly bagged budded stumps                   _                    63.0o                     -                       _                       _                      _                      _
Supplying                                                                      3.00                    1.00-
Subtotal                                      2U.80                   r48.7O                 52.00                     -                       -                      -                      _                      512.00
Planting Material
First dlanting                                                                57.00                     -                      -                                                                                              57.00
Supplying                                            _                         5.25                   4.20                    2.45                     -                                                                      11.90
Subtotal                                       -                      62.25                   4.20                    2.45                     -                      _                      -                        68.90
Fertilizer and Pesticides
Fertilizer                                             _                      18.70                  27.40                   42.60                   30.00                  30.00                  30.00                     178.70
Pest and disease control                                                       -                      3.15                    2.50                    2.50                   2.50                   2.50                      13.15
Subtotal                                       _                      18.70                   30. 5                  45.10                   32.50                  32.50                   32.50                    191.85
Other Costs
Removal of tizber (tabor                                                        -                      -                     16.50                     -                      _                       _                       16.50
Weeding (labor)                                                                 -                     42.00                 101.0O                   80. 00                 61.00                  50.00                     334.00
Supplying (abor)                                                              2.75                    4.00                    2.75                     -                      -                       -                        9.50
Prwniag(labor5                                         _                       j00                    5.00                    6.oo                    3.00                   0.50                     -                       17.50
Nnuring/peaticide (labor)                              _                       3.00                    3.85                   4.50                    3.50                   3.50                    3.50                     21.85
Drain coentructin                                      _                        -                     4.oo                    -                        -                      -                       -                        4.o0
Road, terrace and drain maintenance                    -                       0.50                   4.00                    4.00                    3.00                   2.00                   1.00                      14.50
(uying                                                                          - _                    2.00                   2.00                     -                      -                       -                        4.00
Settlers' tools                                        _                                               5.00                                           -                                             2.80                       7.80
Subtotal                                                               9.25                   69.85                 136.75                   89.50                  67.00                   5                        42.6
Total                                        211.8                       4;156.60                                   184.30                  122.                     9950                   89.8                   1202.40
D/ 0ntsler tbraoul   Septaer.
Jime 28, 1972



MALYS IA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
RUBBER SCHEMES - 10 ACRE RUBBER HOLDING
SETTLERS' WAGES AND SUBSISTENCE CREDITS
(M$)
Per Acre                               --Year After Clearing---------------------
32!/                        5             6              7
Weeding                                42.00        101.00          80.00         61.00          50.00
Pruning                                 2.65          6.oo           3.00           .50            -
Manuring                                2.00          2.00           1.00          1.00           1.00
Maintenance                             2.00          4.00           3.00          2.00           1.00
Pests and Diseases                      1.25          2.50           2.50          2.50           2.50
Guying                                  2.00          2.00            -             -              -
Total Wages                            51.90        117.50          89.50         67.00          54.50
Per 10 Acres
Total Wages                           519.00      1,175.00         895.00        670.00         545.00
Guaranteed Settler Income at
$69.60/month                          418.00        835.00         835.oo        835.00         835.00
Subsistence Credit to be
Provided                                -             -                          165.00         290.00  1-3
1/ Apri1 through September                                                                              CD
2/ October through September
June 26, 1972



MALAYSTIA
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
RUBBER SCHEMES - LOAN ACCOUNT
OF A TYPICAL SETTLER FOR A 10-ACRE EUHBER HOLDING
(M$)
-------------------Year After Clearing ------
1     2      3        4       5         6        7    Total
Field Development Cost   2118   3384   1566    1843    1220         995      898   12024
House and House Lot         51    457    943        72     -        -         -     1523
Subsistence Credits                -      -         -      -       -165      290     455
2169   3841   2509    1915    1220    1160    1188   140C2
Interest at 6V  p.a.       136    384    565       720     841      966    1101    4713
Total           2305   4225  3074    2635    2061    2126    2289   1871,5
Accumulative Total        2305   6g30   9601     12239  W140    161426   187       187
CD 
June 26, 1972



MALAYSIA
TIIRD JTEGKA TRYANCGLE PROIECT'
RUBBER SCHEMES -     Bt4 BIDG ET FOR 10 ACRES
Yesrs After Clearing                                                 '                       10                     111 2-17                                    18-21                   22-25                  26-30                  30-32
Years of TaFniag                               1                     2                        3                      4104                                                               15-_18                 19-23                  24-95
Dry robber (lb)                              6,500                 10,0DM                  13,000                 14,0o0                 15 "Om                 17,500                 i6,ooo                  18,000                 17,000
Value at M$ 0.48/lb cit                      3,120                  4,80W                  6,240                   6,720                  7,200                  8,400                  7,680                   3,640                  8,160
Less costs to cif M$ 0.04/lb                   260                    400                    520                     56o                   600                     700                    640                     720                    630
Value fob                                    2,860                  4,400                  5,720                   6,26D                  6,60o                  7,700                  7,040                   7,920                  7,480
Lesa 3-ty at 4% fob ,alue                      114                    176                    229                    i46                    264                     303                    282                     317                    299
Research and replnting
Ce,ses at 5.50/lb                          358                    955                    715                     770                   825                     963                    880                     990                    935
Proeasing tnd transporting
at 70/lb                                   455                    700                    910                     980                  1,050                  1,229                  1,120                   1,260                  1.190
Gross Incase to Settler                      1,933                  2,014                   3,866                 '4,164                  4,46i                  5,204                  4,7)8                   5,353                  5,056
Le.o upkeep and cofle-tion                     296                    290                    290                    290                    290                     362                    362                    352                     362
Land promti'o  -nd rent                        111                    131                    111                    111                     111                    111                    111                     111                    111
Ret inoaae before lowa
repay.nt                                   1,526                  2,573                   3,465                  3,763                  4,060                  4,731                  4,2o8                   4,8b0                  4,583
Loan repasent                                  326 (/               1.373  '               2,212                  2,212                  2,212                   2.212                  2.212                     -                      -
Balanee                                     1,200                   1,?O0                  1,253                  1,551                  1,848                  2,519                  2,073                   4,880                  4,583
T_o applicstione  or Ethrel stila-t annuolly fras years 11-25 of tapping.                                                                                                                                                                  c°
/ Repaymenta assessed to allov incoenc  of $1,200 per nn.-.
J=ne 28, 1972



1 7  975'    1975       7377      1977     1q77      .M  I      1797    1771     172        94       75        17       19'1      79717     1097     76        7991     791        97       193       1>~       97      1.77       77         47D173                        71       D37M 134 75                          7
- 7771777.7  7977MA11.317781>12    1 585-   1.775   11,175   14,59    7,35      1,041       771
4OM      714    3.87       138       314    3,973    4.319
111772 ,7,71,M>17 7377  MS                                        71       173      553      771       771    1,7"      7,7773    7,1,71    7197    7,77777,63           1757    ',971        7,   7-3  .                  7         737i      77237     13      7         9         -7 74 772           777      777       17',      61
7D01.,1 1177 1737777171177 77,77, 77                                   547      113   1,771      7,977    4,759     >,111     7,' 9~~~   7,737    7,1657.37,17>77,77477,774    7.737,    717,7:4                     7,7775    7,717.   1,59     4,4 71    7,1:7    7,777IL.757
1,747    1.77,      4     ,17       4,7      1,9       437       21         7.       ,77        i7     7,7        .81      .77       .,,77479           774         77    ,7          7%       ,61      7,97      173       177      6735    L7744          337
-  7,727,11.11<  27.9,ll775   173.1    14.M7   17,6797    1,77                             11,755 9 1l,94     7,947     9,177        V     ,,,.~                                  179~,"             11,,4,% 3                                                            ,4       ,3        ,  , 3   8         316       3 C       35
-  77,> 97'71777317.7>                                                                                 1.477    1,47>,    1,491    1.477    1,72,    1.-MS    i,l 77    7,7,79    7,8 77    1,117    1,~~~~~~~~~~77    1.18M7    1~~,77   1,977   D.70M9    M,-99  1 ,-I;,4M  74,4,    L7,4737  74>79    1. 54,    1,,477 ,,9  71i7,179
2-771,,77                            7    8,009   13,10      71,10    14,47    315,57    5,91       9,-7    4,Ss;    1,4777        I        ,1          ~        21 U41 10Q                    5        IM~ ,4          .-      1~111198 -,3                             ,7       ,73      362       j46       3-1,l4
-                                                                                                                                                                                       7        ..71     4       63,13>27>4                                                                                                         9.936    17,754,9,712
7>17 7171971777 177 11717317~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,4                                                                         L'-                         O                                 -                -15 1.- 1.191.9
-  '7777118,                                                               57      123       77        57      7j    1977         ,17      1,44    1.7M       7,99    7,54             771 711 II77   94,340    11,77              ,47      797 2,1 477                73        2,491    2,01,9    0,617      147 757               777      s54 747(.
-  7711                 491      771    8.393     0.399    3.214    7.98~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"1    411:79N    2'4.19  I.M   7,100   771:  21'7.00  'I7.20  7,2M8.9   7.1  I,20,    7,7113777 4     ,209    0,073      7.20..720,    3,8`
.2,1,0 1970111177,772,,t..






78773    1974     177       172       997       1972      1979      1999      1991      7997    ~997        1987      1975       1991      19B7      1999      1979      1~99       7977      ,2       1993      71.8      -97       196       197        79        .9        99,91797    7747                                   -778      277        78
91    A7 79317777                                                                       1,v78    3,7723    4,5691    5.4775,7a56    7.-1            6,2        ,97       719       9,92    9.928    9,97        5.56       ~ 2,69    5271~   ,164    5,737       5,799      4,L797     46,74    .,5,31     4473    47,776      4,767    4,7i67     3,939        79
7,2      75       777       337       699       431        695       49        4755      67        47714               597       57        99        79        795       95        57        57        57          6         7         9         3
977 7,,277777,  3     1        11        69        76        -7       119 ~~~~~~~~~~       66        78        37        12        19         79        77        19        91        78        29        19         9179 ;47 4,7                           17        17  36,8            178 ,6    97        773        195   779           31  719  177,6
797,27791    1         9         1         7         1         7         7         7         3         2         7         7          7         7         7          1        7         9         7         7         7         9         7         7         7         7         7         7         7          7         7         7         7         7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1    7    7    7    7    7    7    7 
7,972-~~~~~~5-77I26               7 ~~~~~~ 13       31        7         75        71        95        7l             7    7         72        2115                 97         9       77         19         71                 ,          '            73 1                   7             7 9 3           1 9         9            9        1                   57       16         7
17  7,  177     777 ~~~~~~25        7913      99        37        39        39          5        363       35         396      313 3        792              396       97         71       912 187             17         79        1         17          aS       2                9    77
27,711 77779773                     77       22~~~~~~1   57     79        935    7,997    7,797      5,997    7,196    9,537       9,395    -79,        17,7:17-,'735   17,591   7797          77,513   77.567   97,997          37,7    7,,49j   7297 1,136    7.8,7717-777                         ,67      973    8.778          8,317    7,357     77,973      711       659 
297,99177,7277,2,7  972,7721977, ~         5                                                                  :,31 
7777 999,,01779                           1,        96        97        64       197       19        177       77        179       701       197        199        79       779       97        777       777       19941778979999                          79        199       7-        199       137        797        179       999797             77        139 97
972,7 723657877787      7,2791,187        2,176    17.470     9~~~~~,647    9738    5.227   I,37~5    77,727    7,717     7,779    7,197    1.7          767    7-,7         7,77    1,27        77 1,1      777      1,877    162         67~ 6 ,  1,72 ,7    ,7      7,17      1,777    1,167      1.779      9,679      1,277   1,677    9,679       7;67    1,177    1,799
727797197.9  9,7,9791   7991,17  71,097   1,919717771   21.693   38.937  77.777  71,877   7369797779,197  71 .819   78,117   11,117719713179          77.75   6,418      11,81   7691149,89    51159    7,179    99618                1.37     77,11 7986    96,98   11,541111177    55.36    13,111191717111,76    513997    75,1 1  6176
17  7977,77899 1089, 77 797777.~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  18                                                                                                         1    13          ~~6              7 
77~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(''     l~~ 69,I77984 75M1919   85737,-,,455227911
779,997 13, 1872~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4''~9






MALAYSLA
1ItHRD JiN0KA TRIANUL&r.   R h
OIL PALY SCiHEM2ES - ECONOMIC RAT3B OF iSTUJN CALCUIATIOi
(M$' o00)
Yoa' I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9   Year 10   Year 11-3,
1.972/73   1973/7L   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   2978/79   1979/08  1983/8)    1981/82    1982/2001
COSTS
Felda Capital Expenditure
Agricultural Development                          693     3,650      5,965      5,070      4,046      1,339        138         10         -          _            _
Settler Housing                                     9        269     1,199      1,516      1,536        133         _          -          _          _            _
Palm Oil Mill                                      -          -        880      3,400         97      2,970        180         -          -          -            -
FELDA Management                                   40       353        842      1,062        936        783         -          -          _          _            _
Subtotal                                 742     4,212      8,886    11,048       6,6.5     5,225        31]b        1          _          _
Physical Contingency                               37       21i4       444        552        331        261         16                    -          -            -
Subtotal                                 779      4,488     9,326    11,600       6,946      5,1186       338         11         -          -            -
Direct Government Capital Expenditure
Roads Construction                                464     1,334      1,461        961        100         -          -          -          -          -            _
Physical Contingency                               23         67        73         48          5         - 
Subtotal                                 487      1,801      1,534     1,009        105         -          -          -           -          -            -
FELDA and Government Current Expenditure
Management Schemes and Headquarters                -          -          -         -          -          -         770        773        777        782       15, 64
Upkeep & Smallholder Labor Cost - Agr.             -          -         -          -         663      3,014      3,581      2,164      i,698      1,698       20,979
Roads Maintenance                                  -          -          8         20         58        114        128        128        128        128        2,552
Transport and Processing                           -          -         -          -          77        428        901      1,322      1,584      1,695       30,561
Subtotal                                  -          -           8         20        798     3,556      5,380      8,387      4,187      4,303        69,686
Physical Contingency                               -          -          -          1         40        178        269        219        209        215        3,888
Subtotal                                  -          -           8         21        838     3,734       5,649     4,606       4,396      4,518       73 570
TOTAL COSTS                                       1,266      5,887    10,871    12,630       7,889      9,220      5,983      8,617      4,396      4,518        73,570
BENSFlTS
Palm Oil Production (tori)                           -          -          -          -       1,486     8,705    20,047    31,938    80,353    88,823           8.!,947
Value ex mill M$ 354/ton                             -          -          -          -         526     3,082       7,097    1] ,3)6    18,285    25,B63;       288,49..
Kernel Production (ton)                              -          -          -          -         372      2,n11      4,596      6,900      8,452      9,226      166,.(9
Value ex mill M$ 239/ton                             -          -          -          -          89        505      1,.)98     ],649      2,020      2 20.)      3.
TOTAL BENEFIIS                                       -          -          -          -         615      3,587      8,195     12,955    16,335    29,36         3,325         (
NET BENEFITS                                     (1,266)   (5,887)  (1.0,811)  (12,630)   (7,27h)   (5,633)    2,212           8,338    11,939    13,584        29., 7
Rate of Return:  17.57
February 22, 1973



MALAYSIA
THIRD JENGXA TRIANGLE PROJECT
RUBBER SCHENES - ECONOMIC RATE OF RSIURN CALCULATION
(M$ 000)
Year:             1          2         3                               6         7          8         2         10        11-32
COSTS
Felda Capital Expenditure
Agricultural Development                         817      1,397     3,214      4,9y1     2,810      2,855     2,172      1,568       161         -            -
Settler Housing                                   10        252       440        890     1,242         94        -          -          -         -            -
Latex Collecting Stations                          -         -          -         -         -          -         16          3        39         16           46
FELDA Management                                _42         235       368        728       691        682       602        628       686        627          -
Subtotal                                          869     1,884     4,022      6,609     4,743      3,631     2,790      2,195       886        643           46
Physical Contingency                              43         94       201        330       237        182       140        110        44         32            2
Subtotal                                         912      1,978     4,223      6,940     1,980      3,813     2,930      2,339       930        675           48
Direct Government Capital Expenditure
Roads                                             336       566     1,359      1,239       200         -         -          -          -         -           -
Physical Contingency                               17        28         53        62        10         -         -          -          _         _            _
Subtotal                                          353       594      1,112     1,301        213        -         -          -          -         -            -
Felda and Government Current Expenditure
Management Schemes and Headquarters                -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -        13.79U
Upkeep & Suallholder Labor Cost - Agr.            -          -         -                    -          -         -         150       124        577      27,359
Road Maintenance                                   -         -           5        14        38         51         71        71         71        71        1,558
Transport and Processing                           -         -          -         -         -          -         -         195       300        979      42,537
Subtotal                                           -         -           5        14         38        51         71       416        495     1,627       85,244
Physical Contingency                               -         -          -          1          2         3          4        21         25        81        3,527
Subtotal                                           -         -           5        15         40        54         75       437        520     1,708       9R 771
TOTAL COSTS                                       1,265     2,572      5,340     8,256      5,230     3,867      3,005     2,746      1,450     2,383       88,819
BENEFITS
Production - t000 lb                                 -          -         -          -         -          -         -      2,782      4,288    13,981      609,105
Fbb Value at M$ 0.44/lb                              _         _          _         _          _         _          -      1,226      1,887      6,152     268.006       or
NET BENEFITS                                     (1,265)   (2,572)   (5,340)   (8,256)   (5,230)   (3,867)   (3,005)   (1,520)          437     3,-,?69    179,187
Rate of Return:  12.4%
February 22, 1973



IBRD 10088
'io              1T2-20                                                              102'40'                                 MALAYSIA                            102050 AUGUST   197
THIRD JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
STAGE ONE  iSCHEMES          C TO    j
m    STAGE TWO  (SCHEMES ( T 04I
A                                                                                  t SG  TEK>A ,                                       ,9  <  A STAG                                         E THREE (SCHEMES     TO  5)
1                                                                            EX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____S  STING PRIMARY ROADST
____PRIMARY ROADS STAGE  I, 3II AND Ol
- -  - -  SECONDARY ROADS STAGE  I, I AND II
*   )Y_<,   VILAGE AREA AND SCHEME NUMBER
R    P   RUBBER SCHEMES
OP iip OGP0L PALM SCHEMES
PALM OIL MILLS
V  RUBBER FACTORS
y R -- -  (' FGIOtL, &                                                      g E FOREST  I NDUSTRY COMPLFX
LZ iiII|  FOREST RESERVES
PHASING OF CLEARING STAGE IS
f CJ > ;~~~~/ 8 $ L +> ~~~~<9 e i* ~~U LU  JEMPOL 
T1972 - 1973
1iZZZ 97 3 - 1974
L z X g / < / r/ >, ) 0 ; [) t 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~974 - 1975
-NTEERNATOCNAIL BOUNDARIES
\-T--,-.., RA1LROADS
MILES
. . z   )  0   X  . . .  . .       O(                                   I Lf _      U ,-   P  /°
\  5 /   X             $   *ets,>\tIJI              t   STAGE Ot4E             |4 /           3~~~~~~~~K TAJAU                    MARAN
-- r 1 S \ Si ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 7 ,9B    -   
gNEREK  A \    0                     0                   <                  f   X  _           \1~~PAHAN    ptiC     5UDH C/I/NB  SEA
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T/NL /ETAKL/TATo
S E% ~   ' 3 0  _            '                                          * K E
TO  RE   ~~   GB  BA/PR!  I02~3S                         -*            102 US                                     I                                         SINGAPOTE



