Document of
The World Bank                                iz
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2511-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
BANG PAKONG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
April 12, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution ad my be ued by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be dised withowt World Bank authoriztIon.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   -      Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00         -      B 20.25
B 1.00          -      US$0.0494
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =   3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (kg)                =   0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  3   2.471 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =   2.206 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                    =   1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic meter per second (cms) =   35.315 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 kilovolt (kV)                 =   1,000 volts (V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)         -   1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)         =   1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt (kW)                 =   1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                 =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt (GWh)                =   1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        =     Asian Development Bank
BVI        =     Black & Veatch International
CPPD       =     Committee for Power Policy and Development
EGAT       =     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
IEAT       =     Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT       =     Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
KFAED            Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MEA              Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MWWA       =     Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NGOT       =     Natural Gas Organization of Thailand
PEA        -     Provincial Electricity Authority
RTG        =     Royal Thai Government
TOT        =     Telephone Organization of Thailand
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
BANG PAKONG POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:             Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                $80.0 million
Terms:                 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% per annum.
Project Description:  The project is part of EGAT's 1978-85 expansion
program and comprises: (a) land procurement and site
development of a power station that will liltimately
consist of four units of 500 MW capacity each; (b)
construction of civil works including power plant
structures and buildings, fuel supply handlinR and
storage systems, water cooling systems, make-up water,
etc.; (c) supply and installation of the boiler, turbo-
generator, auxiliary electrical, mechanical and miscel-
laneous equipment for the first 500 MW generating unit;
(d) construction of 230 kV switchyard at Bang Pakong and
substations at Rangsit and Bang Kapi and 110 km of 230 kV
transmission lines linking Bang Pakong power station
to the EGAT grid; (e) supply of construction equipment
(hoists, cranes, welding equipment, earth movers, con-
crete mixers, etc.); (f) engineering services; and (g) a
study of future generation and transmission projects.
The project will help meet the country's growing elec-
tricity demand including that of the accelerated rural
electrification program. There are no risks considered
significant enough to preclude proceeding with the
project.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
------ $ million ------
Local   Foreign   Total
Land                                       0.4        -        0.4
Civil works                               31.8       6.0      37.8
Boiler plant                              11.0      51.0      62.0
Turbo-generator plant                      9.0      34.8      43.8
Other electrical and mechanical
equipment                                5.8      25.8     31.6
Transmission lines and substations         8.0      16.5      24.5
Engineering, consultancy services
and supervision                          7.3       9.0      16.3
Construction equipment                     0.2       6.2       6.4
Duties and taxes                          17.5        -       17.5
Contingencies
Price                                 15.5      27.6     43.1
Physical                               6.5       7.1     13.6
Total Project Costs              113.0    184.0    297.0
Financing Plan:
EGAT                                 113.0        -     113.0
KFAED                                   -      22.0      22.0
Suppliers' credits and
commercial banks                     -       82.0      82.0
IBRD                                    -      80.0      80.0
Total                           113.0    184.0    297.0
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:
------------- $ million ------------
Bank FY   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual                                1.5    13.0    57.0       1.0     7.5
Cumulative                            1.5    14.5    71.5    72.5    80.0
Rate of Return:      13%
Appraisal Report:   No. 2271-TH dated April 5, 1979



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE BANG PAKONG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the foilowing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $80 million to
help finance the Bang Pakong Thermal Power eroject. The loan would have a
term of 20 years including five years grace with interest at 7.9% per annum.
The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is considering co-financing
the project with a loan of $22.0 million equivalent on terms of 25 years,
including 7 years of grace with interest at 3-1/2% per annum. EGAT is also
seeking $19 million from commerical banks and suppliers' credit financing of
about $63 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a iink between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signifi-
cant reduction in absolute poverty, but that nevertheless important groups
have lagged behind. It identifies the essential characteristics of these
groups and points to the need for continued rapid overall development as well
as the initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem,
particularly in rural areas. It further discusses the constraints that will
have to be faced if these policies are to be successfully implemented.
Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy.  Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country and not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, then Commander in Chief of the Army, has moved
successfully to consolidate Thailand's external position by improving and
stabilizing relations with Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthen-
ing relations among its ASEAN partners. The constitutional assembly under the
interim constitution completed its work and a new constitution was promulgated
in December 1978.  Elections are scheduled for April 22, 1979.  Because of the
structure of the selection process, it is expected that Kriangsak will be
/I Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the recent President's
Report (No. 2471-TH) dated February 22, 1979 for the Fifth Railway Project
in Thailand, distributed to the Executive Directors on March 6, 1979.



nominated Prime Minister. The relative strengths of the political parties in
the election will determine the exact makeup and orientation of the new
Government. It is unlikely, however, that the results of the election will
impair the country's political stability or reduce its commitment to poverty
alleviation and reduction of income disparities.
4.        A broad concensus has been developing over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development, and all recent governments have
endorsed the objectives and major strategies of the country's Fourth Five-Year
National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81). There is now increas-
ing concern to achieve a widespread distribution of the benefits from growth.
In the past several years the Government has initiated efforts to increase the
flow of public resources to the poor rural areas, including the Tambon
program of direct transfers to villages in 1976, the drought relief program in
1977, and the flood relief program in 1978. All these programs have been
designed to produce quick and visible results, the latter two in response to
specific crises, but they were also aimed at increasing production capacity
in rural areas and demonstrating the concern of the Central Government for the
plight of the rural population. When the new Government is installed for a
four-year term after the April elections, it will be in a better position to
pursue more long-term solutions as well. There is an increasing realization
that an improvement in the conditions of the poorest farmers and those living
in the more remote areas is not only desirable in itself, but would also
counteract insurgency in the long run.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there was some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP growth
rate from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real agricultural
growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The cultivated
area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved, irrigation
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including maize, cassava,
kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. As a result, agriculture has also been
a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic and
price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
the center. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest average
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,



Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions there is also considerable variation: farmers
who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial
growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. This
is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Given a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this
large group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a.
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price
increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this
deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed
into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth
to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. This was
accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government to curtail
sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975. Price stability has
largely been restored and private domestic investment remains high at 17-18%
of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978 and inflation again threatens
to become a serious problem. The economy has demonstrated considerable
resiliency in the face of external shocks and the political uncertainty that
has existed in Southeast Asia for the past decade. The real GDP growth rate
never fell below 5% and exceeded 7% since 1975.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. It is facing severe restrictions on
two of its major exports to the European Economic Community, cassava and
canned pinapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International Sugar
Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973-74, has
since been running large deficits. The current account deficit reached $1,241
million, or 6% of GDP in 1978. The Government has significantly increased its
foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar market and
from the IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves have also
been used extensively. To contain the balance of payments deficit, the
Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and
increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. It raised
the gasoline price again in February 1979 and started an energy conservation
program to try to contain the oil import bill.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the second year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plans to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns.   The



-4-
concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level has been a major
factor impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delegation
of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries necessary
to implement new-style integrated development projects has been lacking.
These problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a
number of long- and short-term measures to modernize its development adminis-
tration and expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of
the civil service personnel, planning and staffing procedures, establishment
of special project committees, and implemen3tation of a revolving fund scheme
to speed implementation of Bank-funded projects. Continued improvement in
development management is one of the principal objectives of our policy
dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started in the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable
distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster
generation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development.
Projected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for
the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However,
the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help the Govern2nt dzfine policies and
programs to help achieve the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are
focusing on problems of employment, income distribution, industrial policy,
and regional development. The Bank will be supporting a Provincial Planning
program, and NESDB has just initiated a New Village Development Program
designed to involve all levels in the determination and implementation of
small-scale projects, initially in the poorest villages. Japan has committed
some $70 million to support the first two years of this program.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth:
a relatively equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai
farmers to improved technology, extensive, albeit uneven, provision of
infrastructure by the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector
in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have been made in family
planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from 3%
during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./l The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the recent past, the labor force is
expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very high rate of
job creation. Past growth has benefited some households a great deal and
others not at all, creating increasingly obvious income disparities that could
threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time, additional
fertile land, which has provided a livelihood for new entrants into the labor
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in
Annex I for the period 1970-76.



force and has supported agricultural export growth in the past, is becoming
increasingly scarce. In view of these factors, continued reliance on the past
pattern of development would lead to a deceleration of agricultural and
overall growth in the next decade, resulting in persistently large balance of
payments deficits, higher rates of unemployment or underemployment, and
stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer segments of the population,
especially in rural areas and among unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the
development pattern is necessary not only for social, but also for economic
reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substitution industries to one based on increasingly intensive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary to
ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or
at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined to largely short-term economic management,
where its performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic
and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the
Government will now have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 65% of exports, employs 70% of the labor
force, and provides a livelihood for 90% of Thailand's poor. Future growth of
the sector will have to be based on more intensive utilization of cultivated
areas, improvement in yields, continued diversification of crops, improved
cropping patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural
credit. All of these imply an increased goverament role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth for those who have not fully participated in the
recent growth in rural income. These programs should aid the development of
upland and rainfed lowland areas through research, extension services and
rural infrastructure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible,
irrigation development, with the associated introduction of high-yielding
varieties, greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be
continued. The Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these
efforts (see para. 22).
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, construc-
tion and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment for
the growing population. This will require modifications of industrial policy
and programs with the prime objective of creating jobs for the rapidly growing
labor force at rising levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will
be required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic rural population also
offers market opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment for
local use, and processed agricultural products for urban consumption and



- 6 -
export. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price
distortions, increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to
efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic
private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating
jobs.
16.       The Consultative Group for Thailand met in Paris on December 5 and 6,
1978 under the chairmanship of the Regional Vice President for East Asia and
the Pacific. The Group noted with satisfaction the positive results of past
development efforts in Thailand as summarized in the recently issued economic
report (2059-TH). The Group also supported the conclusions of the report and
of the analysis of the Thai delegation, led by the Minister of Finance, that
major new efforts were needed to reduce the incidence of poverty and to
maintain the past rates of growth. Programs to accelerate rural development,
raise productivity, and thereby accelerate poverty alleviation were called for
as the first priority. In addition, it was recognized that expanding industrial
production along the lines of Thailand's comparative advantage was essential
to the country's long-term prospects. The Thai delegation presented the New
Village Development Program to the donors and it was favorably received.
Resource Requirements
17.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through
revision of the tax structure and income and better collection efforts. It is
currently investigating other more efficient tax systems, such as the value
added tax. Such changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of
foreign trade, particularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited
agricultural growth.
18.       During the coming 5-10 years, there will be significantly greater
demands on external resources than has been the case in the past as the cost
of any attempt to reduce the presently existing resource deficit rapidly would
be high in terms of growth and employment opportunities foregone. Despite an
average real growth of exports in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the
terms of trade, large trade and current account deficits are expected through
the mid-1980s. The needs for capital goods imports for industry and for
modern inputs to raise agricultural productivity are such that the current
deficit is not expected to decline rapidly. In the longer term, the exploita-
tion of the natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of
its lignite resources, the continued growth of manufactured exports and the
development of Thai industries should restore external equilibrium and sig-
nificantly reduce the current account deficits in the second half of the
1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these
deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience, they are not high
in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison to other



countries at similar stages of development. With a dynamic private sector and
a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal policy, Thailand should be
able to use the resources effectively and service the debt.
19.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMff resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowinR bv the Government and public sector. The
Bank of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external
public borrowing requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and
the level of concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group
meeting. It was agreed that, although high, the aid requirements were consis-
tent with Thailand's development strategy and sustainable for the economy.
The need for continued substantial support on concessional terms was emphasized.
20.       It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8% in 1977)
should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, currently about 15%, should not exceed 20%.
IBRD exposure in Thailand will fall as other donors increase their programs.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion
of manufactured exports, these debt service requirements will be within
Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its credit standing. It should be
noted, however, that these projections assume a significant level of conces-
sional assistance from other donors, particularly Japan, in view of that
country's announced intention to expand its foreign aid program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
21.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 48
loans amounting to $1,274.7 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($295.5 million), irrigation ($236.3 million) and
power/energy and rural electrification ($245.4 million) with, in addition,
one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The
remaining loans have been for telecommunications ($153 million); other agri-
culture and rural development ($104 million); urban development ($79.6 million);
education ($52.3 million); and industry ($42.8 million); two loans were made
under the terms of the Interest Subsidy Fund. Thailand has also received four
IDA credits! one for $19.5 million for an education project; two credits
totaling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 mil-
lion for a population project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have
been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of February 28, 1979.



- 8 -
22.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 40% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 45%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting; livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors - which prior
to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program -
have both diversified and grown; such projects have in recent years included
education, population and low-income housing for about 13% of the program.
23.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify
the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, but also underscore the
need to move even further to design programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have so far been largely
bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore,
the Bank is redoubling its.efforts to develop a package of supporting activi-
ties which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence.
A combination of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and
improved infrastructure is foreseen, though a viable package for the poorest
and most remote farmers has yet to be developed. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outined in the Basic Economic Report is
the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity away from
Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial lending is,
therefore, being directed to the provinces as well as to assist the Government
in the preparation of projects to enhance the attractiveness of regional
urban centers. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening
agencies providing services to the urban populace and the development of
low-cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of the dynamic urban
sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce resources from
other high-priority development needs.
24.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will
be difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to
play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infrastruc-
ture development are large and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds
in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes,



- 9 -
mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in rural areas.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help promote
industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and dispersed activities to
complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation and in reducing income
differentials in rural areas.
25.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank Group's share in total
debt outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
26.       As of February 28, 1979, IFC has made commitments totalling $83 mil-
lion in 10 projects in Thailand. IFC's activities have been primarily in
industry and in financial institutions development aimed at mobilizing domestic
resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises. Prospects for
increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private
sector investment activity. In addition, consultations with the Government
have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be needed. These areas
include very large and complex projects such as a proposed sponge iron project
and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the petroleum
and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricultural sector.
In addition, the Corporation expects to continue to help traditional manufac-
turing projects and to assist in financial institutions and money market
developments.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
27.       Total energy consumption in Thailand has increased from 5.31 million
tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to over 11 million tons in 1977, an average
annual growth rate of 10%. Petroleum products account for about 82% of total
energy and hydro for another 8%.
28.       Thailand's energy resources consist of hydro-power, petroleum,
lignite (low-grade coal), oil shale deposits, and natural gas. Hydro potential
(excluding that of two international rivers, the Mekong and the Salween)
totals about 9,900 MW, of which about 3,600 MW or 36% are being exploited or
are under study. Interest has been expressed in developing the considerable
hydroelectric potential of the Mekong River, but political and resettlement
problems make such development unlikely in the near term.



- 10 -
29.       Proven petroleum reserves total about one million barrels with pro-
duction currently at about 100,000 barrels annually (less than 0.2% of annual
consumption). The total lignite reserves were estimated at about 235 million
tons, of which about 110-130 million tons are proven reserves. Production was
about 520,000 tons in 1977. EGAT has plans to utilize the known reserves for
power generation by adding two units of 150 MfW each at the Mae Moh thermal
plant. A recent estimate made by the Bank indicated that lignite reserves
might be as high as 650 million tons in total and may ultimately be capable of
supporting 2,000 MW of electricity generating capacity. There are extensive
oil shale reserves estimated at 2.700 million tons but oil troduction from
shale is still uneconomic. The two most promising natural gas finds so far
discovered in the Gulf of Thailand indicate a proven reserve of at least
1.1 trillion cubic feet (capable of producing about 27,000-43,000 barrels/day
oil equivalent for 20 years) from one field area and probably reserves of
about 3.5 trillion cubic feet of somewhat inferior quality gas from the other
field area. Recently, the Bank made a loan (S-10-TH) to help finance the
engineering and related studies required prior to the construction of a
pipeline which would carry the natural gas from the off-shore production areas
to the principal market areas, including the Bang Pakong power station which
is the subject of this report. The substitution of gas for imported fuel oil
in electricity generation will considerably reduce demand for fuel oil and
result in foreign exchange savings estimated to rise from about $50 million a
year to about $400 million a year in the mid-1990s in current prices, an
average of about $150 million per year. The realized foreign exchange savings
will depend on the level of gas used and the final production costs.
30.       An Energy Master Plan study is being undertaken by the National
Energy Authority (NEA) financed by the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), with the Asian Development Bank as the executing agency. The Plan
will define a program for meeting Thailand's energy requirements up to the
year 2000. It is expected that the study will begin in August 1979 and be
concluded in January 1981. A study of the refinery expansion will be under-
taken as the first stage and results will be available by January/February
1980. During the second stage of the study, apart from looking into various
issues relating to the energy sector in Thailand, ADB will: (a) review the
present structure of energy demand in Thailand, and forecast future energy
demand by energy type in the major sectors of the economy; (b) develop an
energy supply scenario and the optimum mix between the various sources of
energy; and (c) set out a detailed energy conservation program sector by
sector with targeted savings and operational procedures.
Sector Utilities
31.       The three state enterprises comprising the sector are operated
efficiently as separate autonomous entities. However, overall macro policy
planning and coordination need strengthening as mentioned in paragraph 32.
The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), to which the proposed
loan would be made, has major responsibility for generation and transmission;
it sells energy in bulk to large industrial consumers and to the two power
distribution authorities. The Metropolitan Electrical Authority (MEA) is
responsible for supplying electricity in the Bangkok metropolitan area, and
the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) supplies electricity to the rest of



- 11 -
the country. EGAT accounts for 94% of all electricity generated, the balance
being generated by PEA in areas not yet connected to the grid and by several
self-generating industries. The three utilities' conservative commercial out-
look needs to be changed in view of the Government's accelerated rural electri-
fication program.
Sector Coordination
32.       In its 1976 Sector Report (No. 1794-TH) the Bank recommended that
planning and coordination among the three power utilities and the various
Government agencies concerned with energy production and distribution should
be strengthened to enable the sector to meet efficiently the country's demand
for energy. In 1977, the Committee on Power Policy and Development (CPPD)
was formed to oversee the functioning and development of the power sector and
to provide overall sector control. However, since its formation, CPPD has not
yet developed into an operating entity capable of coordinating planning
activities, reviewing the utilities' development programs and projects or
determining the adequacy of tariffs to maintain the sector's financial via-
bility. Currently six ministries and other government agencies besides CPPD,
EGAT, MEA and PEA have a say in sector decision making. Recently the cabinet
proposed legislation for the establishment of a Ministry of Science, Energy
and Technology, but it has not been decided whether the proposed ministry
would have overall responsibility for the energy sector in place of the
various ministries and government agencies.  During negotiations RTG repre-
sentatives concurred that there was a need to study the issue of sector
planning and coordination and it was agreed that by December 31, 1979, RTG
would submit to the Bank for its review and comment proposals for a study
to improve sector coordination (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Further discussion on the sector coordination issue would take place within
the context of the ongoing Power Sector loan appraisal. It was also agreed
that for the purpose of determining the optimal sequence of its system develop-
ment, EGAT would, not later than January 1, 1980, undertake a study of future
generation and transmission projects which shall include an in-depth review of
the load forecast. The findings of the study will be submitted to the Govern-
ment and to the Bank by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.06(a) and (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Sector Financing and Tariffs
33.       Tariff policies proved adequate throughout the late 1960s and early
1970s, and the financial position of the sector remained strong; in fact, all
three agencies were able to reduce their tariffs periodically due to conserva-
tive financial management, economies of scale and consequent reduction in unit
costs. However, following the fuel crisis, the sector's financial position
deteriorated. The Government took various steps to cushion the effect of the
fuel crisis (removing fuel taxes and duties and subsidizing the cost of fuel
to EGAT) but these tended to distort the financial position. Bank staff,
after their review of the sector in 1976, recommended: (i) restoration of
fuel taxes and customs duties; (ii) removal of the fuel oil subsidy to EGAT;
(iii) provision of a fuel adjustment clause in the tariff schedules so that
variations in fuel prices would be passed on to consumers; and (iv) an increase
in tariffs for FY77-79 to cover the sector's financial gap between cash
generation and borrowings, and construction costs as well as to compensate for



- 12 -
increased operating costs. The staff also recommended that a tariff study be
undertaken to establish a simplified tariff system which would reflect the
costs to the economy of meeting demand for electricity. The tariff levels and
structure would also ensure that sector revenues would be adequate to meet the
sector's financial objectives and to provide for any income distribution
objectives (subsidizing poor consumers).
34.       The Government has acted upon all the above-mentioned recommendations.
An increase in sector tariffs averaging about 29% was implemented on August
1, 1977; fuel subsidies were discontinued; taxes on fuel were restored; and a
fuel adjustment clause was introduced. The tariff study, whose recommendations
were to be implemented by October 1, 1978, was delayed because of changes in
load forecasts in the utilities development programs, and is still being
carried out; those recommendations that will be agreed between Government and
the Bank are expected to be implemented by December 31, 1979.
35.       The steps taken by RTG restored the financial viability of the
utilities and largely removed the need for further budgetary assistance.
However, the large financial requirements for PEA's accelerated rural electri-
fication program called for cross-funding within the sector to ensure that
adequate funds would be available for PEA's program. The appropriate level of
tariffs and cross-funding are among the issues being studied under the tariff
study referred to above (paragraph 33). Under Loan 1527-TH (Accelerated Rural
Electrification Project) it was agreed that the sector as a whole would earn
an annual rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation of 7% for
FY78 and FY79 and 9% in FY80 and thereafter. A drought in 1977-78 and problems
in the supply of fuel oil caused hydro reservoirs to be drawn down below
normal operating levels. Consequently, fuel oil based generation was higher
than forecast for FY77-79, increasing EGAT's operating costs substantially.
The effect of the increased fuel consumption, coupled with increased costs due
to wage awards, reduced EGAT's and the sector's rates of return to 3.2% and
5.3%, respectively, for FY78. During negotiations, it was agreed that a
tariff increase of approximately 30% is now required to restore the sector's
financial viability, and it was agreed that a rate of return of not less than
7% would be targetted for both EGAT and the sector as a whole during FY80 and
FY81 and of not less than 8% thereafter (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Implementation
of the tariff increase required to achieve a 7% rate of return in FY80 is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Bank Participation in the Sector
36.       Sector growth has been considerable.  Electricity demand and energy
generation grew annually on average by 14% and 16%, respectively, since 1970
reaching 2,138 MW and 12,493 GWh in 1978. The Bank has helped finance nine
projects with 8 loans to EGAT, totaling $282 million, and one loan to PEA of
$25 million. EGAT's projects have included dam construction, equipment
for hydro and thermal power generation, transmission and substation facilities.
Six projects have been completed and are operating satisfactorily; two are
under construction.



- 13 -
37.       The most recent loan (No. 1527-TH), the first to PEA, is helping
finance the rural electrification program. The project is still in an early
stage and some delays have arisen due to difficulties over procurement. At
present only about 27% of all households in Thailand have electricity, an
increase from about 25% in 1976, and although the largest proportion of households
connected are situated in Bangkok and its environs, the greatest growth
rate is now taking place in the provinces. The Bank intends to continue
its role in assisting the rural electrification program and it is expected
that by 1983 about 45% of the population will have access to electricity. The
proposed loan will enable EGAT to meet the country's increasing electricity
demand including that of the rural electrification program.
38.       The last power project performance audit report made in March 1978
for the South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan 790-TH) indicated that
the main objectives of the project had been met. The project was completed on
time and within the original cost estimate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
39.       In 1976, EGAT approached the Bank for assistance in financing the
project which had been demonstrated as necessary to meet the increasing load
growth during the Bank's review of the sector earlier that year. EGAT commis-
sioned Black & Veatch International (BVI), consulting engineers from the USA,
to carry out a feasibility study and assist EGAT in the preparation of the
proposed project. The project was appraised in August/September 1978.
Negotiations were held in Bangkok, Thailand from February 14 to February 28,
1979. The Thai delegation was led by Mr. Suphat Sutatum, Minister of Finance
and Mr. Kasame Chatikavanij, General Manager of EGAT and Minister of Industry.
Project Description and Objectives
40.       The project includes:  (a) land procurement and site development of
a thermal power station at Bang Pakong which would ultimately have four units
of 500 MW capacity each; (b) construction of civil works including power plant
structures and buildings, fuel supply handling and storage systems; water
cooling systems, make-up water, etc.; (c) supply and installation of the
boiler, turbo-generator, auxiliary electrical, mechanical and miscellaneous
equipment for the first 500 MW generating unit; (d) construction of a 230 kV
switchyard at Bang Pakong, and substations at Rangsit and Bang Kapi and
110 km of the 230 kV transmission lines linking Bang Pakong power station to
the EGAT grid; (e) supply of construction equipment; (f) engineering services;
and (g) a study of future generating and transmission projects. The project
will help meet the country's growing electricity demand including that of the
accelerated rural electrification program.



- 14 -
Location and Size
41.       The Bang Pakong thermal plant will be located about 60 km southeast
of Bangkok at the mouth of the Bang Pakong River on the northern side of the
Gulf of Thailand. The project is a noteworthy step in the development of
EGAT's power system in that the 500 MW units to be installed are 200 MW larger
than the largest units currently in operation in EGAT's power stations. On a
least cost evaluation basis, the 500 MW unit is justified in relation to the
number and size of existing generating units and an estimated maximum demand
of about 4,000 MW when the Bang Pakong station starts operating in 1983.
The Borrower, EGAT
42.       EGAT was established in 1968 by the merger of three public power
utilities (the Yanhee Electricity Authority, the Northeast Electricity
Authority and the Lignite Authority) for the purpose of increasing the
efficiency of the electricity supply throughout the country and to coordinate
the generation and transmission systems. It is a well-organized and well-operated
utility with a considerable degree of autonomy. Staff are well trained and
competent. EGAT has an able, energetic and highly regarded General Manager.
Future Investments, Sector Plans and Financial Planning
43.       EGAT's energy sales are forecast to increase at an average annual
rate of 11.5% through 1986. The capital expenditures, including interest
during construction, for the constructiuLn uf Lile piUnL aLii equipment required
to meet such growth are estimated at $5.5 billion at current prices through
the period FY78-86. EGAT's generation will continue to be based mainly on the
use of fuel oil but natural gas and lignite-based generation is being developed.
The Bang Pakong and South Bangkok plants are likely to be fueled by natural
gas now being developed, and the Mae Moh plant, being constructed with financial
assistance from the Asian Development Bank, will be fired with nearby reserves
of lignite. To meet the construction program, EGAT plans to borrow about 56%
abroad to cover foreign costs, 16% locally, obtain 6% from the Government as
equity and provide 22% from internal cash generation.
44.       EGAT's financial position has been sound although a tariff increase
is now required to offset the effects of adverse weather and increased fuel
costs (see paragraph 35). In addition to earning a satisfactory rate of
return o. ...ually revalued assets which should enable EG^T to contribute an
average of about 21% towards the costs of its construction program during the
period 1980-1983, EGAT has agreed to maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more
than 60:40, the maximum being 58:42 in 1981 (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Debt-service coverage will range between 1.3 and 3.0 times on an
annual basis between 1978 and 1986; EGAT will limit its short- and medium-term
debt to 15% of total debt (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $297 million, excluding
interest during construction, and includes $17.5 million equivalent in duties
and taxes and a foreign exchange component of $184 million. Estimates are



- 15 -
based on recent bid prices for similar works and equipment in the region.
Total contingencies amount to $57 million, about 24% of base cost at mid-1978
prices, and were calculated on the basis of assumed annual rates of escalation
of 8% for 1978, 7.5% for 1979 and 7% thereafter for civil works; and 7% for
1978, 6.5% for 1979 and 6% thereafter for plant and equipment and transmission
facilities. Costs are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary.
Financing
46.       Project costs will be met by the proposed Bank loan of $80 million
(about 29% of total project costs net of taxes and duties); a loan of $22 mil-
lion equivalent from KFAED, suppliers' credits amounting to about $63 million,
commercial bank loans of about $19 million and a mixture of EGAT's self-generated
funds, local borrowing and equity of $113 million equivalent. The KFAED loan
was negotiated in March 1979, and is expected to be considered by the KFAED
Board in May 1979. The financing arrangements with suppliers and commercial
banks are still provisional; EGAT has asked for cash and credit terms in its
bid documents for the equipment to be financed by suppliers' credits but may
resort to commercial bank financing if better terms can be obtained than those
offered by suppliers. Most of the major items would be financed by more than
one of the four co-lenders. The Bank loan would be used to finance the
foreign exchange cost of the turbo-generator package, auxiliary electrical,
mechanical and miscellaneous equipment and part of the engineering services.
The KFAED loan would finance part of the foreign exchange cost of the boiler
plant package, transmission lines and substations. Commercial bank loans
would finance the foreign exc1idLIi1 cost of conoLructLl.o             Z civil
works, part of engineering and consultancy services. The remaining foreign
cost required for the boiler plant package, transmission lines and substations
would be financed by suppliers' credits. The Borrower and the Guarantor gave
their assurances that financing arrangements with KFAED, suppliers and commer-
cial banks would be finalized no later than dates specified by the Bank
(Section 6.01(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation and Construction
47.       EGAT will be responsible for implementing the project.  The consul-
tants, BVI, will provide engineering services and construction supervision.
Installation of equipment in the power plant and substations will be undertaken
by EGAT's own workforce supervised by manufacturers' field engineers. The
230 KV transmission line will be c3natructed by thc suppli_rz _. a supply and
erect basis. The target date for completion of construction work is December
1983. EGAT will also employ consultants, not yet selected, to undertake a
study of future generation and transmission projects. EGAT possesses adequate
experience in construction of thermal power plants and its record in project
implementation has been good.
Procurement
48.       Materials and equipment financed by the Bank will be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines with
preference of 15% (or the custom duties, if less) being granted to local
manufacturers. Contracts for the purchase of minor equipment items not
exceeding the equivalent of $150,000 each and not exceeding, in the aggregate,



- 16 -
the equivalent of $2.0 million will be awarded in accordance with local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of items financed
by KFAED will follow its normal procedures.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made at the rate
of 100% of foreign exchange cost of the turbo-generator package; 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and material; 100% of the
ex-factory cost of equipment manufacture2 l^cally; and 65% of total expendi-
tures for equipment and materials procured locally off-the-shelf. Disburse-
ments for the engineering services would be at 50% of the foreign exchange
costs. Disbursements by the Bank are expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
Justification and Benefits
50.       EGAT has sufficient installed capacity to meet its energy and
capacity requirements until FY82. However, the expected increase in energy
requirements in EGAT's system, by FY83, would be around 2,000 GWh a year,
equivalent to about 270 MW in capacity at a plant factor of 0.85. This will
be difficult to provide from hydro projects. With the commissioning of Unit
No. 5 at South Bangkok Thermal Plant, that site has been fully developed.
EGAT also plans to utilize fully the known lignite reserves for power genera-
tion by adding two units of 150 MW each at the Mae Moh Thermal Plant; however,
any further development would require additional drilling, siting and other
studies. Similarly, nuclear power could not be installed before 1987-88 due
to the long gestation period required for the first unit. A thermal plant
fueled by gas and/or fuel oil is, therefore, the only alternative and the
500 MW size was chosen after a comparison with alternative planting up
sequences using 300 MW units. The sequence, including a 500 MW unit at Bang
Pakong followed by the Khao Laem hydroproject, was found to be the least cost
solution at discount rates up to 11.4%. The boiler's capability of being
dual-fired is an additional attribute of the project because it will allow
EGAT flexibility to utilize either natural gas or oil.
51.       Using the average consumer tariff revenues for FY82 required to earn
8% on revalued net fixed assets of the sector, adjusted to 1978 price levels,
as a proxy for the benefits of the project, the internal economic rate
of return is estimated at 13%.
Ecology
52.       The proposed power station will be located in an area with little
development and very few inhabitants. The site is virtually uninhabited;
consequently, there are no resettlement problems. The nearest town is about
4 km distant, outside the track of the prevailing wind from the site.
Products from the combustion of natural gas are harmless and burning gas,
therefore, poses no hazard. In view of possible future use of fuel oil, if
alternative uses for the natural gas are developed, consultants have conducted
a study on the effects of stack emmission, and on the basis of their recommend-
ations, the stack will be built to a height of 122 m in order to keep the
maximum ground level concentration of sulfur dioxide concentrations below the
standards prescribed by the US Environmental Protection Agency.



- 17 -
Risks
53.       EGAT possesses adequate experience in the construction of thermal
power plants and its record in project implementation has been very good. The
consultants, BVI, are well known internationally and have had long experience
in Thailand. No risks due to typhoon, earthquake or flood are expected. One
possible uncertainty would have been the bearing capacity of the soil foundation.
However, tests conducted have indicated satisfactory results.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In addition to the
features of the proposed project which are referred to in the text and listed
in Section III of Annex III, another feature of particular interest is that
the implementation of a tariff increase to enable EGAT and the electricity
sector to earn a rate of return of not less than 7% in FY80 is a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOIMENDATIONS
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 12, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -
Annex I
P.g. Iof 5
TABLE 3A
ThAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   THAILAD                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             514.0                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      238.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0        200.0      410.0            616.0       432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        64.0       247.0      284.0            522.0       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YTAR
(MILLIONS)                         26.6         36.3       44.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.7           15.0       16.8             30.1        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KK.                         52.0         71.0      86.0             156.8       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. E4. AGRICULTUJ. LAND    112.0           152.0     185.0            794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.1        44.8       43.7             40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.9        52.3       53.2             55.4        52.8         53.5
65 YTS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          2.9       3.1               3.2         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GRONYH RATS (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.2          3.0       2.9               2.3         2.7         2.5
URBAN                                5.1          5.0       4.6              5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.9         41.4      34.9              34.6        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.8         10.7        8.9              8.7        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.2        3.1              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        405.6    2680.2
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..           14.0      37.0              22.1       14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               68.0        100.0     104.7             106.8      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIgS (PERCENT OF
REQUIREIENTS)                     96.0        103.0     107.0             108.7       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            47.0         52.2      50.0              57.7        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          8.4           *-      14.6              17.0       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       10.4          5.3         ..              4.0         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.0           55.5       58.0             59.0        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..         80.0       56.3             44.0        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0       25.0             21.9        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                 ..         60.0      69.0              58.3       68.5          79.0
RURAL                                 ''         10.0       16.0              9.8        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                 ..         17.0      40.0              28.6       37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 ..         65.0       58.0             66.6        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 ..          8.0       36.0             14.8        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7800.0       7070.0    6750.0            4103.1     9359.2        2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       6650.0    4330.0            1520.2      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1340.0 .fL   890.0      770.0             657.1       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                 ,,        280.0      290.0            145.5       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 ''       1380.0    1140.0            1011.8      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         31.0       19.0             19.0        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5 jf       5.8        5.5              5.2          X           5.2
URBAN                                5X3f         5-9        5-5              5.2                      5.0
RURAL                                5.6          5.8        5.5              5.4                      5 4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..          ..          2.0
URBAN                                                                                           2.3
RURAL                                                                                     2             .3 27
kCCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                       24.6             39.1        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                  ..        63.0 XL       .                .          .          67.8
RURAL                                 ..         13.0                                    10.3         34.1



- 19-                                            Annex I
PFee 2 of 5
TEAILIID - SOCIAL INDICATOR8 DATA SBtET
RERnnlCE 01o0ps (ADJUSTED AVERACES
TRAILAND                      - IIOST UCET ESTIMATE)S
SAlll       SABlE    NEXt HIGHER
NDOST RECr      GCOGCRAPIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b IESTIMATE        U RCION Lc   GROUP Id    GROUP L
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                136.0        81.0      78.0             95.6       75.8         99.8
FiALE               128.0         77.0      75.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0         17.0      25.0             43.3       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                6.0         14.0      21.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT Of SECONDARY) 19.0         24.0      13.0             11.3        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0         35.0      30.0             30.0       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         20.0         16.0      21.0             25.4       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0        79.0      82.0             84.0       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         5.0       7.0              9.3        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         78.0     135.0             97.6       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER TWOUSANED
POPULATION                          2.3         7.0      17.0             21.8       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        24.0        ..             25.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       1.7              4.6        1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0      16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.3         47.3      46.9             33.2       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              82.0        '8.0      76.0             48.4       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.7          7.4        **
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6      45.6             38.9       37.8         33.8
KALE                                 52.7        49.3      48.6             48.6       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               49.8        43.9      42.6             28.4       20.9         17.3
ECONOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8 A       23.8  i   14.0             17.3       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9   h    49.7 E   42.2               45.6       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    6.2 /b       6.1 Li    7.6              6.5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9 /h      15.9 L    19.1             17.3       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOlE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     120.0            140.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      90.0            112.8       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               ..      143.7        319.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      93.0             76.8       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      11.0             27.7       22.9         19.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      28.0             40.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic    East Asia & Pacific;   Id  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
($551-1135) per capita. 1976);   /f  1962;   LE  Percent of population in Bangkok ietropolitan area;
/h  1962-63, rural only;   L  Rural only.
September 1978



- 20 -
Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Page 3 of   5
N=g: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means., excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country it  each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple papulation-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Mast crcent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or pernanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishoents permanently staffed by
lIe fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and nedi-
NP PER CAPITA (US0) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissionspejpp hospital bed - Total number of adnissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the nanumber of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (per.... pra  houeol)-.oal   ran, and caal
P5PULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quartets
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be iscluded in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popola-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of u.ban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, sod rural - Average nun.-
cf data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per roam in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings ex-lude non-permanent structures and
Pen  sq. kb. - Mid-your population per square kiln.eter (100 hectares)                    unoccapied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (Percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kh. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-1 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Ad'usted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rat-s of total and urban mid-year populatioss for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary schoal-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may esceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average eding in 1975 for moot recent estimate.                      sbove the official school age.
Crude death taco (per thousand) - innual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
tear population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational., or teacher training instructions for pupils
ross repr-ductio  raLe - Average number of daughters a unman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          elude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
rac.ily plaroing - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-contrul devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
marrced .onen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use blrth-contrrl                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
de-i-es to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD A14D NUTRITION                                                                     CONsUMPTION
Inden or food prodoction per capita (l-9ll=ii) - Inden number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Pansenger oars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                b-oadcasts to general public per thousand of population; emcludes unlicensed
exporrt, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in yearo when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years ma' not be comparable since noet countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for sor-                 abolished licensing.
ral acticity and health considering envirormental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast tb gener&
s-eights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capIta supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Ne.ssaser circulation  (per  chusand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Rfquirenents for all countries established by IISDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general newo.  It is considered to
a miniomum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a veek.
of aninal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per  eear - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Sunvey.
Per capita prtein supply itom  animal and  ulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMiENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Econonica-ly active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoun-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
und in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                              tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentaga nf total labor fence.
fEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in tarning, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life eop-vta-cv at birth (years) - Average ounher Pf years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
renaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1971,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, oafuring and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
nfant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                'emale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Acc-s_to safe wtr (percen  ofpplto)-toa,ubn   n ural -                                     Chose are T170 adjusted participotico  rates reflecting  ne-se
Numbe- of people (total, urban. and rural) with reasonable access to                      rr-r  of rho pnpulatioo.  ed tip  -n   -rend.
alfe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   -conomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 srd 65 and over to
uncootaminated water such an that from protected boreholes, sprilng,                     the lab.r force in age group of 15-64 pears.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
is uc orbar area a pobl ir f-ontai  or orandpost located not more                   INCCME DISTRIBUTTON
shut 200 voters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
tonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access  Iould                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest .0 percent
imply that rho hoasewife or memhers of the household do cot have to                     of households.
cp-cd a disproportiorute part of the day in fetching the family's
tarts noeds                                                                         POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
Ac--eon to  Eccreta dusposal (percent of poynlation) - total, urb a                     Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural  -
ro   l - itbeo  nf poople (total, urban, and rural) served by encreta                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level belos which a minimal
dist.o.l at percentages of their rospeotive populutions.  Excrrta                        nutrition.ally adequate diet pi-s essential mom-fend requi-remets us not
 p      _      -c.C, - i ......    h._o '...<C iori s, th orl...a:  af for.a...
treatment, of hu.an excreta und saste-wat-r by .water-borne systems                 Estimated relative poverty income level (1$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rtthe . cf p.t prsii-s and sci.lat i-sta.lations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income lev leeles  than one-third
PcPu ariorpeth u-ian- Population divided bh nauber of cra-tfcina                           per capita personal income of the roantry.
ci ro  on', qua-ified   ona -edioa-  u-f.vol at un---ruity level.                    Estimated po pI           l er                   vel (percent) - orban and tonal -
Po-nsatio- per curt un&ptor    fo. i  ulattio n   li-_ded by number of                     p..c-no  p-apurtion  (urban and rural) who ar  either "absclute poor" or
pra-t-icng .ale and toale grucadtc curaes, practical nurses, and                         "relative port" whichever is greater.
Pconooic and Sociau auta Dicisi-O
Cenvene atnAv-in und1 P-riections Department



- 21-                                                                                 ANNEX I
P?R. 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual    ____Projected                                                    - Growth rates (%)          ___  1975 share
1965      1970       1976       1977      1978 /a     1979       1980       1985   1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90  of GDP (%)
A. National Acouts
(Million US$ at 1975 pri-ro)
1.  Gross d-ostic product          6,843.8  10,323.0  15,712.6  16,685 5  18,138.9  19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7    7.7               7.8       7.1      7.0        100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade         -44.3       42.8    -507.7    -978 1    -704.3    -572.9    -533.8    -518.2                                                   -3.2
3.  Gross domestic income           6,799.5  10,365.8  15,204.9  15,707 4  17,434.6  18,822.3  20,159.1  28,738.5    7.2              9.5       7.3       7.0        96.8
4.  Imports                         1,659.9   2,989.4   3,699.1   4,460 8   4,896.8   5,082.8   5,440.4   7,507.8    8.6              6.7       6.7       6.8        23.5
5.  Exports - volume              -1,593.2  -2,274.8  -3,808.4  -4,506 9  -4,641.3  -4,481.1  -4,862.1  -7,448.5    9.1             -0.3       8.8       8.7         24.2
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT  -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528 8  -3,937.0  -3,908.1  -4,328.3  -6,930.3    7.1                 5.2      10.0      8.8         21.0
7.  Resoorre gap - adjusted
for TOT                        111.0      671.9      398.4      932.1      959.8   1,174.7   1,112.1       577.5                                                2.5
8.  Total consumption               5,302.3   8,007.0  11,709.5  12,370.3  13,579.1  14,809.7  15,740.4  21,253.9    7.3              9.4       6.2      6.1         74.5
9.  Investment                      1,608.2   3,030.6   3,893.8   4,269.2   4,815.3   5,187.2   5,530.8   8,062.0    8.5             10.2       7.6      7.5         24.8
10.  National savings                1,576.4   2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5   3,794.2   3,970.7   4,300.3   7,037.7    6.4              9.5      10.0      9.6         22.1
11.  Domestic savings adjusted
for TOT                      1,497.2   2,358.7   3,495.5   3,337.1   3,855.5   4,012.6   4,418.7   7,484.6    6.9              9.7      10.9       9.3         22.2
12.  GDP at current TJS$            4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  21,881.8  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3             15.2      14.9      13.4
8.  Sector Outout
(Share of GDP)                  4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  21,881.8  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3             15.2      14.9      13.4
1.  Agricolture                       0.391      0.346      0.301      0.281      0.271      0.264      0.258      0.229
2.  Industry                           0.208      0.227     0.269      0.2118     0.299      0.304      0.309      0.335
3.  Services                           0.401      0.427     0.430      0.4'i1     0.430      0.432      0.432      0.437
C.  Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  Export price iides                 46.43     48.04      91.65      89.15    103.13    113.40    123.48    172.32    5.6          12.7       7.2       5.1
2.  Import price i,des                 47.76     47.15    105.75    114.12    121.58    130.03    138.71    185.20    7.5              6.7      6.1       5.0
3.  Terms of trade ilden               97.22    101.88      86.67      78.10      84.83      87.21      89.02      93.04   -1.8        5.5       1.1      0.1
4.  GDP deflator ( 15S)                59.22      63.39    103.64    108.12    116.07       124.22    132.42    189.21    5.2         6.8       7.3       6.0
5.  Annal  verage exchange rate    20.80          20.80     20.40      20. 0
D.  Selected Indic i,rbm                        1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                    3.56      3.32      3.80     3.97
2.  Import eta ticity                       1.09      0.87      0.95     0.97
3.  Average no lonal savings rate           0.24      0.20      0.23     0.26
4.  Marginal stiiou-l savings rote          0.18      0.25      0.32     0.35
5.  Isports/GD0                             0.27      0.26      0.26     0.26
6.  Tnvestment GDP                          0.27      0.26      0.27     0.28
7.  Resource gEp/GDP                        0.04      0.06      0.04     0.01
Valus added /b                    _ Labor force /c                         V.A. ser worker lb Ic
-  9ut.tabor  ne and Pro dctivity in1975                          _Stml1is                 Z              nillion              X                U                 f averaee
1.  Agr-cultor                                                   4,559             31.3               13.4              75.7               340                 41.5
2.  Industry                                                     4,442             30.4                1.4               7.9             3,170                356.7
3.  Services                                                     5,588             38.3                2.9              16.4             1,930                235.4
Total/average                                            14_ 89             100.0              17.7              100.0               820                100.0
P.  PublIc Pinanre (Z ot GDP)                    1965      1970       1974       1975      1976        1977/a
(Central Government)
1.  Current revenue                         13.5       13.8       14.5       13.6      13.4      14.6
2.  Tax revenue                             12.3       12.5       13.5       12.0       12.1     13.3
3.  Current expenditures                    10.5       12.6       10.7       12.1      13.0      12.5
4.  Budgetary savings                        2.9        1.2        3.7        1.5        0.4      1.1
5.  Total public investment                  6.5        7.7        3.8        4.9        5.3       5.4
C.  Puoel spQorts (Current_ SLmillions)          65.0     112.0      628.6      711.7      833.7      923.0
(X of total imports intl. NFS)               8.3        8.0       18.4      20.0       21.1       19.7
/a  Preliminary.
Jb  At current market prices.
cr Estimate.



a          a      *a    -        C           a     50               Ca
C a Ca   -o-aaao'aaaa  CCC-'-  'a  a'-aaan-   aCCOY  -0---o  'aa4aCa'aa'a-a.a-SC                 -oClozonee              a       0 On-a C  a      C C,--CS
naaanna'C  aao-a  na  aaanae.a  aana  Can  Caaaa  aaaan 0                                nan    a nan-n        ,-.        an      a       0 sawS
a.aCaaaC   a an-aoan a Ca  nCn00nC                                           aaaja  C
aaaa.-n-n-a.naaa-C      Care'- nin    an- aa    'a,-<             0  OaO<,                                          en      -a aCe  C  nOCO
on-Coon-a  aa       al-a anon a              COO  C   aaaaa  C an  Ca  ma  a'    aC    'OCO           a  aOOaa  a  -0-0,.
n-an-CO  -nanan      a nC    Cna nan    a    aanna  a-n- aCC,n  n-a    0-.-anan    C 0- C-' naa-  OOan C lOan              Ca,aOoCO,aL
CC  a naaa  an  2-            ,aanaia-a'---a        C aaa-aan  aanaaacaaaeaaaanaaa0,.an                                a     an-  a   anaa
Ca-na                  aaaaaaaa,-    aanOO  Ca-   aaan.               an a J                       aV
n-n-na       aC  aa-aan    an  aa-auCa[a'        a        naaaa  a 2n-;';2aaz,2sxma                                         C n-a  a  ag0.g nSa
anon      - at'    n-a-,a   ja' a Caan-  a'- ala  an   a-a,--   a   C a   0-na'--   -an   ,-aaa   C   a aO C ala   anIon- 00O"Caa" ma
Via   nan       aan,a   a   anna <a       an  I- anna    'l n    -a  an  an        a '-51- nan   -Ia       aana-,   ana
a  a    a                 n-,.,a,aa          aaa,oa  0,-a  no a aanaH    a..a   a an  a   anna  a a-.-0  aaar' ara  a aaaC,an   -aaa-
SC n'C              an  aaaan-a.aa    a'ana'aonx ma-  a a-a                                                      2 
On    naa  aa  a ana  nib  naa
Ca   anal,   aa  an                                                    a   ,- ,   -. --a,an      nan,
a    an-an-   aaa         -P   aaan a   a aa-aa-aaaaaaCa                               a a   o- a CC  a-an  a    a  0   a -a  a  sag  no-
n-an    a,a     a a a    oC naaaa,-   anal-a  a.-   -,a-.   aa.a a                  n a a a        p -a  no-as  n    0, a   a ,--a  a an0,-sa a   an
-Ca              a a         n  aa,Cnn    naoa  a    aaaanan  a a-.aa   pa                -      --   a no an  a    n a   a a <anna-an    00CC  I
an-     -a-a -0  a,-         aa  saa  a-a    ani..  -an   a         a ann-n  Co-.n           a       a   0a   n a  n        0,   a aiD    -.aaCs          00
ann   ' na       C -a        an  no,-- 500   n-n-a  aC   a. a.      a   a,-   oar'   Ca -C -         5   a 'an an                    a  a as  a-a-   CC
an  a   a           no  -a   'ma   - -C  CC   CO C         a   CaC  a a   0-             -  a      i a                     "a  a  sPa- 0,0,  '5'5OO
an a a -a <IC aaC an n-ag aa C a Ca a - ao a a a a Ca - - Baa an22
C      a-           5C   an   na  C an   a             a      C 0,       an  -      a a   a  u,an                     no  a  a-aa
r
"SC     'a  a       a         a         naanna            a         a    'aa     a   an  a       a  a   a   an                     on  n   nos  p         p
H--'       a             '  'a    aaar'aa                 a    C        C   a   a       C      o - a                      a-  a   as
nae     n-C         a            aa     a   a-aC   na   a                 C                              a a a                              r''m-       In
Ca         a         2        C     ann    C-a   a               nr2       a   2               a a a                                            I;-
a a     CC          C         aaa    ag            a                    a          2                  na   a                                H
aa         a                        aCala   a                    n-n     a   ,-
a-a-    an          a                   a'  anna'  in   a                 an'    s   a-   a                 a a                                a
CC         a                    a                a                 a     n   0   C
aaa     na          a            CO   C       nah         a               an     a   C   0,                a'                                  a
2                C               Ca      n   -   a
CC         a                    C    C Ca'       0                 C              5
no      aa          a                   a       n         a               a
an         0,                  0,      00
nic
n-C                             S      Z
Em
P      C                                                                                                                     F
-i
C CCCCC       aaaCaa-CCC-C,na-a a-  CCC CCCCC-a C   C   C0-.CCCC C   n-CC   C-a CCCCCCCaaCC
C -   -         --   CCCC'aa-                 C-n Cl         t-CC   C  0,C   CC'C    no                 i       Cj
C
a    , CCCCCCCa'CC,n-C  Il-a'-                                                                                                                                I     -r
a
-a                                 aa      - -   -         --   Ca'a'aa    ' '    Ca'  CC  'CC        C   C'aC   C-n'C'-OC          C C  C Ca0C   CCC                        C
a ,.CCC
00
a    -                                                                 -   -  -  -                    -              I                 I                   ,     j  -00
In-a-   CCa'   Ca'      -aa     C   IIa       CC   -, C         C     II  I CCC   f C    WOO
CC-nCCC   a-n-Cl   CC   -nCa'C   CCCCCC    CCC   CCCOOCCC CCC   C'  a.aa-CCC C   Ca'   CC  C  CCa-a.C  an. C
CC-na-Ca   C C-nO  a'C   CCC C   C-CC-aC-C   C,C    CCCCCaCCCOC    C   CCC'- C CC   -na-a   Ca'CCaC0a'C-n CC
a   CCCCCCC   - - -   CC   CC  -n-n    n0-aa0Cn-C.'-CCa-              C C  C CCI    a-CC         I     
C C C
C CCC-C.aC   aJCC   a'a  an-CC   CCCCC    CC C   CCCCCCCCCC    C   CaCao'-  CC   Can.   CCC   -aCCC Con -0,C0,
I         -l
Ca' C   C CCCCa'aO   0--a-a   J
-               a      a'       -             2--aa-  ]    I
0.   l         -       I  l1         Co
a' al-a  CC   CC C    a -a         '-'-CCC C    CIa0
C   CCCC  .0 CC   Ca C   C C'-CCCC  &a- a.-ac
I-a'      0-I
a-Ca'ICC-n-n a--C   C CaC-a C CCC                                   C
C   CCCC  C  C    CCC   C a-CCCCCCa. -CCC
C   CCaCCC           Can-   CC  aa CCC'- CC  CCC                       a
-   I       I  -    -  -  -      I
C   Ca    Ca'C   a-Ca-    C        a aCaC-n CC        CI
CCCCCCa'a  CCC  C-n C CC aCaCaCC
C   C-na-C  C  CC     CC   CCCC  C CCC  CCC



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1979)
Loan or                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                        Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                Purpose           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed         388.9      5.5        -
822     1972       RTG                  Education         15.4        -      5.9
864     1972       TOT                  Telecomm          37.0        -      3.2
870     1972      RTG                   Highways          28.6        -      0.9
369     1973      RTG                   Education            -    19.5       5.3
461     1974      RTG                   Irrigation           -      7.0      1.2
977     1974       EGAT                 Power             75.0        -     17.9
992     1974       IFCT                 Industry          12.0        -      0.7
1021    1974      MWWA                  Water             55.0        -     12.6
1149    1975      RTG                   Irrigation        95.0        -     76.1
1198    1976      RTG                   Rural Dev.        21.0 (TW)  -      11.6
1199    1976      RTG                   Livestock          5.0 (TW)  -       3.5
1243    1976       RTG                  Rubber            50.0        -     41.4
1253    1976      TOT                   Telecomm          26.0        -      9.8
1271    1976      RTG                   Education         31.0        -     25.2
1327    1976       IFCT                 Industry          25.0        -     20.1
1393    1977      RTG                   Agriculture       28.0       -      24.7
1468    1977      RTG                   Irrigation        55.0       -      46.8
1485    1977      EGAT                  Power             50.0        -     41.8
1492    1977       IEAT                 Industry           4.8       -       4.5
767     1978      RTG                   Population          -     33.1/a   33.1
1519    1978      RTG                   Highways         110.0       -    100.8
1527    1978      PEA                   Power             25.0        -     25.0
1556    1978      RTG                   Housing            8.6       -       8.5
S-10    1978      NGOT                  Energy             4.9        -      3.8
1620    1978      TOT                   Telecom           90.0       -      90.0
1630    1978      RTG                   Irrigation /b    17.5         -     17.5
1638    1979      RTG                   Urban /b          16.0       -      16.0
Total                                       1,274.7    65.1    647.9
of which has been repaid                    189.6        -
Total now outstanding                       1,085.1    65.1
Amount sold /c                     68.6
of which has been repaid         37.1        31.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA              1,053.6    65.1
Total undisbursed                             608.3    39.6
/a  Of which $3.1 is Norway grant participation.
lb Not yet effective.
Ic Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company              Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co. Ltd.       tion Materials              0.30       -     0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                      -   0.38      0.38
1970   Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975                               Construction
Materials                    28.33   3.75    32.08
1977   Mutual Fund              Money and Capital
Company Limited          Market                         -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar              Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing                  2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries           2.00       -     2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials                -   0.09      0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers              4.85   0.25      5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials             36.00   4.00    40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                   -   0.15      0.15
Total gross commitments                                73.98   9.12    83.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 48.51   2.56    51.07
Net held by the Corporation                            25.47   6.56    32.03
Total undisbursed                                      42.85   0.25    43.10



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _1
(As of February 28, 1979)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date:
July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from delays in contracting architectural consul-
tants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts. The specialist
services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21
have completed their assignment, two are in post and three are being recruited.
Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and extension
activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by the university
staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed
their training. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about
35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 20 months behind schedule partly due
to cumbersome review of procurement and shortage of budget funds. However,
substantial progress has been made during the last three years. Contracting
has reached 98% of civil works and 77% of equipment. Almost 75% of the
construction at project institutions has been completed. All project schools
have started operation. The National Curriculum Development Center constructed
and equipped under the project is playing a key role in the development of new
curricula at primary and secondary levels as part of a comprehensive educational
reform program. An in-depth evaluation of rural secondary schools is being
carried out, but preliminary indications are that the new curriculum for
diversified secondary education is working well in them. The expert services
program is virtually completed and ninety-five percent of fellowship funds
have been committed. The component of the project with greatest problems is
that involving the construction and equipping of ten teacher training colleges.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Physical execution of this component is slow and the status of the colleges is
in a state of flux, as teacher training is being upgraded from secondary to
postsecondary level. The Government is likely to submit to IDA a request for
a postponement of the Closing Date by about nine months.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows the appraisal estimate
with minor delays (3-6 months), mainly related to the adult education system
(AES) component. Of the civil works, which are being carried out in three
phases; the first phase is almost completed, the second is under construction
and the third is still to be awarded. Equipment contracts have been awarded
as follows: 70% for diversified secondary schools and 25% for the AES. Con-
struction at four secondary schools has been completed. Technical assistance
contracts have been signed for both project components. Out of 100 DSS
principals and assistant principals, 52 have completed an overseas training
program on education and 24 are being trained. Out of 46 fellowships for AES,
11 have been concluded and 13 are ongoing.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975, following initial delays. The Bank loan is fully committed
and $33.4 million (90%) had been disbursed up to February 28, 1979. Over 90%
of the local telephone network expansion has been completed; the balance is
expected to be completed by June 1979. After a year's delay in procurement
under a bilateral loan, the installation of the long distance transmission
equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of September 1979, two years and nine months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$16.2 million (62%) had been disbursed up to February 28, 1979. Local
telephone network expansion is expected to be completed on schedule by mid-1979.
After a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation
of long distance transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The
project is now expected to be completed by the end of September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Bid documents for procurement of all project items are expected to
be issued by mid-1979. Action has been initiated on the following items as
required under institutional covenanEs in Lie Loan Agreement: (a) maintenance
of waiting lists for potential telephone subscribers, (b) better utilization
of installed capacity in local telephone networks, and (c) the Economic Study
of Telecommunications in Thailand.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is almost complete and the loan is expected to be
disbursed in full within the next two months.
LoaLl NiU. 119    Sixth Highway (PruviLL;LL  Rvad) Project:  $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance equipment is
under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction of project
roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.  Bids for the final
group of road contracts are being evaluated and awards are expected to be made
during the first quarter of 1979.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equip-
ment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the
pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
for tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
compensated for by increases in projected commodity prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component continues to be satisfactory. The breeding program
continues to be the strongest element while the agronomic program remains weak.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1149  Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about
a year, prospects are good that the project can be completed on schedule
in 1984. A contract for the diversion dam was awarded in October 1977 and the
first of three contracts for canal construction was signed in April 1978.
Most of the equipment for the project is now delivered or on order. The
on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with four pilot projects in operation
and construction of the first large block under way. The consulting services
for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident
staff and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for
monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established
and the reporting of project progress has improved. The first phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the loan, has been completed and
the next phase is continuing. Consultants appointed in August 1978 for the
RID Administration and Organization Study will shortly complete their first
phase reports.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong should be completed by January 1979. A project monitoring
system is being set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the
National Agricultural Extension Project.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Loan No. 1198   Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants good progress
is being made on the engineering of the village roads. The first contract for
construction cf 1'  1m' h's been completed and work has begun on two contracts
for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have delayed the water
supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been delivered,
drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. Progress on
rural electrification is excellent and this component will be completed in
June 1979. Progress on agricultural extension and land settlements is satis-
factory. After a slow start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is
progressing satisfactorily. The program management, with the assistance of a
recently appointed program advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past
work and is gradually introducing an innovative program of research investiga-
tions of great problem-solving relevance to upland crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February 27,
1a7. Fff'active Date:  May 25, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30,
1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are expected to
improve with the delivery of 400 imported Brahman cattle. Furthermore, the
number of permanent project staff has been increased from the initially
approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed in principle to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development has agreed to
conduct a livestock sector review to prepare an integrated development plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project is about one year behind schedule as a result of a
corresponding delay in loan effectiveness. Otherwise, progress on the project
is satisfactory.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with almost
all staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There continues to be
encouraging evidence of adoption of -q technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is now more than one year late because bids for the revised civil
works program were excessively high or unresponsive. Retendering is in
progress, using simplified tender procedures agreed to for one Regional
Training Center and eight provincial construction packages. Tendering has
commenced for the 1979 construction program. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the delays in the civil works program, but both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to progress as scheduled during
1979. Extension and civil works consultants continue to provide DAE with
excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Mlillion
Loan of April 19  IP7&L  'ffective Date:  June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project have been about 85% completed.
Construction of the dam embankment was completed on May 14, 1978 and all other
works are being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine
generating units is expected to be completed on schedule. Although the
reservoir did not reach the level anticipated during the first wet season,
1978 has been a good hydro year and the water situation in the reservoir has
improved. Project costs are likely to be about 20% over estimates, due mainly
to additional grouting work required beneath the main embankment. Project
costs will probably increase further as a result of the recent devaluation of
the US dollar against the Japanese yen. The progress on resettlement has been
satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial delay was caused
by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions
at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment
(financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been placed. Construction of the resettle-
ment project is progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally
in line with appraisal estimates.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million Loan
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was an
initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents but
procurement is now under way and should present no further problems. Field
construction crews have been organizea ana nave oeen worKing on pole setting
and conductor stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available
in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The engineering work is proceeding on schedule. The follow-up
project loan is at the appraisal stage.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; EffecLive Dace;  DecemDer 2, i       uu4; .iosing Hate:
June 30, 1979
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has not been satisfactory, but MWWA is taking corrective measures.
Because of the initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to
be completed in late 1979, about 20-21 months behind the original schedule.
Extension of the June 30, 1979 Closing Date by about 9-12 months will be
required for full disbursement of the loan. Due to inadequate tariffs, which
were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be
poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were reviewed recently Dy cne Gaoinec wnicn nas approved in
principle a substantial increase in water tariffs, beginning July 1, 1979
(when some water benefits from the project are expected to materialize). MWWA
has also received approval to increase tariffs every two years following the
initial increase so as to enable MWWA to achieve its covenanted rate of return
of 8%.
Loan No. 1556-TH Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978- Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implementation.
Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal estimates. Initial
i-teragency problems in improv'ia  waLei supply a.ud ;,. Lransfer of project land
at King Petch are being resolved. In order to minimize resistance to benefi-
ciary charges, cost recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical
works are completed - starting in early 1980.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The Loan has not yet been declared effective. However, implementa-
tion of the project is generally ahead of schedule. Signal equipment will be
installed this spring, some two years earlier than had been expected, as a
result of the consulting and procurement work done under contracts for which
the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492   The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date:
March 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
of on-site infrastructure is proceeding on schedule and land sales are well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date:  September 4, 1974; Original Closing Date:  September 30,,
1978; Current Closing Date:  September 30, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date:  March 14, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital structure
and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share capital
increases. Satisfactory progress has been made on the institution-building
aspects of project.
Credit No. 767  Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most of
the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Family Planning and Health Provinces. With regard to the civil works, furn-
iture and equipment, vehicle and special equipment components of the project,
satisfactory progress has been made in completing design work, preparing
vehicle and equipment lists/specifications and in selecting and acquiring
sites. However, due to delays in staffing PAFU, the high turnover of staff in
the Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau
approval for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities
were held up initially and major elements of the project are about six months
behind schedule. The principal factors contributing to the problems faced by
the project have been weak project management and insufficient attention to
project coordination and to the removal of impediments to speedy implementation.
The Ministry of Public Health is aware of this situation and is taking appro-
priate action to ensure that the Project Director and his Deputy are more
directly involved in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page I
THAILAND
BANG PAKONG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  The Project was prepared over a period of about 2-1/2 years (early
1976 to September/October 1978).
(b)  The project was prepared by EGAT and its consultants, Black and
Veatch International.
(c)  The project was first proposed to the Bank in early 1976; the
first Bank mission to consider the project visited Thailand in
October 1977.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:       August 1978
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:           March 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        October 1979
Section II:  Special Implementation Action:  None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed to:
(i)  not later than January 1, 1980, undertake a study of the
future generation and transmission projects including
an in-depth review of the load forecast (paragraph 32);
(ii)  as a conditon of effectiveness, take all measures, including
adjustment of tariffs, necessary to improve EGAT's financial
position and the sector to earn a rate of return of not less
than 7% in FY80 and 81 and of not less than 8% as of FY82 and
in each fiscal year thereafter (paragraph 35);
(iii) maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more than 60:40.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) The Government has agreed to:
(i) not later than December 31, 1979, submit to the Bank for its
review and comment a proposal for a study aimed at improving
coordination in the electricity sector (paragraph 32); and
(ii) take all measures, including adjustment of tariffs, necessary
to enable the electricity sector as a whole to earn a rate of
return of not less than 7% in FY80 and FY81 and of not less
than 8% as of FY82 and in each fiscal year thereafter (para-
graph 35).
(c) An additional condition of effectiveness will be an increase in
sector tariffs sufficient for EGAT and the sector as a whole to
earn a rate of return of at least 7% in FY80 (paragraph 35).






B U R M A 
CcplOO 140DDAMW'                                    A-. |   \o        LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                                               IAILAN
16Pooc ,W                                                                         REPUBLIC
f  Mae Hooggon        ~~~Ch-nnn,2M
Di-sI 7 MWO/                                    '      1
.           M    O   Th_rn       Nan                                    NAM  NGUM DAM                                        6       .F
i    N   n                                  'Jo   MWHMSLDM t)/i/Dt                GsTlm  5M            ona 30M                                     Itt,Noho 
Chiangoal 7          (unit/% APwad3                                          UtI k--AtM C   135 MW                                   a
x  2a1SMWQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.nl30M
Ph-\ <e J   \           DA        NnKh i Ph= 'DA                                                         IA
HUMtRGi DAM                                                      Ga;i  Tu,hire 15MW=                     No40onphMWotn                         /A D-NGAPORE
l)   C' nSA0MW XL>PhaU h                                                                         Kn/n       haka.
l   !>-  X    M=n=ron            9                       <              brmm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  1.k  5'N.h. ...     8
420  W                                                                                    P N \khoho  SAM fUND DAM  Tho h5o-
UBOLRATASA DAM                  Cop  W 
a son  Karophoang                                          --5M--    ooo 
vUtSov=.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hnke'                                                     Muidohann 0411HILN
DA        CHum Po, _  c                                R N
.   R=+ch=burl fr SsmtSgvi:Cop  0MWbr                     j.y    Ih.atm  CIonsirurhon   Prec              aPo.c
AndamanEC=pl9GMWt 44 PO*ER                      PLANTi Ch=nthoburn  0M /WiJ T4s  Disorhng Lnres
REGION                            I                                                       AREGIO
M       Nnorons    khon  -               1i)    h.,' '>n                                                               Pltoa
R                                                          '1 YA  REGION
is'                                                                                 -- iS MWO                Eurnran             Sisakas
J~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Ta',~t6                               SaLoo Rarohairo 2      Sorn                   Ca 20 MW             .
SRINAGARfND DAM               A6   tJStOhOti
malrrt. Cap, 720= MW                                   ...  
Initia 36DM                    Ayt 5hoo         Phh                                                                                                       20
PROJECT  ' ~     K.Ph.,' u
R=n=ng ^ /  LNGS  N    |||THAILAND
/' 4niD5MW   Nana~bt-                                                             |__|______
/SUATTAN              ;Prhi,br                  /ELECTRICITY  GENERATING   AUTHORITY   OF  THAILAND
REG/                       ~ i5li(    --h--ANG PAKONG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Tokuo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Chc                               BAN   PAKONGng                 ll    Tem=                                                            N
R.th.b.,       Th., .1 P..., 1-1    C,                       ~~~~~Under   Futute
Eanting   Constnuctijn   Projeci    Project
Andlamon                    KANG KRACHAN GAM           PLetho-g                                                     --230 KV  Transm,issioa Lines
Phuk t     ~~~Cai  M -O                      ULPW    tan  Lanniing PIANO  ah   i                                                        115KV  Trnmiso  Lie
D-P 19) 13-            POERr69 KV Trnsmission Lines
-           -         -      ~~~~~~~230 KV Substations
seo                                              ~~~~~~~~~Sat aip                                                                      115 KV  Substations
P-r-                                          t                                                      69 KV  Substations
0                     0         0)      Thermal Power Plants
P,.,h..p Kh,,, Kh.n                                        E3              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Hydro Power Planst
Prachuap REin, IGnan                                  N                                                Nuclear Power Plant
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMM Regional Boundaries
/                                                            - .-- -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
bo      55     ish              200              300
Gulf  of  Thalanel                                                  I . 1               KILOMETERS
1                                                                            ~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50  00o  200
or~~~~~~~o                                                                                                                                 MiLESr sws pndrst         11l
I                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
anong      i&                                  ^         ALANG SUAN  I A
4045MW                                              I                            I
N                            Ipht0                              tago
AT0 iHAtNI                                                                                        N.r             iT
CWQ 30         Phoophin
Sooth
Canton                                                                                    ThNkharmhat,t    -5   197M
Thog S-no,
0         Krh,               REGION   3"D-t'. lh 
Phuket          Ca  60M                                                                            Cantra
D-.1 10                   ni65W 4Wa ChntB
Trgas Tur,na                                                          anthba
Ptz; oonaian of h eden of M.r..  *J                                                                                                                                   gk
Oaotida,taa aoosno an Sb nap  ,' ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2-200&  ~3o/
jonoat -0 ita iepaiotatoaf                                                                                                                                         G- %rKbi-at3ns1      nrW
aThapan ono itoo-ndann                            iC ' FCi  n'Ta/o
To Iol  ~          MALAY S I A                                                                     fhd-



