Document of               FILE
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2757-Ho
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 28, 1980
This docoment hss a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
L 2.00           =    US$1.00
L 1.00          =    US$0.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BANAFOM     -   Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
BCH         -   Banco Central de Honduras (Central Bank of Honduras)
CABEI       -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
COHBANA     -   Corporacion Hondurena del Banano (Honduran Banana
Corporation)
COHDEFOR    -   Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Honduran Forestry Development Corporation)
CONADI      -   Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(National Investment Corporation)
CPA         -   Comision de Politica Agropecuaria (Agricultural
Policy Commission)
FAO/CP      -   World Bank/Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperative Program
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD        -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
INA         -   Instituto Nacional Agrario (National Agrarian Institute)
MRN         -   Ministerio de Recursos Naturales (Ministry of Natural
Resources)
OAS         -   Organization of American States
OECD        -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PI          -   Participating Intermediaty
PU          -   Project Unit of BCH
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Honduras
Beneficiary:    Central Bank of Honduras (BCH)
Amount:          Loan - US$ 20.0 million equivalent
Credit - US$ 5.0 million equivalent
Terms:           loan - 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 8.25 percent
per annum
Credit - Standard IDA terms
Relending
Terms:         The Government would make funds available to BCH to relend,
for 30 years, with 10 years grace, at a 0.75 percent service
charge per annum, to the Honduran Forestry Development
Corporation (COHDEFOR) for forestry development and to the
Honduran Banana Corporation (COHBANA) for studies of its
organization and the use of waste fruits for animal feed.
The Government would also pass funds through BCH on a
grant basis to the Ministry of Natural Resources for
studies of groundwater resources. The foreign exchange
risk on these components would be carried by the Government.
The remainder of the proceeds of the Bank loan and IDA
credit would be relent by the Government to BCH for the line
of credit, flood control works, training and the Project
Unit (PU). The loan would be relent on the same terms as
the Bank loan, and the IDA credit for 20 years, with
10 years grace, at 2 percent interest per annum. The
foreign exchange risk would be carried by BCH. For the
line of credit, BCH would relend funds through participating
intermediaries at an interest rate of 10 percent. These
intermediaries would, in turn, on-lend the funds to investors
at 14 percent interest. Subloans would be made for terms of
2 to 12 years, including not more than 5 years grace.
Project
Description:   The objective of the project is to support national programs
of agricultural development and agrarian reform, thereby
expanding domestic food production and consumption, increas-
ing exports and import substitution, generating employment,
improving incomes and strengthening institutions for agri-
cultural planning and development and for natural resource
TVm  duscnt hkme ragtricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
d ther official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



conservation. The project comprises (1) a line of credit
for investments in crops, livestock, agricultural machinery
and municipal abattoirs, (2) flood control and drainage
works for banana and plantain development, (3) a pilot
reforestation program, (4) studies of groundwater resources,
COHBANA's organization, and use of waste bananas and plantains
for animal feed, and (5) incremental PU expenditures and
related training and technical assistance. Almost 90 percent
of the expected 12,800 persons who would benefit directly from
the project have present incomes which fall beneath the rural
poverty line; the project would help raise their annual
incomes substantially. There is some risk that changes in
lending terms since the First Agricultural Credit Project -- a
higher final rate to subborrowers and a smaller spread for
intermediaries -- may cause initial reluctance to borrow.
However, these new 1:erms reflect changes in national economic
conditions and will be carefully monitored to assure their
appropriateness. It will also be important to the success of
the project that the ongoing restructuring of the National
Development Bank, the principal lender to small-scale farmers,
be closely supervised, and that the Agrarian Reform Institute
successfully implement a program to regularize the land tenure
arrangements for the squatters currently residing in the areas
to be developed under the banana and plantain component.
Estimated Cost:
US$ Millions Equivalent
Local    Foreign   Total
Agricultural Development
Small-Scale farmers
Banana/Plantain 1/               3.4       3.6        7.0
Other                            3.9       3.3        7.2
Other investors                        7.0      6.3       13.3
Forestry Development                         1.3       0.5        1.8
Studies and Training                         0.6       2.5        3.1
Project Unit                                 0.5       0.6        1.1
Baseline Total                       16.7      16.8       33.5
Price Contingencies                          2.5       2.5        5.0
Total Project Cost                    19.2     19.3       38.5
1/   Including flood control and drainage works totalling US$2.2 million, to
be financed initially by CORBANA and subsequently recovered from the
ultimate beneficiaries.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
US$ Millions Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank Loan and IDA Credit             5.7     19.3      25.0
Central Bank                         3.1        -       3.1
Government                           1.2        -        1.2
Public Corporations                  2.0        -       2.0
Financial Intermediaries             3.9        -       3.9
Subborrowers                         3.3        -       3.3 1/
19.2    19.3      38.5
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank/IDA FY      1981     1982      1983     1984     1985
Annual           1.8        6.8      7.9     5.5       3.0
Cumulative       1.8       8.6      16.5    22.0      25.0
Rate of Return:      55 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2691, dated March 21, 1980
1/  Excluding about US$ 1.5 million of family labor and contributions in
kind.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$20.0 million and a proposed development credit equiva-
lent to US$5.0 million to the Republic of Honduras for the Second Agricultural
Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The development credit would
be on standard IDA terms. US$1.8 million for forestry development and for
organization and banana/plantain waste use studies would be relent to the
Honduran Forestry Development Corporation and the Honduran Banana Corporation,
respectively, for 30 years, with 10 years grace, at a 0.75 percent service
charge per annum. US$1.5 million for groundwater resources studies would be
passed on to the Ministry of Natural Resources on a grant basis. The remainder
of the proceeds of the loan and credit would be relent to the Central Bank
of Honduras, of which about US$20.5 million would be on-lent to COHBANA
for flood control works and through participating intermediaries to final
beneficiaries for terms of up to 12 years, including up to 5 years grace,
at an annual interest rate of 14 percent. The grant element provided to
Honduras in the Bank Group package, using a 10 percent discount rate, would
be 25 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Devel.opment and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 24, 1978. Bank missions visited Honduras during January and
November 1979 to review recent economic performance. The main findings of
these missions are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only one
percent a year. Honduras' per capita GNP in 1978, US$480, is one of the
lowest in the Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from a
variety of indicators. Malnutrition is severe: about three quarters of
pre-school children are believed to suffer from protein and caloric defi-
ciencies, and infant mortality is estimated at 103 per thousand live births.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Report for the El Cajon Power Project (P-2710-HO)
dated February 20, 1980.



-2-
It is estimated that rcughly 54 percent of the population has no access to
safe piped water and about 76 percent lives without any form of sanitary
waste disposal. Furthermore, these are country averages which conceal
substantial regional disparities as living conditions in the rural areas,
which account for two thirds of the population, are much worse than in
the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance during 1950-75
was the continued dependence of t'he economy on the production and export of
a few agricultural commodities, especially bananas and coffee, whose prices
depend on a fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly
influenced by weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated
when extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in
1974 reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one half the
level of 1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3
percent. A serious lack of basic infrastructure, uneven land distribution,
and deficient credit, technical services, and development programs kept non-
banana agricultural growth far below its potential. Furthermore, the country's
sizeable forest resources were subject to wasteful exploitation practices,
widespread burning, and uncertain ownership. In addition, the mountainous
topography of the country has made the expansion of the road network slow and
costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, including the establish-
ment of a basic transportation network connecting the main population centers
and e considerable expansion of electric power service.
Government Development Efforts
5.        Since 1972, development efforts have accelerated; several measures
have laid the basis for the countr-y's improved longer-term economic prospects.
A land reform program, begun in 1972, and strengthened and expanded through
comprehensive legislation in 1975, aims at greatly improving land utilization
as well as increasing the income and employment of the poorer peasants through
the transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the nationaliza-
tion of timber rights in 1974. A new forestry law established guidelines for
private sector forestry participation and created the state-owned Honduran
Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). In the same year, the Government
established the National Investment Corporation (CONADI), to promote and
finance industrial projects. Furthermore, improvements in Government planning
and executing capacity resulted irn a substantial increase in public fixed
investment from an average 4.9 percent of GDP in 1968-72 to 6.6 percent in
1974, and 10.1 percent in 1978. I'he Government has also made an effort to
increase investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthen public
finances through tax reforms and better tax administration. A 1975 tax reform
made the tax on coffee exports ad valorem, with marginal rates ranging from 10
percent to 20 percent depending on coffee prices; substituted a 3 percent
value added tax for the sales tax; and raised the tax rates on beer, cigarettes
and liquor. Partly as a result, current Central Government receipts increased
from 13.2 percent of GDP in 1970 to 15.3 percent in 1978.



-3-
Recent Developments
6.        During 1974-75, the Honduran economy was adversely affected by one
of the worst hurricanes in its history, by the oil price rise of 1974,
and later on by the OECD recession. GDP remained almost stagnant, severe
balance of payments difficulties arose, and the country's savings capacity
was seriously reduced. Honduras, however, recovered during 1976-78. A
much higher level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production, the extraordinary increase of coffee prices (which doubled in
1976 and again in 1977), and dynamic private fixed investment (7.4 percent
real increase yearly) were the major factors responsible. Real GDP grew
at about 7.4 percent a year, or almost double the long-term growth rate
recorded during 1950-75. The rate of inflation reached 6.4 percent a year,
mostly fueled by imported inflation and domestic difficulties with basic
grain crops.
7.        Although merchandise exports grew 27 percent a year in dollar
terms during 1976-78 as a result of higher coffee prices and the partial
recovery of banana production, imports grew at a 20 percent rate and the
balance of payments continued to show large current account deficits.
Expansionary policies which led to the more rapid economic and investment
growth had an immediate effect on imports into the small economy. Net
foreign exchange reserves, however, increased as a result of greater
disbursements of foreign loans, and by the end of 1978 were US$135 million,
equivalent to about two months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        Central Government finances during 1976-78 reflected the economic
performance. Current revenues increased rapidly (21 percent yearly) but
current expenditures grew almost equally fast and current savings showed only
a modest improvement. As a result, the large increment in capital expendi-
tures was largely financed by foreign credits.  The increase in Central
Government current revenues between 1975 and 1978 resulted from higher income
and property tax collections; almost a tripling of export and import tax
revenues (including an increase of coffee taxes from US$4 million in 1975 to
US$32 million in 1978); and a rapid increase in receipts from domestic taxes.
Current expenditures for wages, goods and services, and transfers showed large
percentage increases. Higher wage expenditures resulted from expanded employ-
ment (7 percent annually) and higher nominal wages (about 9 percent annually).
About 57 percent of the new posts created were teaching positions. The
Government expanded significantly operating expenditures for education, health,
and defense. Budgeted expenditures for education increased by 81 percent from
1975 to 1978; health expenditures doubled; and defense expenditures increased
by 80 percent.
9.        In 1979, the Honduran economy continued its much improved growth
performance. Real GDP growth is estimated at about 6.5 percent owing mainly to
larger export volumes than in 1978 and increased public expenditures. GDY,
however, increased little because the terms of trade deteriorated by about
13 percent. In spite of larger export volumes of coffee (15 percent) and
bananas (26 percent), lower coffee prices slowed export earnings growth and,
coupled with rapidly rising import prices, resulted in a sharp decline in the
terms of trade. The annual average rate of inflation accelerated to about



_4_
8.8 percent, mostly because of imported inflation and higher domestic prices
for housing and food products, partly related to the influx of Nicaraguan
refugees. Towards the end of the year, however, inflation accelerated to an
annual rate of 19 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments increased from US$154 million in 1978 to about US$183 million in
1979 as exports of goods grew 20 percent and imports (CIF) 18 percent,
fueled by higher import prices and the expansion of economic activity.
While Central Government current revenues grew rapidly, they were neverthe-
less outpaced by current expenditures; as a result, current savings declined
from 1.1 percent of GDP in 1978 to 0.5 percent of GDP in 1979. Public fixed
investment is estimated at about 9.9 percent of GDP, a slight decrease with
respect to 1978.
Future Prospects and Development Programs
10.       Real GDP growth, while expected to remain well above historic levels,
is likely to be less than in 1977-79, and to average about 5.6 percent a year
during 1980-83. The main reason for the deceleration is the expected lower
export growth. Exports (in constant: prices) may increase by about 7.0 percent
a year, compared to 17.2 percent in 1978-79, since banana production has
already recovered significantly and coffee production is completing a cyclical
peak in the 1979/80 harvest. Further output expansion will be slower than in
the recent past. Export growth would depend mainly on lumber exports (made
possible by the current expansion of sawmill capacity) together with increased
beef and sugar production, expansion of fruit and vegetable production for
export, and promotion of tourism. However, the prospects for export expansion
within Central America have been aff'ected by the political unrest in the
region.  A   slower growth of the quantum of total exports coupled with higher
levels of imports, partly fueled by rising public investment, will likely
result in continued moderately high deficits in the current account of the
balance of payments during 1980-83. Private investment is expected to show
less dynamism, as CONADI's support f'or large private projects may have peaked
since most of its existing projects are being completed and few significant
new projects have been identified. Within certain parameters dictated by the
public sector's revenue and indebtedness capability, public expenditures, both
current and capital, may be a positive factor for GDP growth. Real current
expenditures are expected to increase at rates slightly above those of GDP,
although some restraint is needed to insure adequate public savings. Real
public investment is expected to average about 10-11 percent of GDP during
1980-83.
11.       The public investment program for 1980-83 calls for large invest-
ments to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's develop-
ment process. Full implementation of this program is not likely because of
limitations in administrative capacity to prepare and implement projects,
particularly in the rural and social sectors. Nevertheless, the country's
overall administrative capacity has shown a marked improvement in the past
few years, and it should be feasible to go forward with the major components
of the program, which include large investments for infrastructure, partic-
ularly for power and transport; for export diversification, mainly through
forestry development; for agricultural development to advance the agrarian
reform program and increase rural productivity; and for health, particularly
potable water.



12.       Power investments will be the largest, averaging about 40 percent
of public fixed investment, mostly because of the large, lumpy investment
required for the El Cajon hydroelectric project. This high share is justi-
fied in view of the need to provide adequate power supply to industry and
other expanding sectors of an economy expected to grow at a high-r long term
rate than in the past. It should be noted that per capita generation of
electricity in Honduras is currently very low (the second lowest in Central
America). Moreover, development of the country's hydroelectric resources
could make an important contribution to reducing the economy's dependence on
imported oil. Expenditures on imported oil and lubricants were US$76.3 million
(10.7 percent of the merchandise import bill) in 1978 and increased dramatically
to US$113 million (13.4 percent of merchandise imports) in 1979 compared to
only US$14.7 million (6.6 percent of merchandise imports) in 1970. During
1970-79, Honduras' fuel needs for electricity generation grew from about US$1
million to about US$5.8 million. Rising prices and the expanded domestic demand
would bring about a much larger bill for imported oil in the future. If
thermal plants rather than El Cajon were chosen, oil imports for power genera-
tion alone would probably be over US$35 million by 1986 and would grow rapidly
thereafter.
13.       Transport investments will also be large, and include the roads for
the Olancho sawmills, further rural roads, the expansion of the trunk highway
system, and a new port for wood product exports. Forestry investments planned
by COHDEFOR and the Industrial Forestry Corporation of Olancho (CORFINO)
include five relatively large sawmills. Agricultural investments will be
focused on rural development projects for three major valleys: Aguan, Guayape,
and Comayagua. Health investments will be concentrated on water supply and
medical facilities for Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and provincial towns.
These fixed investments will be supplemented by growing credit programs for
agriculture and industry.
14.       The Government has declared its intention to mobilize additional
domestic resources needed to support prudently its ambitious development program.
For this purpose, it has already implemented a tax package which will increase
revenues of the Central Government by about 1.6 percent of GDP in 1980. Other
measures are expected to include a reduction of annual current expenditure
growth from 22 percent in 1976-78 to 17 percent in 1979 and 14.5 percent
thereafter; higher tariffs for public enterprises, particularly electricity
and port tariffs; and, if necessary, further reforms of the tax system. In
addition, the Government has established ceilings for total public fixed
investment (about 11 percent of GDP). To avoid excessive pressures on the
balance of payments and the domestic price level, the Government is also
expected to increase credit only slightly faster than nominal GDP. Interest
rates were raised to keep them in line with external market conditions and to
stimulate savings deposits. Based on its development program, the Government
earlier this year negotiated with the IMF a loan package totalling about
US$75 million (of which US$57 million is from the Extended Fund Facility).
The three-year EFF arrangement provides Fund resources in support of sound
overall economic and financial policies during the implementation of the
public investment program; the latter should strengthen substantially the
balance of payments in the mid-1980s by reducing significantly the fuel import
requirement of the economy and by generating increased exports, particularly



-6-
lumber and wood products. However, given the present and foreseeable poverty
of the country, even with the above measures, Honduras needs external assistance
in excess of the foreign exchange component of development projects suitable
for international finance to enable the Government to implement its public
investment program. The large size of this program, the political uncertainty
now prevailing in the Central American region, and past volatility in Honduras'
export receipts have led the authorities to agree with the Bank on annual
reviews of the investment program and its financing prospects. We plan to
continue monitoring closely Honduras' progress.
External Financing
15.       As the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports
related to the public investment program, the current account deficit is
expected to increase to about US$329 million by 1983 (about 9.7 percent of
GDP) and, as a result, large capital inflows will be required. The bulk of
the external financing requirements is expected to be met through public
borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated gross capital inflow of
US$1.1 billion during 1980-83, of which over US$360 million will be disbursed
from commitments made through the end of 1979.
16.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to US$591.1 million at the end of 1978, US$917.9 million if undisbursed commit-
ments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on
concessionary terms. The debt service ratio at the end of 1978 was 8.6 per-
cent. It is important that the coluntry continue to borrow on reasonably soft
average terms in view of the country's poverty, the fact that it will continue
to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile price prospects, and
because, historically, natural disasters have sharply reduced the volume of
exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful in obtaining about
two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment program on terms
similar to those offered by the international lending agencies, the debt
service ratio is likely to rise to about 13 percent in 1986 and 15 percent
in 1992. Continued maintenance of Honduras' creditworthiness will depend
on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements its major public
investment projects; on careful, continued demand management, including
cautious use of non-concessionary borrowing; and on export promotion policies.
17.       The Bank Group holds 25.3 percent of the disbursed public debt
outstanding and repayable in foreign currency; excluding IDA, the Bank's share
is about 18 percent. About half of the IDB's total loans disbursed and
outstanding are repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the
disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 10.5 percent.
CABEI accounts for 15.0 percent of the total, the US Government for 14.2
percent, Venezuela for 13.2 percent, privately held debt for about 18.9
percent and other debt for 2.9 percent.
18.       During 1970-79, the principal external lending agencies active in
Honduras have committed some US$1,005 million at FY79 prices, of which the IDB
provided 38.3 percent, the Bank Group 30.4 percent, CABEI 22.3 percent and
USAID, 9.0 percent. IDB has concentrated on agriculture, manufacturing, water
and sewerage, transport, power, education and housing; CABEI on transport,



-7-
power and manufacturing, and USAID on agriculture and education (see Annex I,
page 6). It is expected that USAID and CABEI will continue lending primarily
in the same sectors in the future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture,
forestry, transport, industry and power.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
19.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received 21 Bank loans totalling US$357.7 million and 11 IDA
credits totalling US$80.1 million, both net of cancellations. The most recent
operation, an $105.0 million loan and $20 million credit for the El Cajon
hydroelectric project, was approved on March 11, 1980.  As of January 31, 1980
a total of US$100.5 million remained to be disbursed on 13 operations for
electricity, roads, livestock, education, agricultural credit, ports, regional
development, industrial credit and tourism. Execution of projects financed by
the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January
31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, this diversification has continued through operations for a Second
Livestock Project; a First Education Project, which included as major compo-
nents primary and secondary teacher training schools, and support for voca-
tional training centers and the national agricultural secondary school; a
First Agricultural Credit Project to finance livestock and crop development
with emphasis on assisting agrarian reform settlements through investment
credits and a substantial technical assistance program; a Second Education
Project to help finance rural primary schools and agricultural vocational
education; a Regional Development Project to assist small farmers and agrarian
reform settlements in the Guayape Valley; an Industrial Credit Project to
provide funds primarily to small and medium manufacturing firms and firms
proposing priority projects in the wood industry; and a Tourism Development
Project to contribute to the diversification of the sources of Honduras'
foreign exchange earnings.
21.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform efforts.
We would also help finance activities to strengthen the balance of payments
and diversify exports, while continuing to lend for physical infrastructure
where there are still deficiencies to be overcome. In addition to the proposed
Second Agricultural Credit Project, rural development projects are now being
identified. We also expect to extend further assistance to the expansion
of educational opportunities particularly for the rural population. In trans-
port, we plan to place emphasis on maintenance of existing roads and on
assisting the construction of a network of feeder roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program. In the energy field, we hope to help attract
more private investment in offshore petroleum exploration through a small
technical assistance loan.



-8-
22.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain at about one quarter during the
1980s. The IBRD share of public external debt service has dropped substan-
tially since the early 1970s because of increasing lending by other external
agencies and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The IBRD share is now
about 20 percent and is projected to remain at this level through the 1980s.
23.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity invest-
ment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000 respectively, in a tannery, Empresa de
Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity investment
of US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1969 and 1970 equity investments
totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America, S.A., which was established to develop an industrial project
based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve. Although this company is no
longer involved in this project, IFC has assisted the Government of Honduras
in creating an organizational structure and selecting a technical partner for
the project. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0 million and an equity
investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V., a locally
owned textile company, to help finance an expansion and diversification
project.  IFC continues working wilh CONADI and local private investors
in developing other investment opportunities in the country.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Natural Resources and Production Potential
24.       Honduras has a land area of 11.2 million ha.  Total cultivated
land, including pastures, amounts to about 1.8 million ha, a further million
ha is classified as grassland and cultivable land, and about 7.0 million ha
is forest. Apart from in the valleys, soils are generally shallow and have
serious deficiencies of nitrogen and phosphorus.
25.       Although the natural resource endowment of Honduras is limited and
not easy to exploit, the technical possibilities for raising agricultural
output are substantial. Available technology has not been widely disseminated,
and cropping practices are often traditional with little use of modern inputs,
especially among subsistence farmers who also lack adequate market incentives
and facilities. Export-oriented or industrial crops, such as bananas, tobacco,
sugarcane, cotton and coffee, employ comparatively high-technology production
systems and have organizations that regulate and support both production and
marketing.
26.       The availability of adequate, reliable water resources is also
important to increased agricultural production. Although irrigation is often
used for crops such as bananas, sugarcane, and to a lesser degree, tobacco,
cotton and vegetables, its utilization is still far below its potential.
Studies for possible future irrigation projects are being undertaken in a
number of valleys, some with Bank Group financing -- for example, in the
Choluteca, Guayape and Aguan Valleys. Before specific irrigation project



- 9 -
implementation can be undertaken effectively, there is a need for better
coordination of Government agencies, and a comprehensive water law to provide
a legal framework for irrigation development.
Rural Population, Income and Employment
27.       About 68 percent of the population, or over 2.2 million, lives in
rural areas, and about 63 percent of the total labor force is involved in
agriculture. Almost 80 percent of the agricultural labor force is engaged
in growing food crops for subsistence. A survey in 1967 showed that the
poorest 40 percent of the population was almost entirely rural, that it
earned incomes about one-fifth of the national average, and that it had
a 7 percent share of total income. Employment in agriculture is highly
seasonal, under-employment is pronounced, and opportunities for off-farm
employment are restricted.
The Role of Agriculture in the National Economy
28.       Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Honduras.
It contributes about one-third of GDP and generates about 81 percent of export
earnings. Unfavorable weather conditions, especially Hurricane Fifi in 1974,
and Honduras' withdrawal from the Central American Common Market adversely
affected output during the first half of the 1970s. However, better weather
as well as expansion of the area under cultivation allowed output to increase
during 1976 and 1977 at an annual rate of 5.3 percent. During 1973-77, crops
accounted for 67 percent of value added in the agricultural sector; livestock,
including poultry, 19 percent; and forestry, 13 percent.
29.       The trade balance in agriculture is favorable and increased from
an average US$200 million in 1973-77 to an estimated US$411 million in 1978.
Until the early 1970s, the sector was able to supply the food needs of the
country, and some food staples like maize, beans and rice were even exported.
This has recently changed, as the growth in production of traditional food
crops slowed, and food imports (usually maize, rice, vegetable oils and milk)
accounted for about 9 percent of total import value between 1973-77.
30.       Bananas and Plantains - Honduras is the fourth largest banana
exporter in the world, contributing 10 percent to the international trade
in this product. Before Hurricane Fifi, however, it had up to 16 percent
of the world market, and banana exports often contributed over 50 percent
of Honduras' total export earnings. The storm damage cut this severely--the
21,530 ha under banana cultivation were reduced to 14,570 ha. Honduras
has made serious attempts to restore its productive capacity, and in 1978,
17,160 ha were under cultivation by the Tela Railroad Co. (United Brands),
Standard Fruit Co., associated farmers and the Honduran Banana Corporation
(COHBANA).  Preliminary data for 1979 indicate that impressive gains continue
to be made in banana production, although there are still substantial areas
not in full production. Export values have increased over the last few years
from US$107 million in 1976, to US$141 million in 1978 and to US$200 million
in 1979. Although plantains were not destroyed by Hurricane Fifi to the same



- 10 -
extent as bananas, they have been badly affected by the Black Sigatoka disease
which appeared after the hurricane. The Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN),
with financial support from CABEI, has recently initiated a disease control
program for all the major plantain areas of northern Honduras. -
31.       Forestry.  Lumber and wood products have accounted for about 12
percent of Honduras' total export value during 1973-77. Although the volume
of these exports has remained fairly constant in more recent years, their
proportion has decreased to 6.1 percent of total exports in 1978-79 as banana
production recovered after Hurricane Fifi. Although the potential for a
vastly improved forest industry exists, it faces many constraints, including
the rapid depletion of the resource itself due to widespread burning of
forests under the system of shifting agriculture and illegal cutting for fuel.
According to a recent forest inventory, there was a 40 percent reduction of
the national forest area in the 12-year period up to 1978. Furthermore,
excessive clearing of forests on stesep land and marginal soils is leading to
increasingly serious soil erosion of the catchment areas of Honduras' major
river systems. Since COHDEFOR's creation, there has been some improvement,
but the situation remains serious.
Land Use and Distribution
32.       An important means of raising agricultural output would be through
shifting land from lower to higher value farm enterprises, such as from
grassland to sugarcane and rice. It is estimated that only 28 percent of
land suitable for annual crops is now used for this purpose; the comparable
figure for perennial crops is 18 percent.
33.       At the time of the 1974 Agricultural Census, there were some
195,000 farms, of which 78 percent wzere of 10 ha or less and occupied only
17 percent of the agriculturally used land. The skewed distribution of
land-holdings and the extreme poverty of the rural population have given rise
over the last decade to agrarian unrest and a series of invasions of privately-
owned land, creating concern among farmers and disrupting the production
process. The Government has given land reform considerable attention since
the early 1970s, and through a temporary decree in 1972 and a comprehensive
law in 1975 has undertaken to redistribute land through the National Agrarian
Institute (INA). During 1977/78, the tense situation eased somewhat as compre-
hensive regulations were passed defining INA's authority more clearly. By the
end of 1978, INA had distributed 203,833 ha to a total of 35,586 families
organized into 1,240 groups. The Government is aware of the difficulties
involved in small-scale farmer development and recognizes that in order to
achieve greater success, there is a need for better coordination among the
various public institutions that operate in the agricultural sector.
Institutional Framework
34.       The principal agricultural planning body is the newly-created Agri-
cultural Policy Commission (CPA), which consists of the Ministers of Natural
Resources, Finance and Economy and the Directors of INA and the Council for
Economic Planning. Duplication of effort by different agencies, excessive
centralization and shortage of trained professionals are constraints in this
sector. However, better techniques of administration are being considered in
many Government agencies, and USAID has recently provided financing to improve
sector organization.



- 11 -
35.       MRN, the National Development Bank (BANAFOM) and INA have primary
responsibility for agriculture and rural development. MRN handles animal
health, plant quarantine, research, extension, some input services and
project preparation. It has been reorganized but is still weak in extension
and research. Under the First Agricultural Credit Project, MRN is receiving
the assistance of foreign specialists in these areas as well as seed produc-
tion. BANAFOM ts discussed in paragraph 40 below. INA, whose main responsi-
bility is implementation of the agrarian reform program, acquires land and
trains and provides guidance to settlers in operating their group farms until
they achieve full cooperative status and gain title to the land. The First
Agricultural Credit Project also includes equipment and technical assistance
for INA.
36.       COHBANA, an autonomous state institution, was created in 1975
to promote the development of bananas in Honduras and obtain an increasing
national participation in their production, marketing and transport. The
production expansion program is being developed jointly with INA to combine
it with agrarian reform settlements. To date it has been successful in
rehabilitating three plantation settlements, including Isletas which is
being financed under IDA Credits 434-HO and 628-HO. COHBANA now has some
2,600 ha under banana production.
37.       COHDEFOR, a state-owned institution, was created in 1974.  COHDEFOR's
mandate is to generate funds for the nation through sound economic forest
development, including the industrialization, export and domestic wholesaling
of forest products, as well as replacement of the resource. COHDEFOR is also
responsible for organizing a Social Forestry System to offer the rural poor
employment alternatives, for example, through promotion of cooperatives
engaged in resin refining.
Agricultural Credit
38.       The agricultural sector is financed by both institutional and
non-institutional sources, and, although no reliable information is available
about the latter, estimates suggest that nearly 80 percent of small-scale
farmers depend on private moneylenders and pay usurious rates of interest.
The lack of required collateral makes it difficult for small-scale farmers
to get institutional credit, and the Central Bank of Honduras (BCH) hopes to
resolve this by securing a change in the banking law with regard to loan
collateral and guarantees. Institutional credit is supplied mainly by the
banking system, which consists principally of BCH, 13 private commercial
banks, three public sector development institutions and six specialized credit
institutions. During 1976-78, the total volume of agricultural credit in
the country rose from US$116 million to US$152 million.
39.       BCH, as the monetary authority, determines credit policy, regulates
the flow of credit to the economy and acts as the regulatory body for the
banking system. Currently, except for housing and special guarantee funds for
small industry, BCH has set the maximum lending rate for all productive
purposes at 16 percent per annum.
40.       Nine commercial banks in Honduras have participated in previous
IDA-financed projects, attracted by the good financial returns, a guarantee
offered by BCH to cover losses that might be incurred in the event that INA



- 12 -
expropriated land from a defaulting subborrower, and the effective technical
assistance provided by the Project Unit (PU). BANAFOM, the state development
bank founded in 1950, provides the major portion of Honduras' institutional
finance for agriculture and has become increasingly involved in IDA-financed
projects. BANAFOM's loan portfolio consisted of 41,951 loans at the end of
1978. It has the largest participation in small-scale farmer credit both
within and outside the land reform sector. During 1978, there was an increase
of 16 percent in the number and 7 percent in the value of its loans to this
category of subborrower. Over the years, BANAFOM became involved in an
excessive number of functional, non-banking activities which contributed
to operational losses and made it difficult for its management to carry out
an effective banking operation. Also, a cumbersome lending process and poor
loan collection performance led to considerable delinquency in repayments.
Thus, the Government had to make substantial contributions to keep BANAFOM in
operation. It has now decided to divest BANAFOM of its non-banking functions
and transform it into an agricultural development bank. Legislation for this
purpose is currently under consideration. Furthermore, consultants financed
by USAID began work in May 1979 to implement BANAFOM's reorganization and make
recommendations to improve its procedures and performance. The Bank Group has
maintained a continuing dialogue with BANAFOM and its consultants throughout
this process.
Public Policy for the Sector
41.       In its second Five-Year PLan (1979-83), the Government indicates
that its aims in the agricultural sector are: (a) promotion, support,
regulation and control, rather than active involvement in production;
(b) greater attention to the small-scale independent farmer and a thorough
analysis of the past results of supporting group settlements; and (c) inte-
gration of the different sector entities to avoid unnecessary duplication
of work. One of the main goals is to attain production levels of basic
food grains that would allow self-sufficiency and small surpluses for export.
Land titling, assistance to help farmers manage ongoing settlements, COHDEFOR's
Social Forestry Program, strengthening of the regional offices of all insti-
tutions and the provision of grain silos, other on-farm storage and market
structures will receive priority.
Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector
42.       To date, IDA has provided three credits to Honduras, totalling
US$23.2 million, for agricultural development. Two of these credits (179-HO
of March 1970 and 434-HO of October 1973) were for commercial livestock
development with the objective of diversifying and strengthening the balance
of payments by increasing beef exports. The first loan was evaluated in the
Operations Evaluation Audit dated February 21, 1978. It was concluded that,
while the project did help increase livestock production and beef exports,
it did so in part through more extensive production rather than primarily
through improved production techniques. Although the second project has not
yet been audited, it was noted in the above-mentioned audit that, since it
was basically a continuation of the first project, there may have been a
conflict with the agrarian reform which was beginning about the time the
second project was appraised and which aimed to transform extensive livestock
production operations to cropping when this was more suitable. The evidence



- 13 -
is still not available to determine whether livestock project activities
impeded the agrarian reform program to any significant extent; however, the
Bank's lending objectives for agriculture in Honduras have changed since
approval of these two projects.
43.       The third IDA credit (628-HO), US$14 million for the First Agricul-
tural Credit Project , was approved in May 1976. It has as one of its princi-
pal objectives the strengthening of the agrarian reform program. It provides
credit to agrarian reform settlements and commercial farmers for crop and
mixed crop/livestock development, as well as technical assistance, equipment
and training. Funds allocated for the credit program are fully committed,
but difficulties in recruiting suitable expatriate technical personnel (which
are now all hired) has resulted in a low rate of disbursement of funds for
technical assistance.
44.       The Guayape Regional Development Project which became operational
early in 1979 is financed by US$10.5 million provided under Loan 1576-HO.
It includes on-farm investments, small irrigation schemes, machinery pool
services, rural road improvements, extension services and agricultural
research facilities for some 1,200 small-scale farmers and 70 agrarian
reform settlements (1,500 families) in the Guayape Valley.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project was prepared during 1978/79 by the PU, COHBANA and
COHDEFOR, and was appraised in March/April 1979.  A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Second Agricultural Credit Project, Honduras" (Report No.
2691-HO, dated March 21, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
data are contained in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on
December 11-14, 1979. The Government delegation was led by the Minister of
Finance, and BCH was represented by its President.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The project would support national programs of agricultural and
forestry development and agrarian reform, principally by: (a) expanding food
crop and livestock production to provide more adequate nutrition for the
national population; (b) increasing agricultural export earnings and import
substitution; (c) increasing employment opportunities and improving family
incomes on farms and in agro-industries; and (d) strengthening selected
institutions for further planning and development of the sector and for the
conservation of natural resources. It would consist of the following compo-
nents:
(a) a line of credit to finance crop and livestock investment
plans, abattoirs and agricultural machinery;
(b) flood control and drainage works for banana and plantain
development;
(c) a pilot forestry program in western Honduras;



- 14 -
(d) studies of irrigation potential in valleys of high agri-
cultural priority, of CO)HBANA's structure and management
system, and of the use of waste bananas and plantains for
animal feed;
(e) training for COHBANA staff; and
(f) incremental expenditures for the PU.
Line of Credit and Flood Control and Drainage Works
47.       Subloans would be granted over four years by participating inter-
mediaries (PIs) to farmers, ranchers, municipalities and contractors for
technically, financially and economically sound investment plans. The
credit program is expected to finance (a) farm and ranch investments, mainly
in sugar, rice, bananas, plantains and dual purpose cattle, but also in
perennial tree crops like cacao, citrus and coconuts, land clearing for
seasonal crops like soybeans and corn, and crop storage installations;
(b) the construction or rehabilitation of municipal abattoirs to improve
the hygienic condition of meat on the domestic market, make full use of
by-products, and reduce pollution from the abattoirs' effluent disposal
systems; and (c) the purchase of hieavy machinery for drilling boreholes
for water, land clearing and drainage. Small-scale subborrowers are expected
to be chiefly members of organized agrarian reform groups, although individual
investors would also be eligible to receive investment credit. The program
would be nationwide, but limitations would be introduced for the Guayape
Valley to avoid any overlap with the potential beneficiaries of Loan 1576-HO
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3). With regard to livestock
development, it is expected that most of the cooperative ranches would be in
the Aguan Valley, where livestock dlevelopment is being promoted by INA on
large areas of cooperatively managed land. Banana and plantain development is
expected on the banks of the Ulua RLiver in north-western Honduras. In addition
to credit to farmers, the project would provide credit directly to COHBANA to
finance necessary engineering and civil works for flood control and drainage
in this area. COHBANA would ultimately recover the cost of these works from
banana and plantain farmers in the area (see paragraph 65 below).
Terms and Conditions of Sublending
48.       The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
to BCH on the same terms granted by the Bank; it would relend the IDA credit
to BCH for 20 years including 10 years grace, at an interest rate of 2 percent
per annum. The average cost to BCH of Bank Group funds would be about 7 percent.
The rediscount rate of interest charged by BCH to PIs would be 10 percent per
annum. The difference between these rates, approximately 3 percent, would
constitute BCH's margin for foreign exchange risk and incremental operating
costs. All funds repaid to BCH by PIs that are not needed to pay principal,
interest or other charges, or to adjust for negative cash flows, would be used
for additional lending for similar purposes for a period of 20 years (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.06(g)).
49.       At least half of the total value of subloans would go to small-scale
farmers, defined as those who either are beneficiaries of the agrarian reform
or who derive at least 75 percent of family income from farming activities



- 15 -
and have net farm assets (including land, farm machinery and livestock,
but excluding any assets to be financed under the project) no greater than
US$30,000. Subloans for small-scale farmers would finance up to 90 percent
of the value of their investments. The farmers' own participation would
include family labor and contributions in kind. Of the lending program,
15 percent would be provided from the PIs' own resources, 8 percent by BCH and
77 percent by the Bank Group. For other farmers, subloans would cover up to
80 percent of the investment, to be financed as follows: PIs, 20 percent;
BCH, 10 percent; Bank Group, 70 percent. PIs would also be required to provide
the short-term funds required by project beneficiaries to complement their
investment plans. It has been agreed that BCH would maintain adequate
rediscount facilities for this short-term finance, as well as the revolving
fund created in 1973 to facilitate IDA-financed lending operations (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.01(e); Schedule 1, paras. 2(c), 2(h) and 11(b);
Schedule 2, para 1(m)).
50.       Subloans would have final maturities of from two to twelve years,
including up to five years of grace, depending on each investment plan's cash
flow projection. Subloans would be denominated in lempiras, and BCH would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The PIs would assume the credit risk, although
as established under the First Agricultural Credit Project, BCH would guarantee
the outstanding principal of any subloan in the event of expropriation, under
the agrarian reform, of the land on which the investment plan is being carried
out. PIs would be encouraged to accept interim land titles as security for
subloans. As noted in paragraph 38 above, BCH also hopes to obtain liberaliza-
tion of the banking law with regard to loan collateral and guarantees. Except
as approved by the Bank Group, an investor who is not a small-scale farmer
would be entitled to borrow no more than US$100,000 or an amount aggregating,
with subloans under Credits 179-HO, 434-HO and 628-HO, US$150,000. The
corresponding ceiling for small-scale farmers would be US$25,000 or, for
cooperatives, US$25,000 multiplied by the number of members of the group. The
cost of breeding livestock would not normally exceed 50 percent of the value
of any subloan, although in special cases the Project Director could approve
larger amounts up to 70 percent, provided that over the whole project subloan
portfolio, investments in livestock do not exceed 35 percent of total project
investments. The project would not finance the purchase of livestock for
fattening (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 1, paras. 2(i), 2(j), 2(k) 3, 9,
10, 11(a) and 11(e)).
51.       PIs would be allowed to charge subborrowers 14 percent per annum on
the outstanding balance of each subloan. This represents a 3 percent increase
over the rate under the First Agricultural Credit Project, which is consistent
with recent increases in interest rates in Honduras. The rate of domestic
price increase in Honduras was 5.0 percent in 1976, 8.5 percent in 1977, 5.7
percent in 1978 and 8.8 percent in 1979. Since domestic inflation closely
follows international inflation, future domestic price increases have been
projected accordingly at 8 percent a year. Therefore, the 14 percent final
interest rate paid by subborrowers would be significantly positive in real
terms. The 10 percent annual rediscount rate of interest charged by BCH
to PIs would allow the PIs a margin of 4 percent to cover administrative
costs, risk and profit. This represents a reduction from the 5 percent spread



- 16 -
under the First Project, which was granted to cover the additional costs PIs
would incur for enlarged technical staffs and to compensate for uncertainties
as to how the agrarian reform program would be implemented. The reduction to
4 percent under the proposed project is justified because of lessened uncertainty
about land following issuance of land reform regulations, and because redis-
count percentages have been somewhat increased (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 1, paras. 2(e) and 11(d)).
52.       It has been agreed that the Government, the Bank Group and BCH would
from time to time, at the request of any of them, review the lending terms and
conditions to determine if they need be adjusted to ensure the continuance of
the incentives for lending by PIs, especially to small-scale subborrowers, and
to maintain compatability with other rates charged in Honduras, provided that
the final interest rate to beneficiaries remains positive in real terms (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 12).
Forestry Development
53.       The forestry component would be designed to develop, on a pilot
scale, the organization and management systems necessary to initiate a major
national reforestation program. This pilot phase would be in western Honduras,
where it would be complementary to, but independent from, a rural develop-
ment project being undertaken in the area with IFAD financing. This project
component would consist of: (a) establishment of nurseries to produce pine
seedlings for reforestation and broadleaf tree seedlings to be grown for
firewood; (b) reforestation of 3,500 ha of pine for timber production prin-
cipally on state-owned land; (c) development of a forest fire protection system;
(d) formation of a forest managemenl: unit for existing forests; and (e) 12
man-months of consultant services and 24 man-months of foreign training for
COHDEFOR staff. Also included would be vehicles, equipment, office facilities
and furniture.
Studies and COHBANA Training
54.       The project would finance studies of the water resources and appro-
priate development strategy for a valley or valleys of high agricultural
potential and Government priority, probably largely for either the Comayagua
or Jamastran Valley. It has been agreed that the Government would provide a
precise proposal on the use of these funds no later than September 1, 1980
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07). In addition, studies
would be carried out on the use of waste bananas and plantains for animal feed,
and on ways to strengthen COHBANA's management, administration, accounting,
financial and technical capacity to enable it to deal with its increasingly
important role in developing Honduras' banana industry. These studies would
be carried out in accordance with a program and specifications to be approved
by the Bank. The project would also include 24 man-months of training for
COHBANA staff, to strengthen its capabilities in the areas noted above.
Project Unit
55.       The existing PU and Project Director would be maintained.  The PU
utould be strengthened with four new professional staff, required office
equipment and furniture, farm demonstrations and field days, eight man-months



- 17 -
of training, six man-years of long-term experts in animal production, pasture
management and farm economics, and eight man-months of short-term crop special-
ists. Thirty-six man-months of trainee staff would be provided on rotation by
MRN, INA and PIs to work with the long-term consultants.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       Total project cost is estimated at US$38.5 million equivalent
(at December 1979 prices), including US$5.0 million for price contingencies.
The contingencies on the foreign exchange element were calculated assuming
annual international price increases of 10.5 percent in 1980, 9 percent in
1981, 8 percent in 1982 and 7 percent from 1983-85. For local costs, it was
assumed that domestic price inflation would be 8 percent per annum. Cost
estimates are based on representative enterprise investment models and exclude
(a) an estimated US$1.5 million of family labor and inputs in kind; and
(b) the regular ongoing operational costs of the PU, to be financed from
recoveries under Credits 179-HO, 434-HO and 628-HO. The average gross cost of
the 133 man-months of internationally recruited consultant services included
in the project is estimated at US$6,200 per man-month, including travel and
subsistence expenditures, and the average cost of the 56 man-months of train-
ing is estimated at US$2,200 per man-month.
57.       The proposed IDA credit of US$5 million and Bank loan of US$20 million
would finance 65 percent of the total project cost, representing the estimated
foreign exchange component of US$19.3 million plus US$5.7 million of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified in Honduras for the reasons stated
in paragraph 14 above. The remaining 35 percent would be provided by sub-
borrowers (US$3.3 million), PIs (US$3.9 million), BCH (US$3.1 million), the
Government (US$1.2 million), and COHBANA and COHDEFOR (US$2.0 million).
It is proposed that retroactive financing totalling US$100,000 be provided
from January 1, 1980 to establish the forest tree nursery required for the
first year of tree planting (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1,
para. 4(a)). A breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are contained
in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Implementation
58.       BCH would be the principal executing agency, operating through the PU.
BCH would make medium- and long-term subloans for agricultural development
through public and private participating intermediaries, and public corporations
would carry out the banana (COHBANA), plantain (COHBANA and MRN) and forestry
(COHDEFOR) components. Studies would be carried out by COHBANA and MRN. All
these agencies would sign Project Administration Contracts with BCH specifying,
inter alia, the relending arrangements for loan/credit proceeds. Funds for
forestry development and COHBANA's studies would be relent by the Government
through BCH to COHDEFOR and COHBANA for 30 years, with 10 years grace, at a
0.75 percent service charge. Funds for the MRN studies would be passed on as
a grant. It would be a condition of effectiveness that one participating
intermediary had signed its contract with BCH, and a condition of disbursement
for any participating intermediary or agency that its contract had been signed
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c) and Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
The foreign exchange risk on the forestry and studies components would be
carried by the Government; that on all other components would be carried by
BCH (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4(B)).



- 18 -
59.       Project Executive Committee.  It has been agreed that a Project
Executive Committee would be formed by September 1, 1980 under the chairmanship
of BCH and including the Project Dir(ector and senior permanent representatives
of the Ministry of Finance, MRN, INA, COHBANA, COHDEFOR, BANAFOM and the
Bankers' Association. This Committee would meet regularly to monitor and
coordinate the activities of the project and review the programs, budgets,
progress and annual evaluation reports of the PU (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02). In cases of issues which may affect national agri-
cultural policy, it would report to the CPA for appropriate resolution.
60.       Project Unit.  The PU would have overall responsibility for admin-
istering and supervising the project and specific responsibility for directing
the agricultural credit operations. The PU would establish and disseminate
to PIs technical standards and operational procedures for the preparation,
assessment, control, servicing and evaluation of agricultural investment
plans. It would also help PIs develop technical training courses for their
staff and improve their organizational and management procedures, and would
supervise and assess their performance.
61.       Participating Intermediaries.  Under preceding projects, all invest-
ment plans required approval by the Project Director; in the proposed project,
this responsibility would, to an increasing extent, be delegated to the
technical staff of the PU and to those PIs whose competence is deemed accepta-
ble by the Project Director. Eligibility of institutions for participation
in the project, and the degree of delegation of subloan approval to them,
would be determined based on their experience, financial condition, managerial,
administrative and technical capability, and network of branch offices.
Credit applicants would be assisted in preparing investment plans by the
technical staff of PIs or by private technical consultants. Small-scale
farmers would receive this assistance free; other farmers could include
fees for private consultants in their investment plans, up to a maximum
of 5 percent of the total amount (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 1, paras.
1, 2(1) and 5).
62.       BANAFOM would be a key PI since it is the only bank specializing
in serving small-scale farmers. Since BANAFOM is undergoing a major reorganiza-
tion (see paragraph 40 above), it would be a condition of effectiveness that
the new law to restructure it as an agricultural development bank had been
approved by the Government (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(e)).
It has been agreed that BANAFOM would forward to the Bank for comment details
of proposed changes to its policies and structure arising from the implementa-
tion of this law (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
Training Component
63.       Training would be provided under the project to COHBANA, COHDEFOR and
the PU. In view of (1) the importance of this training to project implementation
and (2) the fact that it involves all major project components, and in order
to avoid the slowness in organizing such programs experienced under previous
projects,it would be a condition of effectiveness that these training programs
had been approved by the Bank (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(d)).



- 19 -
Banana/Plantain Component
64.       The banana and plantain components in the Ulua Valley would be
executed by COHBANA, with MRN collaboration in the provision of inputs and
services for plantains. For banana subloans, COEBANA would also act as
financial intei.ediary, channelling funds from BCH to the subborrowers in
accordance with its Project Administration Contract with BCH. Funds for
plantain development would be channelled through BANAFOM.
65.       Because the proposed areas for banana and plantain development
are in contiguous areas and have joint needs for flood control and drainage,
it has been agreed that a Banana and Plantain Development Administration Unit,
within COHBANA, would be formed by September 1, 1980 to oversee and coordinate
these services. Under the project, credit would be provided to COHBANA to
finance necessary flood protection and drainage works. It would be a condition
of disbursement for these works that detailed engineering studies for the
first year of investments had been finished and that the Bank Group had received
a satisfactory program for cost recovery from the ultimate beneficiaries
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05; Schedule 1, para. 4(c)).
COrHBANA intends that this program would achieve 100 percent recovery of
drainage works and an appropriate pro-rata recovery of flood control works,
and would include both the cost of the works and the cost of funds. The
recovery would probably be achieved through a charge levied on each box of
fruit.
66.       The land for the banana and plantain component is State-owned and
occupied by squatters who are mostly subsistence farmers. Many were formerly
employed by the banana companies and are familiar with banana production
techniques. Since the banana plantations can only be managed economically
in blocks, the Government has decided that these farmers are to be organized
into cooperatives for both land ownership and production purposes, under
the supervision of INA and COHBANA. The plantain growers would be left to
operate as individual farmers, since the need for block cultivation is not
essential. It would be a condition of disbursement for the flood control
and drainage works that the Government had presented a satisfactory program
to incorporate these farmers in the project (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(c)).
Procurement
67.       The on-farm investment items to be financed by subloans would
be varied and not suitable for procurement through international competitive
bidding; therefore, subborrowers would purchase their requirements through
regular commercial channels. Whenever an individual order for goods, works
or services (other than consultant services) exceeded US$50,000, price quota-
tions would be obtained from at least three suppliers, and approval would be
required from the respective PI. Foreign firms are adequately represented in
Honduras and there is a good network of competitive suppliers of agricultural
inputs. Also, facilities for maintenance of machinery and equipment are
adequate. Civil works amounting to about US$1.6 million for banana, plantain
and forestry development would be carried out through force account by COHBANA,



- 20 -
MRN and CORDEFOR and/or through locally advertised competitive bidding proced-
ures acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles and equipment, estimated to total
US$200,000, would be procured by the PU and COHDEFOR through local competitive
procedures. The remaining expenditures, such as materials and services, are
not suitable for competitive bidding.
Disbursement
68.       The Bank Group would disburse:  (a) 77 percent of amounts disbursed
by PIs for subloans made to small-scale farmers; (b) 70 percent of amounts
disbursed by PIs for subloans made to other farmers; (c) 77 percent of the
flood control and drainage works for banana and plantain development; (d) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 67 percent of local expenditures for
forestry development, studies, training, vehicles, equipment, additional
project unit salaries, farm demonstrations and field days; and (e) 100 percent
of consultant services.
Project Benefits
69.       Under the proposed project, the number of direct beneficiaries
would be approximately 12,800 persons, of whom some 11,500 would be small-scale
farmers and their families. The mairt benefit would be increases in the
incomes of these beneficiaries, whose! average initial per capita income
of US$158 is under the estimated average rural poverty income level (US$170)
for Honduras. With the project, the per capita increases in annual income
at full development are estimated at about US$500 for sugarcane, US$600
for plantains, US$700 for rice, US$800 for dual-purpose cattle operations
and nearly US$1,200 for banana development carried out by small-scale farmers.
As a result of the project, many of the beneficiaries would also move from
a situation of underemployment to one of full employment.
70.       The project would also have a considerable impact via increased
agricultural output, with an estimated annual incremental production value
of US$21.5 million. The most economically important products would be
bananas and sugarcane. About US$1.1 million is expected to accrue annually
to the Government from the banana export tax after full development.
Markets
71.       Project production would conlsist principally of sugarcane, rice,
milk, beef, bananas, plantains, timber and firewood. Sugar mills in Honduras
are operating under capacity, and the Government's aim is to provide them with
an adequate supply of sugarcane. Although domestic sugar consumption is
increasing, most of the sugarcane wouLd go to increase exports. All rice
production under the project would substitute for imports. The supply of
fresh milk in Honduras is insufficient; pricing policies and consumer prefer-
ence suggest that most of the project production would be sold as raw milk.
The cattle produced would be mainly culled cows for domestic use, and weaned
calves to be reared for beef production for export to the US. Both of these
markets are currently expanding. International banana marketing is complex
and dominated by international fruit companies. COHBANA has limited its
activities to producing bananas and not marketing them, and the Government



- 21 -
will probably continue to rely on marketing contracts with international
exporting companies. Plantains produced under the project would be graded
into three categories and sold to the US, other foreign markets, and
domestically for consumption. It has been agreed that satisfactory marketing
arrangements for plantains would be established by September 1 1980 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). Forestry firewood seedlings
would be sold to the IFAD project at cost and pine thinnings and timber would
be used by the local lumber industry.
Financial and Economic Analysis
72.       Financial projections of the illustrative investment models analyzed
for the project indicate rates of return between 23 percent for livestock
and 58 percent for rice. However, the forestry component has a rate of return
of only 6 percent. The main reasons for this unattractive financial situation
are the long period before substantial returns accrue (25 years) and the low
stumpage value attributed by COHDEFOR. 1/
73.       The economic rate of return over 30 years for the entire project
is estimated to be 55 percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that, even
with large decreases in benefits or increases in costs, the economic rate
of return would still be acceptable. However, the economic success of the
project would be more dependent on output prices and yields than on the
cost of inputs. A 50 percent decrease in benefits would lead to an economic
rate of return of 9 percent while a 50 percent increase in costs would still
allow an economic rate of return of 25 percent. A separate economic rate
of return was calculated for the forestry component. Using shadow rates
for wages and stumpage values, the return is 12 percent, thus indicating
that the reforestation component is economic.
Project Risks
74.       In view of rapid commitment rates under the First Agricultural
Credit Project, the proposed project should not face major risks in terms
of farmers' willingness to borrow. There may, however, be some initial
reluctance to participate in view of the changes in lending terms since the
First Project -- a higher final rate to subborrowers and a smaller spread for
intermediaries. These new terms reflect changes in national economic condi-
tions and will be carefully monitored to assure their continued appropriate-
ness. The credit component also faces a higher risk than under the First Project
since a greater portion of the funds are expected to be loaned to small-scale
farmers. The efficiency of BANAFOM is critical in lending operations to these
subborrowers, and for this reason passage of a law on its restructuring has been
made a condition of effectiveness. Implementation of a program to regularize
the land tenure arrangements for squatters in the banana and plantain area
will be important to the success of this component. The Government is aware of
this, and INA has considerable experience from similar exercises successfully
1/  Although the State owns all forest trees in the country, COHDEFOR is
required to pay private landowners a stumpage value for these trees.
At the moment the value paid by COHDEFOR is only about one-third their
real value.



- 22 -
carried out in other areas. The risk of hurricanes in the area is also
important, but investment in flood control works and a shorter variety
of banana plant should minimize the long-term effect of any storm damage.
Under the proposed project, Pls would have greater responsibility for subloan
approval. In view of their experience under previous projects, and the
supervisory role of the PU, this is not considered a major risk.
Environmental Impact
75.       Farming investments financed through this project are not expected
to have a harmful effect. The principal plant protection chemicals would be
fungicides on bananas and plantains which have been intensively tested and
approved by the US, where most bananas are exported. Improvements to the
drainage system of the Ulua River and to the effluent disposal systems from
municipal abattoirs should have a beneficial ecological impact. In the
long-term, the pilot forestry scheme should have a significant, positive
impact through catchment protection in the denuded headwaters of the Ulua and
other rivers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan and Credit Agreements between the Republic of Honduras
and the Bank and Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Central
Bank and the Bank, and the Report of the Committees provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft agreements conform
to the normal pattern of loans for agricultural credit projects, and their
more important features and special conditions have been included in Part IV
and summarized in Section III of Annex III to this report. There are three
special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan and Development Credit Agree-
ments: (i) that one PI has signed a Project Administration Contract with BCH,
(ii) that the law to restructure BANIAFOM has been approved, and (iii) that
satisfactory training programs for the PU, COHBANA and COHDEFOR have been
presented to the Bank Group. It would be a condition of disbursement for each
participating agency that it has signed a Project Administration Contract with
BCH, and for the flood control and drainage works of the banana/plantain
component, that detailed engineering studies for the first year of investment
and satisfactory programs for incorporating farmers into the project and for
cost recovery of the works from these farmers have been presented to the Bank
Group.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
March 28, 1980



-                                     ANNEX  I
Page I
TABLE 3A
1owzf C lm  IZNDICATORS DATA SUET
OIWIJS                    -EElRcE ocams(DJUSTED AyCgS
TOTAL    .      112 1                                                  S          S         EXT 11G11
AGuICUTUCA       2S.9                               ?0ST RCEN      GZOGRAPRIC   INCOIU       INCOME
1960  /b   19170 /b ESTDATE /b      30ION /c  GROUP /d   GROLtP /I
aUp Pn  CAPITA (USS)                180.0      260.0    4S0.0           1124.4      467.5      1097.7
EChU CONSmUTION PER CAPtTA
(KILOGRAMS 08 OOf   EIVE)         155.0      247.0    264.0            943.1      262.1      730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PQOlATION, nUX-r.   (MILLIONS)      1.9        2.6       3.3
D    POPULTION (PERCENT O TOTAL) 22.7         28.7      32.0.           59.3       24.6       49.0
POPULATION ?I=TOWS
POPUATIOV IN TZAR 2000 (aLLIMS)                        7.0
STATIOARY POTULATION (MIUIONS)                        15.0
MLAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS UAC                   20M0
POPULATION DOSI?!
PER SQ. Km.                      17.0       23.0      29.0            23.5       45.3       44.6
FIR SQ. I). AGII1LTURAL LAOD     67.0       91.0    114.0             80.5      149.0      140.7
POPULATION ACC SCTUCR  (PERCENT)
0-14 Ms.                         45.5       46.1      47.0            40.9       45.2       41.3
15-64 Ys.                        52.0        51.2      50.0            54.4      51.9        55.3
65 n5. AND ABOVE                   2.5        2.7       3.0             3.9        2.8        3.5
POPULATION GROVU RATE (PEUCQNT)
TOAL                              3.3        3.1       3.3             2.4        2.7        2.4
UM1                               5.3        5.4       5.3             3.7        4.3        4.5
CRUDE SIRTI LAT  (PER THOUSAND)    51.0       49.0      47.0            32.8       39.4       31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEU THOUSAND)    19.0       15.0      12.0             8.5       11.7        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION  ATE              ..        3.4       3.4             2.4        2.7        2.2
FAMILY PLANNtN
ACCPTORS. ANNUAL (TSOUSANDS)       ..       12.7      23.0
aSEs (PERCZNT Of HMRIED WOMEN)    .                    9.0            17.7       13.2       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         79.4       96.0      86.0            99.4       99.6      104.4
PUr CAPITA SUFPLT OF
CALOIIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  84.0       99.0      90.0           107.0      94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         53.0       58.0      56.0            60.4      54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANftAL AND PULSE      21.0       25.0      20.0            28.3       17.4       23.5
CHILD (AGEs 1-4) MO&TALITy &ATE    30.0       20.0      14.0             6.7       11.4        8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRT3 (TEARS)   46.0       53.0      57.0            63.6      54.7        6..2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         130.0      117.0    103.0             76.1      68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PtRCMT OF
POPCLATION)
MTAL                               ..       34.0      46.0            63.4      34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..         ..      82.0            79.5      57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..         ..      27.0            38.6      21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRQTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       24.0        ..            58.8      40.8        46.0
UR3AN                              ..       64.0        ..            77.8      71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..        9.3        ..            24.5      27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..      3710.0/f 3300.0           1841.9    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..         ..   1420.0            933.7    1522.1      1195.4
POPUILATION PER HOSPITAL BED
WUTAL                           590.0      570.0    660.0            563.4     726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..      150.0        ..           279.4     272.7       253.1
RURAL                                    11810.0        ..          1140.9    1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..      24.0            25.7      27.5        22.1
W0US INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
OTX.L                             5.7          .        ..             5.0        5.4        5.3
URBAN                             5.5          .        ..             4.8        5.1        5.2
RURAL                            5.7 '        *                        5.3       5.5         5.4
IVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOrAL                             2.4         .         ..             1.3        ..         1.9
URBAN                             1.8         ..        ..             1.3        ..         1.6
RURAL                            2.7          ..        ..             1.5        ..         2.5
ACCESS  O ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
WOTAL                            15.0         ..      25.0            54.3      28.1        50.0
URBAN                            56.7         ..      67.1            80.1      45.1        71.7
AURAL                             2.0         ..       5.5            14.2       9.9        17.3



- 25-                                   ANNEX  I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED APERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
-MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 67.0        93.0      89.0            107.3       82.7       102.5
MALE                 68.0        94.0      89.0            109.1       87.3       108.6
FEMALE               67.0        93.0      88.0            107.4       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0        12.0      i3.0             40.5       21.4        33.5
MALE                  8.0        13.0      13.0             40.4       33.0        38.4
FEMALE                7.0        12.0      13.0             39.0       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDUtY) 24.0         18.0      2'.0             18.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           32.0        35.0      35.0             37.1       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         10.0          ..      17.0             17.9       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       45.0          .-       57.0            77.4       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         5.0       5.0             29.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        68.0        57.0      54.0            172.1       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         8.0      16.0            67.9        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 21.0          ..      35.0             76.1       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              4.2        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      590.0       780.0     979.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  12.5        12.8      13.3            21.5        29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.2        66.5      63.0            30.2        62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.6        12.5      14.7            23.8        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5        30.6      29.8             30.9       37.1        33.5
MALE                                55.3        53.5       51.8            47.3       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               7.8         7.8       7.9             13.3       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.6       1.7              1.5        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEROUS      ..          ..        ..             23.7       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS    ..        67.81g                     58.7       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         2.3/        .             2.9         6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         7.3&        ..             9.9       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    240.0            265.6       241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    170.0             185.1      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (TUS6 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    235.0            396.3       179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      75.0           308.1       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      14.0            35.2        24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      %1.9            46.6        37.5        35.3
Not available
Ilot applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric seans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicacor and the most pooulated country in each group. Coverage or countries among :he
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recenr Estilate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America i Caribbean;  /d   Lower Middle Income (5281-;50 per capita, 1976);  /e  Incermediate
Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/g 1967.
Sost Recent Estimte of GXP per capita is Eor 1978.
August, 1979



-26-                                             ~~~~ANNEX  I
26  -~~~~~Page 3
Notes:  Although, the dota  -r  draw  fr-  souce  general ly judged the most sthuiseatto- sd re~lai, it should also be neted that they nay sne  be inten-
tiona.ly tapseale beso-n  of the  at  of ot-asdno -d Aefisitinn   and concpts used by llfea    -cutte I n colcIgthe data. The data are, nntees
usfu  to-d-o-h  order  ofenoud, indicate treds, ted sh-st-ebe  cetain  -aJor  difter-rt Ie  eccutIs
The ndj-toed gr-p ae-ge- foe enob  odictoe ate poplation-weighted g-catrio ses, esoldiog the est-e    ousof the indicator ted the a-t populated
toutr  in enh grou.p.  Xco  to  lan  ofldta, grop  -reges of all ldi-nt-r  foe Capital urplu- All topert-r  ted of iodato-o of Access- to Wate  nod horeta
,ityosni  Rounng    oose Dllstrltubosi  ad Pteey for other osIstry grops are  popn.stio--seghted gesmetrl  net  nith-ut enslusi   of the estreneele   n
the most copulted couotry.   ino  theooraoo  osutrieaonal  hidosto,rsdepends oaailabilIty  of data ted is not unIform. oto  an   esnr   e
io relation a zerae  of one Ailoatr t                            -g-e.   hnstre  ar -otly usefu  as aPp-esatono   epoe' cle hnoaaistek                     olun  f  n
indlostor atati-e earn  thc coutry ted referee.e genuon.
ALO ARiA )thssasd oq.km.)                                                                   kosto toesDesa   mests   ssain      os],ubn                                      ae] 
Wgrieet-.tss  -  Sa.t resst estiate sf orielmsel slo  seed tp,maiby                         peeeetw.s of their reapette pnpuitio-o  bert. dsisosal1 W  barmod
ne p -seetlye f- crePe, pature, mkst sod kitche  gard-  or to                             the colistlino  an  disposal, with we sthest tees-nt, nf  =n  aserts
iefslice.                          .                                                    nWoewtrby eater-bare  syota    er the as  of pit prieles end e-.mi.
GNP UPE  CAPITA CoS$) - liFP pee capita satiate  st meret    keAt prices,               ~          i Nplts b oi.in  - FPps.Utisa dlided by,-ste   of prsobbiseg phystoi-n
-al,slltsd by  am   ese tsomman   -  VSnIl. Bank AtIa  (19,76-,7Abets 1-WLI9iI1Eiisa   cool st nobirity  -lerl
1960, 1970, and 1978 dtbS,                                                                Flault-  -s troa   Person - Peplatie  divIded by aste   of pemti.nig  ale
MAtCiNBOWPIWUCAIA-Ssalcasatsofoireassysd   alt.I  gr~Adts morss, pestttl ases,sd sasiatem mt                                                                    ss
(ral an  lig.ie,potrel-sm   saturalga  sdib-yd5- mf                e--                     Pmeslatbn      HcositalfBed-toa,ubn  an   ua  -P ltis (tt.].  urban
tbsen. sleetr iby) in Ailngra onf -a.1 squiralt Per ospht.; itAb,                           end rurl    iddtbedby their epstler ssts f hnepil4a.l hs.e callble ho
1970, and 1976 dt.ts                                                                        public and private gas 1]  ed apstalice   hosapit.1 end rehoilitatisaostea
Heapitasl  -c  eetablieb-mts prsat'stffed by an lsot oa  physbla.
POPiJIATION AND OffAl STPATISTICS                                                             BatLblieb-te preiding pedmoipelly cotedial car  -s' ash brtssdsd   R-u
Total Ftpsltie.  NdYesii.ins(- As of ,ysby 1; 1960, 1970, sob                               hospitl *1 horer,talds brath and   adil es-ter  ant peemetly etaffed
1977 dt.t.                                                                               by *tw phalebn(las by a --dioal s it=st  _us, ai,iwfe, ate.) whIch offee
prhao FPAesltbon (merest of total) - Patin of  rbacto acts.1 ppesl.tiio;                    ia-patist  o-nditiss sad p-eode a limited range of medical facblitbs..
diffeest dsf tnltbs   ! urhs  ara   Wy affect -cspa-billty of data                     Admlssiemo 55remt] Be             TPtal somber  f adaoslo.s tn or discharges from
..,g. nutesa  1960, 1970, sad 1975 data.                                                 hna.pitd   divrded by the osatee of liso-
lo-al.tton ho sea  l0D0 - Curret poslatios pe-jatti-  se  b-ae  sa                   iflSrIG
1975 tetal popoition by age and -estad their  Mortaity sad fertillity                Aerage Bliss of Slo.aebld (e s  te  household  -tta                55. ad rnrl 
rae..P""Je~otiss paratsr   for  -ortilty rates c.Wie   of three                        A htssbold ceobets  fagspe   slisauascaslnn   qurters and
leeds a_aisg life  -sp-ctaey at birthe i-ee-lg with  -nstey's                          their ants meal.  A sssd-r or lsdge-   y or ssy nst he ioluded in the
pee captai  incom  1se1l  -d0 frasle life e-pootay steilisiag et                      hl.iue ld for sttiatics1 porynaso.
77.5 yearn   The paamters foe fertility rats alas bas thes  le-el                    Averag  -eahrofprsn  perrc   tst    urban  and rura  - Ar-rage culie
accusig deolins is fertility asosrding ts Io-a  level and past                           fpersn  Pee runs in a] urhn  andrue] occpied eentinnldwlics
faly  `lsaidg p-rfoe.an  tch neontry Is then acahamd  -a  of thene                   reapentiey    dwlig   nld               -pe-mset struture  sad ua-pied patto.
wins estiotisna of mortalt   n etlity           treds foe peojenticaAoeaa  trtiet' (percet ofideslilo ) - total, urba, so  cro.l -  Coo-
purposes.                                                        esn~~~~~~~~~ticecl dwellings' ettleetricty in linIng tuaer  as percetage of
statiosr o..   esla.tion - In a stat ios..y pcpsa-tion ther  is no groth                  total, urha, and rura  dwellings rep-ctiely.
abase the birth ratsInequal to the death  ste, sod alas the egs
structure rmains  onett. Tobe is shiered oly atde  fertility rates                EDUCATIONI
decline to th   epl-nset lerel of omit net reh..sincaeae                             Adjuted Asro1lst  WaIna
ran  generti on o   00m       ls       it-slf e-atly.  The stationary pebo-            Pri-ar sebmol - total  sle and female -Grss total, mal  and female enrol-
latlceebe-eso  estimted on the basin~ of toe proJected ehatsLtiear                       met of all ages at the prleory lar1 anp-eretages of reapectire ypr               y
of the popsltion in the year 2000, and tbe rate of decline of fertIlity                   e-hn-a-ge popsoitiono; norjIpy  -laldec childre  aged 6-11 year  hut
eate to eeplanement becel.                                        adjun~~.ted fo  differet lnhoof prI-ar  edsotlon; for ooutcle- dit
hear tstaiono   noltlos is remhed - The year when s.taisay pojestiss                        u    Irea].eucto   onrller7-t sop eced 100 p-rest wince sou  papils
nice ha. been readie,aelelwo   h    the offlal ace   ae
PPclatios D-nity                                                                            iSonsdor anhnol - total. sale ted f-ale  - Computed as ao-e;seoondsry
Per eq. ko. - Mid-year populnaine Per  qnar  kilomter (100 hsotar-) sf                     eductIon reqaire-  at least four year  of sPpyro-d prls-y  o-t _ootito:
totalae                                                                                  pruidesgnra   tmona,o  heat her t-aiing inst-utloo  for pupilo
Pee no  .  aglulu an td - Compted an  b-v  for agri-nitur  land                             -asaly of 12 to 17 year  ofaeI         oercpund-necue r  g-eneraly
only.enudd
PoPulation. Age Structur  (esreen.t) - ChIldren (0-lA year), s-ridog-ege                    Psetional euol t (percet of seesnday) - Veatho..al i-stitottoo   i.eol.de
(15-h6per)  an   etrd6  yernad eeer) so peetages of mid-year                               tcia iodtia,eother program   shich operte iodepeedetlyors
poe Ctno   bi  1I1,td 1977 dt,dprmnso   rcde   stotse
Rouslo  cehito  (p.rc-t) - tota   -   ..s.o Iceoth rates of tots.1 mid-            dppitecrraicr.r.ndecdry-faltunaerold1
yea  Population   for ..   -d,1960-70, an  1970-77.                                         prta-y and  -noodery 1ecel  divided by, want eeof t-eaonr  it the ooerc-
pocolation Aesoh Oats (ereot   --uran  A- twn] guwh rates of urbse                            apudiag leocl-
puushonfr    .1h,  9-7,ad17-75.                                                 Adl(Pert   a e po-et) - Literate adults ~ahloos.esd ad ones) w
Crude torch  ate  se., thusted)- -Anua  lice births per thos-td of aid-                       ap-retage of total adult copulation aged 15 years ed over.
year Ppupultio; 1950, 1970'     n  1977 dat5.
Crde beat  bat       etonu mo)-      1saa dstho Per thousand of aid-yea                CiNSiIJPTCCO
poultion; 1  0, 1970, and 1977 data                                                  Passnge  Cars (per thonand preition) - Po...eger can  -spri-e motor  -
leracRepedutittte- Rt         orage nanta  of da-ght-r  a  os ill bea                       neting len- that e~ght pesns        .ocueu .     uaon  he--r  ted nilitary
it he.  ecrel repr-du-ti-e period if she e-pri.enes  present age-                        _sh'iole
specific fertilIIty rotco; uscally fir-yea  averges edndg in 1960,                     Radio  seR-r--  (c- tlicsosd ppsatn              Alnl types of.-eie-e- for radi.
1970, and 1975.                                                                          becs-ten  to gonra  publo   e  thoonad of puplation; -eludes ulice-od
coll Pissig -Aecector,. Anoua  (thicadn( -  an].oner of                                    reeveoIncutries end in year _beh  egi tration of  .di,, -tet  oat Ac
occeytoro of  irth-ssotroldeetre  under anapieofntional famIly                    effeet; data foe recet yenta se  not he  -op-bale ailce sootcolr
planisg program                                                                            olished licening.
coolly Pla inob    - lore  (cerceot of nried sos) - Per-tnae of maried                   TO Reesi-so(e Phztoanpolaio -TVrcvesfrhodwtcgord
noe  o   hild-beaing~ Age (A   Years) sic u-e birth-ootlcl d-ri-e                    publIc Pertussdppotc;eidsunl                         edTrcevsivuair
Ocsl  arcied 0m    nen  age goup,ndi yea   h-e regintr-tios of TV nets .on xi effect.
temancper CItroultiln   (pertiuas pu ltift)d- ttnthe aterg  eoir-clatlon
Toden o   hodPrdci          -  Capita (1969-71-100) - laden of P        er cpita           drooted peimoily to recoding general neo-    I  in coaldered to he "Icily"
esnual producico of all fod cosmodtic-    rod-cti-nec-cre  eeda                    if it  ppe-r  oh lea-t four tAies a  -een
feedtedp ion cacaedaryeabas             Coasdities corer primar y gssdn                Cinem  Ansul Attendane per Capita  ec lea    B-haed -s the outer of tivketo
(e.g. -ugar-     In-tead of -uar) atch are edible ted  -tosal  -,trle-to                  od1Td during the year, iccluding aasocsto dII y-in ci,ora  mod nbl ie
(e.g. coffee end ten are eooluded).  Aggregate production of eah coa..toy                units.
ho   ato  cpl   f  aore  (crcs ofr ireneto) - Computed fro                      1A000 PORCE
eoergy equitalet of -et food aspyiles  cailable i. country pee capita                Total Lho- Force (ithusnds) - Eooconio-lly ortive per-on,inuigore
per day.  A-silable osppiies  -cpri- domontit p-etdsio, imp-rts les                    forces ted uneployed but c uigh-ueiven   toudento, 000. efic,Jit,-o
ep_rto, and chn-geiact-c.  Pen oupplien eeludo animal feed, -cedo,                     in vai      I-cutries  ror  sot v-p-bsle.
quat itiros-ed in ford p-oes-io,g, and 1--c  in diatribstlon. Oenrgole               he     leret  -FeaeIhrforce as Pereetage of totl tahoe forcy
-rt  er   ohiasted 'oy Oil hbned cc phynioiogival seeds for normal               dg9tyJ             ft(-abrforce ic faming, fcretr, hunting end
activity ted healthj ...nid-rig  er        etltemperature, tody eeiglitc,              fishing anprersntags of total Ishc- force.
ng  ed ac   iatrituti_nf_ppltc,sd alsn   10 pe_ont  cv                             Industry (peecet) - LaborfreI-wg,aotuta  s-Otturogn.t
as.ot  st houeholdbl-cel.                                                              elcrc -c,eteredgas aspretg.fttlI.aocfuoe
.erc it suppl  of protein (Rams pEr dat  -  rtin vYteo'pr                              Pricpto  Rte  pecet)-otl  male. end ceasle-   ariiao                            r
apit  ar_spplyof food per day. Net -spply of.fod in defased asaciviy races- ae.oputed en total, mae, and femal  lahsr_focaspr
.b.or. Ortaire=   to foe all  ountrirI-tescah-7by Ur onoproide fo- a                    -chgee of tonal, owls md feenle population of nil agerspeciey
otias   llnnv  of 61  eso   .toa  protein pay day ted 20 gram  of                  1960, 1970, and 1971 data.  Three are Ill's  paicipetio  rates reflectIng
atins. td pnloe protrie, cf which 10 gram  should be -iAma  protein.                    ge-nest-ut-  of the pupulatia, and longtime tread.  A fee rota'iot-
Thete ~tc,t-lo  te   one1 thatth,,   lloau   5ge-  oftotal pecten ted                 ar  frcm national e_uoce_
25 gram  of teial prcti _ _e_tavrge for the _ocld, Proosd by FiO              teossin been ey Rstia -_Rstlo of poylatios under i  end 65 end  -cr to
ithoe Third World hood Survy.                                                          the lao  frein  g grou  of 1-6u Years.
her sapit~ a-etea tuoly feu  atisl and pulu   - Pr,onein a-ply of food               icmDS
Chilli ags1i   oaiyRc    ret-ssd(-Atslbths Per thocomd                                    Peraatae  f Privat Thoo     (both in  aoh and hind) - ce-cined by rioheut
it age grcup 1-i yeats, to vlild-eo it this age grop; foe moat deve1-                    5 percet  riclhct2'0 percet, puoreno to percet, sad psocec-t 40 percet
oping coun.tries data deri-ed from  life tublie.                                         of ho...eholda.
IPaIC                                                                                     PI2CRTY TARGST G000070
bits    , toetancy_ noRIth  ec        A- deae  -b-he  of years of life                    ntimated  -bolt putery Incomo Iced~ S ( 1 -pe capita) - uha  and rurlI
velninga  birth; l1 -,1970, and 1977. data.                                            iait   eet   cselvli   in    os   ee   eo                        he      iin
Iofent ertc lity sate (per thountd) - A-..al deatho of infants umd- sa                        trinionsIly adequate diet puo essetial non-fond -eqai-teel  is  not
Yea  of age Pee thounad lite births,af nc.dbil..
ALcres to. i.fe W.te  (seccee of, pplatic    -i totl urban an            rl-              otlasted RetasyetyISc$ evl(1  pe  capita) -uban ted rurl
MBare  of pepl  (ttl,at,b           n  rrl  siheaonble ances  to                          mRal ee'laht  p-er   isC_m  Itl_  in can-third of acerg  Pee eapt
oafs cater opply (i.olsdes treated surf- at ena-  cc  -stead htpec-onal inosm   of tie coutry. Urba  level is dented from  the  -rural locei
uncontaminated nater wash so chat fro  protected   -horehto  spring,                      mini ad.)utmat fr higher cot of liclag in urbanaes
andominary esil) atpeoennget of lb i  r-apoetics pupuatim.-  i                       iEtmatd PRoplanin melee hbbolute PosryIca i-e  rcnt      ea   n
anubn -e  a puhiho f-antin or etadpoet located not --r than                          rua       ecnt ofppoainuhcndralabaesuote et'
P0  eter  fr-  . h..s. ma he coniderd as beIng  ithin  -es,nmale
access of that hos . i  rura  oeas es--ble ases  mould imply
that the h...seuife or  -obe-a of tlie household do sot isre to sped a                                                          o.ono-mic ad ioSi i.   ta Dlisioin
dioprcpocti...tn Part of the day is ftething the  al.             sater  reds                                               EcoomcAalysis and heojetssan Rep-tent
A.Sgest 1979



-27-
iOONOUOs                                                                                2/13/80                    ANNEX T
Page 3
68180   5  ,ASE%Mi OFT   tAEISTM
SOAASOAT OF TOT-ONCE OF PAYMENTS ~      ~                                                                    I                            P         j    ~CTf 
F  ESAFOT    MSNT                        07          -T            F.--0                     M            -Mi-A       -OF           -,oA         -OS.M          -NA.         -87.4        -92 0~   -A9A.0
00OITOO   O   809  000            57          -0 --IO.F1:2            -T           -210          -1.0         -0 0, I     -52.7         -54.4           -970        -OF- I       -IO   A      -20.3.
NI., AFT.TI  IMoNsTEA                                                                            -2l      0N 1     40 14A 1.  a           5             99            O  08 0-                  7-01          44: A
I0I.        1  A0000   FOO    FNFIAN         A           T0           1.4           0A           A)           A7            07          F  0.        50-            2670         20.          50a           220.
F.  ONSATO A O7ONF -LIFATLOAN  0 0  4 1          00           5.9         0~~~~:317.79  "0  00         Fo5                    -T                  7 s       -.O             0 -O
9.  -OTOA _OT0FA S           N )                ITI        7  A~        99- 7        95 0         190. I       AII.A        15.9         005 0        07.            07  0          0-          001          I0.
10 . G -aOO.OTIN  --O 0-          ,                       -0.0         -9.4         -13 0        -139.2        28.0       - 416.3       -40 01        -090            NA 91,     -99.'         -`II  9      -M9i-
TINA  TIF              ..F.F.T       T         O,   0      70 0          05           0I          OTA         Ao            11.0         IBO           20149          04          OAI 0.        000          4005.
090FF  1281 L.ONS
14  151  TTIOOOF0IT                            0            0          -O             0            -             02         .0                                       -0              00B
TO  ONA 01 791 OFOOLECIT       TO          071~          ~~ ~          ~ .0  03    `10.            0            0            0,          .0              0                          0            0
I      OFFGSTTOF100)                        0 -07        007 N         T.          00          T -0         I D 9         0.9D1                     0  0           0             0  0         0o 4 
NlI IN "ll-El ~ ~ ~ ~   ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        M E           00         CA O T    TO aI                 A
GOOF   TT                                               00           -          040           N            N.
FIEDOOT AN  0a00 TAO  D'EI  IOTTOOGOF OO T    A          I     IDII VIT               N
T-00010010GI(TT.14100                       0            00N-                     F            O            0.
.F FF000                            o~~~~~~~~~I   0                         o           . o                         .FaFL  EE 3ASTO20NO   a
OIAFTD    070  F                               0B           0           .0o          .0         1o            0                                                                I'llF EITI  7  F FA9700.             005.0         0007 9         974
~~~II DI-  -T-TI.1  1,                  S., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFAFO007 EFDO                                                                        -ll          -I-F           F99 032-0.                            -5
a  11 2o                 o~~~~~~~FOE  6909- 018   NEF------  0---   0----0--
8EAOM-EGOOIFaS                                                                                                                   aTL DEFT  SA_ OFTE 1T-T                                                  1  0         OA5         -4  5         -5-
GOT   911S0'00                                       40E0         0   7        0.3          4   0         4 109FET  F9100FF007                                                             7-7          S.F7        43.            05 I 
O  TGFFG   INOLT  S   OFF00                               00           09          .0            00          .9                 AA   EO        F10(IT  0                                     0 E9-L-0.8-              13.5':       10 7          1.4
0   GGFDOGAMFI7TGTTIIITMMOT  00 400  07100  00030  20.000      09.A00       10.000              MES    NAEGT0                                    1.-1                     1.5s          2.7A       IB.7           0.9
FAA.  FET  SEOGFF,TTT0   OF0FIOE    0.0            9          '10          10.1         210.1        1.
FT.  9AT9A   ADA/OTAL-0-                          21       71 Al          0.8          0.5           4 F,         5.
IT I-L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-DEFE2ECA0000FMMOTDB
FOTEONIO  TOOT    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1 oo                  1-1          II I00I-I ~        O      1    2
2  I  'IT,        IV           D                       :-I                                         .,,T '"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    A8S   FOE IT"0FS(AO.0T00                         19           0             80          0 
I   -8FF                                                1'0.0                         10.0D                                     NET TANAAIFAOF-              0.60)04                          F9          F  0         T             2T1
OFOEM SOLFILTIODOI.                107.0         20.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II                                                                I122.
01 870Gb  OFOTFOLL, F, TNIoIo FOaTOTOFO  (71          0     I      01                                                           E T.        D D 
SGFDLOFOG                          04.0          3.0                                       1688 DFNF.20M005 TOTAL AFOF                   00.2          00.9         10.4         15 7          S.F          15 0~1,    II  .~  ll  .~
OTOFO ANTI  DEFT                           0             0                                        SEFOFET                                      000~~~~~~~~~~~~~M    02F7I               0           01.1         IA
70140  00600-; DOFT  I FNCT-00000 OCT 1000,00007  010.0         1003                                      FF40-AO  a--A,   IAGOT,.    FL
168.1  28.5                                 Z...~~~~~~EF  VFOO                           0 0         45 00         0.,0,                       00         2.
S_t...                                   7   ?         3                                              DIIII./G-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~A/SCUOASNA    TFFEC   ITJGES-AO-T  1-008



-28-
ANNiEX I
H04909AS
2-13-So                    Page 5
ACTIUA L                                          EST.                P R O__E_C_OED0 I - CO AT                                     ATIE S                lA7A
lAS   1977          AlA9         ASS9         CE
ARs         1770         1978         1977          1978         1979        lARD           ADS5        1990        l4           1979          045         lAss          OP
T1091.A. ACCOUNTSI II
(MIL,LION   0'US5  AS    1975  PRICES I
GAMASS DOMESTIC POIJCT                      7S1.Q        A9.7        1148.8       1237. 0       33..        1420.7       1505.         1050.1       2511.A         4            7.3          5.6          ST          '00.
96155  MRM TE RMS OF DEC77                   87.5'       119.3         30:.8         4.~7        51.6        -19.3        -19.0         -75.4        -62.4                                                              2.7
AmOOMSFC1014                                          10589       .1179.        I_093 814I.1141.  .3                    IA.            8-         24-                          .           5.            C.         I_.T
IIWA8TS                                    74.4         599.         47T           4.3         970            4. _R93.A                 A3         1134           47           a.           R.            5.2        41.5
EAPOTO    "011A1                           -267.0        -AA.        -3623.       -430         -61.          STI          628.9       S077.       -105             3.7         17,2          T, S          - 6        33 4
EOPO6T   II D SOJLTIE                      -348 2         I           432         -4793.7      .5S34.3      -547.7       -809.9       -798 7      -188.            7.7          A 9          A5           0.3         3  0.
RESCUrCE DOC_     T   475AD5.                             D8            3.           7.A         738          8.5          8.           135           85325
TO'TAL 'CD6579PIT                           7730N349                 1703         18.           148         1148.-a      120.':3'     1530.         1925.7         3 3          4,V          4.           4.71S 097
1AR4E57861I 131.                                        330.3         213 0     -304.7          339           304         348.3        A70.         609I 0         7                         GA1  .       5.0         9a5
NATIONA4L SV:IVVS7                          113.2         85.4        195          133          2511.5        174.0       239.3         283.4        415.1         45,         -4E A         05           7.A9AS
RO8ESTI   S7110                             138'240                   149 1        337.1        2511.2       234.4        2,44.8       7?592         523.8          .          -0.5          7 .3         7.8          13.50
lOP AT  U,07H1%7                             0           71,4.8      1263.0       1564.6       16119.0       2164.8       2421.9       62411.5      7191.3         9.?         18.4         11.0         1 II
SECTOM C7TP:11
(5444C  01UR VS17                                                        9                      O 110 0'3,                             a176126
SERV    JR                                  777          TOTS         07AV         0.23 067710               0.29         0.0 0.225                   .95
IISJST8V                        0.314,  -   T.23          )37.21         2 0        0.20       - 025          0.A24         7  290          1
SRICFS                                   0.31,        0  1          .3            .435       0423         0.427           42         7.9          T41
PRICES I   1775     100)
10XP81  PRICE 114017                        5179         5477          95           88         14312        14.2         17.24        706.0        219.18            H          0.A          0.6          6.2
WORT8 PRICE INISEX                         3A8          II7         107.90       11.5          128.7        4144.2       14214        277711       295.20         7 0          0,7           lA5~.4
TERMS TFII"AE   S4                        7.141       172.79        1000        11.6         111           96.354        96.9         01.06        94.57        -o A          -5 0         -17           0
489 OEFLATV3A  (1751                        97.4         7607        I9 94        124.3         134.36       152.         140.4        215.97       296.30         9      ~     10.5                       5,s.
ANNUJAL R-EP-E  E-I7lN0F DATE                2 77         2.00         7.0          2.00          2.U          2.0965
'073  1774        ~~~~1075      1976         1977         1079         1979          1067         lA8s
EA RENT                                                                 --L-- ..     ----                                     --    
(MILL. IONS DFOLIO 
1.1 P000                    22.7         01.1         45.~    ~ ~~~~~          ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~0 373  41.  52.5  56.9      70.4         113.0
1.2 00660 775170910 A7005     42 2         4~~~ ~ ~~~~~5.7  4A98     893             I7.      1435          961.7        170.1        304.
2.  PETROOIEUM. OIL, LVS4ICANTS               25 5         6.5           8.          S3           77. ~7       78.3        192.4         1A7.A        438.1
3.OTHER ISTER6EOJ0TE ASCOTS                  170 2        170.    -   13.            5.           6.          23.           24.         292           52.
4.  CAPITAL 0905                              10.5        180          110.8a       13R.         28.           1.           290.5       295.4         510.2
5.1  TOTAL C000S 1CIF1                       2V9.6        419.0        410.0        489          5809         71'4.         642.9      1039.3        1918.0
A.NOEl-FICTDA  SERAICEO              -        50.1         77 6         92.2        100.4        138.8         81.60.4                                153.1
1.  ITOT. -0000   650 N07                    707 I        450.0         52,4        5-47         953.3        761.5                    I11-4.       2071.6
II]'  1774         ~~~~~1975    1976         1977         1919          1979         10-0         IAAS
COARENI UToAIS
1.1 86991.6S                                  44 70 79.                 Al 5        104. 7       127.9        191.         200.4        222.5         34.
1.3 FF0EE                                  97.4         43.9         55.9         10.          11.          2110l        19.          25.          389
1.3 12680                                     30.1         40 7         79.9         40.          47.3         42.3         42.1         47.1 '       '164.
14BEEF                                       10          109          1.           25:.8 -      2.           38.9         57.4         98.3         118.
1.5U5A60.                                                  .           7.           9.           12           5.5         13.5         256          91.9
19L544                         70           6.~     ~    ~~~~         ~~~          ~~~~        ~~~~~5 6. S3   .  3  11.9   17.1        31.5      -
I.7 2'0 31                                                 10.5         16.01        118          1.8          1.           21.           46             .
2.  MA9IIISC1LCVO 00003430THE.        S07          7.            40          9 4.        104.0        107.1         159.0        19.           55.1
3 ALOIR  TDO.                         5           17.2        213           458          21.0         2.           44.          57 1         9.7
4.  EDTIL 0702$1 .0.0               I        766          209.9        I771.        409.         522          929.          79.         RD I         14.
S.  509-077100 SOROICES           ~~~~        ~      ~    ~~~~2723 33.4  35.9  3.      503          419           79           _20         1852
8 .N011   000   S  DS731                              73.           S4.          -45.8        572.5        68 41.                     8          1913.
V.L49 Added
SELECTED  -9'117AT0                        IS-7         1977779      1979-Os      1085-00                                                                      0O0900 PER 606006              IsOor F9,9.          1 0x.-   e
-    ----- - -n -- 
1006                                         5 0          34           4.30         4.9                                                                                                    -179         1979       1711
IPRT  OLASTIC7T1                           097           117          1.017        1.0                                      AgPiS,,Lt-P                                                    .617        43.0       606        5.
82668666  DATI-ADL $0150  0610               019.17        15          0.15         0.1                                                                         IIISASO                      .169        4.        2132      177.1
64691941  941111511  SHOIIISS RATE  0.17  -~~~~0.1      0.2I         0.2                                                                         SCrAR                         -19        22.3      2093       189.6
IMP5ORTOP;                                 0E57           .4          0.40         0.45                                                                         TRIAL.90                              1.0         24        100
INVESTMES/'1P                               0.21         0.24          0.24         0.240                                                                                                               100         24        (.
M1565480E GO P/ADS)                          0.05         0.06         0 06         0.04                                                                                                   -           -         -        
P491IC 92N4NCR IS.LRRtRd !sdlAoAraI)
Cosotral 9O4erTmeTSO  ~1990    1970    1976    1577    1579    1975    1993                                                                            PDETAIL SCOR                              Aoftoual           ,g. d
5.8                                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~146599  040816-3          1907         99
012  ...1 fRR8AoOs/P     12. a   13.2    1.       159     15.3    14.7    15.969(4 lureE andPR0RA 97                                                                                             3.0-7    10.2~7       16.5~
C-rrTt 0499dI1...R.            .2     11.1    14.6    14.4    14.3    14.2    14.4                                                                             2Or02.7                                           184..       3.
Ote tPAA .SRO  1.0,,9.   2.   1.       2.4     2.9     3.4      3.3     3.s                                                                            Tran...s ant  d 04-214  19-           52.9        4.1         2 6.
546146 S.19  Inotlmet          2.       .6     7.3     89    10.1    10.7    101Dthr                                                                                                                             12.4         1.5
TRIAL Expesdf tu.e.                 IO10.0      500.0       100.0
CU469 ENTEPEN9ITURE DETAILS ABU9D8ET                                                                                                                            FIN 90PIA20PTLEPA00E
TRIL -       ren  6996.            19706   247     179    19405                                                                                             Pub'ic. 68909, S4'(949                39.9       49.4         49.9
6012949                                 76     247     2.       25.                                                                                             0.90141 RAOR I                         4.3         1. I-
Ote   4(0Srla                          14.6    10.0    14.5      70.7. EP6II Ein85SAeg Ones)                                                                                                          so.4       47.0         4 0.
RHgI9LIAr                               0.8     9.0    10.4      6.400959Eas(9(el                                                                                                                     14       --05        --22
015I cr 61000.14    ri--i,,g.3    13.9                 13.2    12.
Ad-i,,i--ti.. M D.f-   35:9  21:,l  31   21:4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11. 100.0   100.0  q.
100.0   100.0   100.2   100. 0
3/I-ILAII    --t8S d-.eLRo-t 88p,,d1ituPR..



29                         ANNEX I
Page 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO HONDURAS BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-79
(in millions of constant FY79 US dollars) /1
IBRD/IDA    IDB      CABEI /2    AID      TOTAL
Transport                   104.0        38.2     113.5          -      255.7
Power                       121.0       77.0       69.2       10.6      277.8
Education                    13.6       20.7          -       10.2       44.5
Health                          -         7.3         -         .4        7.7
Housing                         -        14.1         -        1.3       15.4
Agriculture                  32.1        75.9      12.8       29.2      150.0
Manufacturing                15.0        91.9      12.5        4.2      123.6
Water and Sewerage              -       56.9        6.5          -       63.4
Other                        19.5        2.5        9.9       34.6      66.5
305.2      384.5      224.4       90.5   1,004.6
/1    IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
/2    Excludes operations with the private sector.



30                        ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of January 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit                                                     US$ Million Amount
No.   Year        Borrower            Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen loans and credits fully disbursed    61.1   34.5
841     1972  Emp. Nacional de       Generation and   12.3      -        0.8
Energia Electrica    Transmission
896     1973  Honduras               Roads             18.8     -        0.2
434     1973  Honduras               Second Live-
stock Dev.        -     6.6         - 2/
954     1974  Honduras               Education          3.0     -        0.8
1081    1975  Emp. Nacional de      Generation and
Energia Electrica    Transmission    35.0       -        1.4
628     1976  Honduras              Agricultural
Credit             -    14.0       6.0
1341/2  1976  Honduras              Highways          35.0      -       14.6
1395/6  1977  Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports              12.0     -        4.1
777     1978  Honduras              Education            -     5.0       5.0
1576    1978  Honduras              Rtegional
Development      10.5.   -        10.2
1629    1978  Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica  FPower              30.5     -       23.0
1659    1979  Honduras               Industrial Cr.   15.0      -       15.0
1673    1979  Honduras              T'ourism           19.5     -       19.4
Total                                 252.7    60.1
of which has been repaid              29.7     1.0
Total now outstanding                 223.0    59.1
Amount sold                 4.5
of which has been repaid  3.4          1.1      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA 1/                           221.9    59.1
Total undisbursed                      89.5    11.0    100.5
1/   Including exchange adjustment.
2/  Approximately US$30,000 undisbursed.



31                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year                  Obligor      Type of Business    Loan    Equity   Total
1964/66       Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A. (ECCASA)           Tannery         0.30    0.08       0.38
1969/70       Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)             Pulp and Paper      -       0.08     0.08
1978          Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V.            Textiles        9.00    1.00    10.00
Total gross commitments                  9.30    1.16    10.46
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                               6.30    0.16       6.46
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                  3.00    1.00       4.00
Total undisbursed                           -



32                         ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 841   Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
About 90 percent of the project, which included 26 NW of
diesels, an interconnection line to Nicaragua, a load
dispatch system, studies and training, has been completed.
Its full completion will be delayed until mid-1981 due to
slow preparation of the load dispatch system and the addition
of a geothermal resource study. Project costs have increased
by 14.3 percent (about US$2.3 million), to be financed by a
loan from the OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation
of the Borrower.
Ln. 896   Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The construc-
tion of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road (the main project component),
the Comayagua-La Libertad Road, 80 km of feeder roads, and
technical and economic studies for 430 km of feeder roads have
been finished.  Preparation of engineering studies for 3 rural
roads has delayed completion of project works about two and
one-half years beyond the original schedule.
Cr. 434   Second Livestock Proiect:  US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
December 30, 1979.
The Government has largely achieved the objectives of this
project.  All funds have been committed and the final dis-
bursement application is being prepared.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



33               ~~~~ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 954   First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan of January 9,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$3 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes agricultural
training centers, an extension to the agricultural school at
Catacamas, vocational training centers at San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa and teacher training facilities. These project
elements are all substantially completed. The small amount of
remaining funds has been committed for equipment and furniture
for the Catacamas school.
Ln. 1081  Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
This project includes the 46 MW extension of the Rio Lindo
hydroelectric plant, distribution system improvements, rural
electrification works, studies and training. The plant
extension went into operation ahead of schedule. Some
US$1.1 million of the savings under the loan, realized from
lower than expected steel prices and other cost reductions,
are being used, with Bank approval, to finance part of the
extension of 35 kV lines to serve rural areas in western
Honduras from the Nispero power plant. This project is
expected to be completed by 1981, two years later than
originally estimated.
Cr. 628   First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 million Credit of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. All credit funds were committed ahead of schedule
by the end of 1979. Difficulties in recruiting suitable
internationally experienced technicians, who have now all been
hired, have resulted in slower disbursements than forecast for
technical assistance operations.
Ln. 1341! Seventh Highway Project: US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342  US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness:  March 16, 1977;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with construction
works ahead of schedule and of good quality. Due to heavy
rainfall, additional protection works are planned for a portion
of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road. Procurement of
maintenance equipment is 90 percent completed; consultants in
maintenance operations have been retained and their technical
assistance is progressing well. Preparation of the Highway
Master Plan is complete.



34
ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. 1395/ Third Port Project: US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396  million on Third Window Terms) of April 22, 1977;  Date of
Effectiveness: December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$5.0 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes the construction
of Puerto Castilla on the north coast and the expansion of San
Lorenzo in the south. The civil works contractors at Puerto
Castilla are about twelve months behind schedule, mainly
because of failures in key equipment and delays in obtaining
proper spares and making an effective start on pile driving.
The new facilities aLt San Lorenzo have been put into operation.
Cr. 777   Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Disbursements have been delayed by procurement difficulties
but the construction of the rural primary schools should
begin shortly. The design of the forestry school is completed
and bidding has begun, and design of the agriculture schools
is nearing completion. Specialists in school mapping and rural
education are being recruited, and in-service teacher training
should begin shortly.
Ln. 1576  Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million Loan of
June 16, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government has established the project unit and appointed
its staff and other officers required for the project. The
special revolving fund is now operating and procurement docu-
ments have been approved by the Bank. Three training courses
have already been carried out, and a research program is being
implemented. Credit operations and road construction and
maintenance have begun.
Ln. 1629  Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 million Loan of December 15,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major equipment componaents for this project have already been
ordered. Most of the consultants have already been engaged
and the main civil works contractor has begun operations.



35
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. 1659 Industrial Credit Project: US$15.0 million Loan of March 8,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The new Industrial Development Fund has been established and
capitalized; its initial staff has been recruited. Participa-
tion agreements have been signed with CODHEFOR and a number
of commercial banks. The Bank has approved 5 of the first
10 subprojects presented for review.
Ln. 1673 Tourism Development Project: US$19.5 million Loan of June 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: November 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The foreign experts and their local counterparts have been
hired and interagency agreements for project implementation
have been signed.



36
ANNEX III
Page 1
:HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICIJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Even;ts
(a)    Project Preparation and Pre-Appraisal:
(i)   First discussions with Government:    March 1978
(ii)   Bank identification mission:             October 1978
(iii)   Preparation by Central Bank, COHBANA
and COHDEFOR; assistance provided
by FAO/CP and OAS:                      September 1978-
March 1979
(b)    Appraisal Mission Departure:                   March 1979
(c)    Negotiations Completed:                         December 14, 1979
(d)    Loan/Credit Effectiveness Planned:              July 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank/IDA Impleimentation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that:
(i)    At least half of the credit program would go to small-scale
farmers (paragraph 49);
(ii)    It would present a detailed proposal for the water resources
study by September 1, 1980 (paragraph 54);
(iii)    A Project Executive Committee would be formed by September 1,
1980 to monitor and coordinate project activities (paragraph 59);
(iv)    BANAFOM would forward to the Bank for comment details of proposed
changes to its policies and structure arising from the implementa-
tion of its new law (paragraph 62);
(v)    A Banana and Plantain Development Administration Unit would be
formed by September 1, 1980 to oversee and coordinate flood
control and drainage services for banana and plantain development
in the Ulua area (paragraph 65);



37
ANNEX III
Page 2
(vi)    Satisfactory marketing arrangements for plantains would be estab-
lished by September 1, 1980 (paragraph 71);
(vii)    As a condition of effectiveness, that one participating inter-
mediary would have signed a Project Administration Contract with
BCH (paragraph 58);
(viii)    As a condition of effectiveness, that the new law to restructure
BANAFOM as an agricultural development bank would have been
approved (paragraph 62);
(ix)    As a condition of effectiveness, that the training programs for
the PU, COHBANA and CORDEFOR would have been presented to the
Bank Group (paragraph 63);
(x)    As a condition of disbursement for each participating agency that
a Project Administration Contract would have beeen signed between
it and BCH (paragraph 58); and
(xi)    As a condition of disbursement for the flood control and drainage
works of the banana/plantain component, that satisfactory pro-
grams for incorporating farmers in the project and for cost
recovery of the works from these farmers would have been presented
to the Bank Group, and that detailed engineering studies for the
first year of investments would have been finished (paragraphs 65
and 66).






_______________        BRD     14362
l~~~~~ 4    v:    ~      ~     ~      n                                                            nOerm                      ME' (                         JUNE 1979
B E  L IZ E                                                                                     r/&            qd                                          aJrbn, 
/EL SAtEM NL<       ,I!J      ARAQ
7,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    ~
Irnsor ationald  Repitf
PDepartmn ounare
iGtrnatIonald ondre
tsr                                           t1/                                                                                   to.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m-Pt






_____________   __________   ___________   __________________   __ ___________                ___________________________________                                  R RDD 114 38
HF                                                               A  P                                          -~~ATL   N A 
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IN~~~~~'
L                                                                                                                                        Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E L        S A  L V A   D  0  R                   /     A~                              "                AREA  I-SUITABLE  FOR  INTENSIVE  USE:                                       AREA  2-SUITABLE  FOR  EXTENSIVE  USE:
L5~~~~T.  I ~~~~~                 S     .UITABLE FOR ANN .UAL CROPS:   SUITABLE FOR PERENNIAL CROPS:  SUITABLE FOR ANNUAL CROPS:   SUITABLE FOR PERENNIAL CROPS:
UT F  A                 HOT . HUID                          R.HT--BI                               ..T.HUMID                             0   UMIl.
4                                                                   Z'I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  EJifl{/ DODDU            [        HOT.-R                                 HOT DRY                      [OT11          V
-                                       A4C                                                                                                                             T-TFEE-TADOTCoD HMI                   TLIM-ATITE DUDI
AREA 4-SUITABLE FOR VERY EXTENSIVE
TC  EETFRCRAU   DCA                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~AREA  3-SUITABLE FOR  FOREST  USE:                                          LVSOKO              OETYUE
-                                                                      I                 DUIF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1A-L FOR TROPICAL HARTAOOTS              SUITABLE FOR VERY EXT-NT DF I DATOCK OR FORES-R Ll
SUITABILE FOR RUNORTES UT OTHE  HALOPHILO-S SPECIE
> ,1T                                            SURECE 8,ASRUOT ATA PROMFROUSTA ORBHTACTY   RTYR,ER.    T,dTEO                                                                       RYRAr



