Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2691-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
HONDURAS
March 21, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and inay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(at the time of appraisal and used in this report)
Currency Unit                             Honduran Lempira (L)
L.2.00                                       US$1.00
L.1.00                                       US$0.50
L.1,000                                      US$500
L.1,000,000                                  US$500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
and
1 quintal (q)               =        45.4 kilogram (kg)
22.0 q                                1 metric ton (m ton)
1 banana box               =         18.2 kg
55 banana boxes                      I 1 m ton
1 manzana                  =         0.69 hectare (ha)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANAFOM        Banco Nacional de Fomento
-National Development Bank
BCH            Banco Central de Honduras
-Central Bank of Honduras
BCIE           Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica
-Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CATIE          Centro Agronomico Tropical de Investigacion y Ensenanza
-Center for Research and Training in Tropical Agriculture
COHEBANA       Corporacion Hondurena del Banano
-Honduran Banana Corporation
COBDEFOR       Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
-Honduran Forestry Development Corporation
CONSUPLANE     Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica
-Council for Economic Planning
CPA            Comision de Politica Agricola
-Agricultural Policy Commission
IHMA           Instituto Hondureno de Mercadeo Agricola
-Honduran Agricultural Marketing Institute
INA            Instituto Nacional Agrario
-National Agrarian Institute
MRN            Ministerio de Recursos Naturales
-Ministry of Natural Resources
PB             Participating Bank
PRODERO        Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural de Occidente
-Western Rural Development Project
PU             Project Unit of BCH
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .............................................                1
A.   The Agricultural Sector .          . .........................    1
B.    Banana and Plantain Development ...................              6
C.   Forestry Development ......        .....................          7
D.    Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector ..............        ..      9
II.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT .........................             . .          10
A.   Role in the Agricultural Sector ..             .................    10
B.   Public Credit Policy .......................... 6    11
C.    Credit Institutions ..............     ..     ...............    12
III.    THE PROJECT            ............................................   14
A.    Introduction             ......................................    14
B.   Brief Description .................................              14
C.   Detailed Features .................................              15
D.   Project Cost              ......................................    19
E.   Financing .......         ..................................    20
F.   Procurement .......................................    22
G.   Disbursement              ......................................    23
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................e.                25
A.   Organization and Management ....................          O..    25
B.   Operation and Maintenance and Land Acquisition ....              26
C.   Training .........          .................................    27
D.   Lending Policies and Procedures ....             ...............    28
E.   Accounts and Auditing ..........            ...................    31
F.   Monitoring and Reporting ..........................    32
V.   PRODUCTION            .............................................    33
A.    Technical Assumptions ............ ..          ...............    33
B.    Specifications of Illustrative Investment Models ..    34
C.    Inputs and Outputs ......       ..........................    36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Honduras during March/April 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. J.A.N. Wallis
(Mission Leader) and M.H. Fairless (Bank), and 0. Castilla, F. Connor,
J. Landers and A. Mazel (Consultants). Messrs. A. Corcostegui and H. Wagner
assisted in the preparation of this document.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..............   ..             38
A.   Markets, 'Marketing and Prices ...... .                   38
B.   Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery . ..................       0
C.   Farm Incomes and Financial Analysis ....... .......       41
VIIr   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ,........                       44
A.   Economic Benefits and Project Effects    .............    44
B.   Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis ........    44
C.   Project Risks and Environmental Impact .......... . .     46
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........      47
SCHEDULE A - Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures ........      50
ANNEXES
1.  Terms of Reference for Project Director and Consultant
Services  .    ........,..........................                56
2.   Supporting Tables:
Table 1 - Agricultural Sector Contribution to GDP .........
2  - Agricultural Sector Contribution to
Mferchandise Trade .............................
3  - Land Availability and Utilization:  1975-1977 ...
4  - Number and Areas of Farms in 1974 ...............
5  -  Consolidated Balances of the Banking System .....
6  - The Project Unit:  Incremental Costs of
Administration and Training ...................
7 -  Phasing of Project Investments ..................
8  - Phasing of Commitments by Central Bank and
Bank Group ....................................
9 -  Cash Flow for Lending Program ...................
10  -  Sugarcane Investment Model:  Investment Costs ...
11  -  Sugarcane Investment Model:  Sales and Operating
Costs ....
12  -  Sugarcane Investment Model:  Cost-Benefit
Analysis and Financial Rate of Return .........
13  -  Sugarcane Investment Model:  Cash Flow
Projection (for a 20-member cooperative) ......
14  -  Sugarcane Investment Model:  Cash Flow
Projection (independent farmer) ...............
15  - Rice Investment Model:  Investment Costs ........
16  - Rice Investment Model:  Sales and Operating Costs
17  - Rice Investment Model:  Cost-Benefit Analysis
and Financial Rate of Return ..................
18  - Rice Investment Model:  Cash Flow Projection
(for a 10-member cooperative) .................
19  - Rice Investment Model:  Cash Flow Projection
(independent farmer) ..........................



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                           Page No.
2.  Supporting Tables (Continued)
Table 20 - Livestock Investment Model:  Investment Costs ...    78
21 - Livestock Investment Model:  Herd Development
Projections   ...... ............ .................  79
22 - Livestock Investment Model:  Gross Production
Value Projections .............................    80
23 - Livestock Investment Model:  Sales and Operating
Costs ...........................   ..............    81
24 - Livestock Investment Model:  Cost-Benefit
Analysis and Financial Rate of Return    .........   82
25 - Livestock Investment Model:  Cash Flow Projection
(for a four-member cooperative) .............. .    83
26 - Livestock Investment Model:  Cash Flow Projection
(independent farmer)        .........................    84
27 - Central Project Administration for Banana and
Plantain Development:  Investment Costs .......   85
28 - Central Project Administration for Banana and
Plantain Development:  Operating Costs ... ....   86
29 - Banana Investment Model:  Investment Costs   ......   87
30 - Banana Investment Model:  Sales and Operating
costs   .....  .  ....................................  88
31 - Banana Investment Model:  Cost-Benefit Analysis
and Financial Rate of Return      ..................    89
32 - Banana Investment Model:  Cash Flow Projection
(for an 80-member cooperative)     ................    90
33 - Plantain Investment Model:  Investment Costs  ....   91
34 - Plantain Investment Model:  Sales and Operating
Costs        .........................................  92
35 - Plantain Investment Model:  Cost-Benefit
Analysis and Financial Rate of Return    .........   93
36 - Plantain Investment Model:  Cash Flow Projection.    94
37 - Forestry Component:  Investment Costs . .........    95
38 - Forestry Component:  Operating Costs .... ........    96
39 - Forestry Component:  Financial Analysis .........    97
40 - Forestry Component:  Economic Analysis .... ......   98
41 - Financial and Economic Prices for Farm Products      99
42 - Economic Analysis of the Whole Project
(at  farm  level)   ...............................  101
3.  Selected Data and Documents in the Project File ....  .........   102
MAPS
IBRD - 14337    Rainfall and Land Development Projects Under Study
IBRD - 14338    Land Use Potential
IBRD - 14339    Forests and Forest Industries
IBRD - 14340    Agrarian Reform Groups (Asentamientos), Farm Credit
Offices and Grain Storage Facilities
IBRD - 14362    Transportation and Relief






HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
The Role of Agriculture in the National Economy
1.01      Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Honduras.
It contributes about one-third of the Gross Domestic Product (Annex 2,
Table 1) and 16% of Government revenue, provides employment for 63% (1977) of
the economically active population and generates about 81% of export earnings
(Annex 2, Table 2). In the early 1970s, the annual growth of the sector was
only 2% as a result of adverse weather and the withdrawal of Honduras from the
Central American Common Market. Hurricane Fifi (1974) led to a decline of 9%
in the output of 1974 in relation to the previous year and, with the effects
of a drought, caused a further drop of 6% in 1975. However, during 1976 and
1977 output increased at an annual rate of 5%.
1.02      During 1973-77, crops accounted for 67% of the value added in the
agricultural sector, livestock, including poultry, for 19%; forestry for 13%;
and fisheries, beekeeping and hunting, the balance. There were major produc-
tion variations for individual crops, although the proportion of the contri-
bution of the crop subsector to the total value added in agriculture varied
little. Banana output dropped in 1975 following Hurricane Fifi to less than
60% of the output in 1973, a slight recuperation was made in 1976 and further
increases were recorded in 1977 and 1978 but output was still below the pre-
hurricane period. There were substantial production increases from 1973-77
in export crops such as coffee (9%), sugarcane (23%) and tobacco (63%) and,
to a lesser degree, in the three main food crops (maize, beans and rice).
1.03      The trade balance in agriculture is favorable and increased from
an average US$200 million during 1973-77 to US$411 million in 1978 (estimated
data). Bananas, coffee, lumber and meat accounted for 69% of total export value
from 1973 to 1977 while imports of food, agricultural inputs and capital goods
represented 17% of total imports during the same period. Until the early
1970s, the sector was able to supply the food needs of the country and even
enabled the export of some food staples such as maize, beans and rice. This
has recently changed, as food imports have increased at an average annual
rate of 60%. Food imports accounted for about 9% of total import value
during 1973-77, the items that were usually most significant being maize,
rice, vegetable oils and milk (Annex 2, Table 2).
Rural Population, Income and Employment
1.04      Of the country's population, estimated at 3.3 million (1977) and
increasing at a rate of 3.3% per annum (1970-77), 68% is rural. The country
has a low demographic density (29 persons/km ) overall, but most of the
population is concentrated in the northwestern part of the country where the
soil and infrastructure are better than elsewhere.



- 2 -
1.05      Average GNP per capita is about US$480 (World Bank Atlas method-
ology, 1978), but a survey in 1967 showed then that the poorest 40% was
almost entirely rural, earned incomes that were about one-fifth of the national
average, and received only 7% as the4ir share of total income. Employment in
agriculture in Honduras is highly seasonal and under-employment is pronounced
although labor shortages can occur during harvest periods. Almost 80% of the
agricultural labor force is engaged in growing food crops for subsistence.
Although wage legislation stipulates a minimum daily rate, which was L 3 per
day in December 1978. actual wages range widely both above and below this
value, depending on local conditions of demand and supply. Opportunities
for off-farm employment are restricted.
1.06      The daily calorie intake of the lowest income group is estimated to
be 70% of minimum requirements for a normal life. Health standards are poor
and anemia, malaria and intestinal infections are common. In rural areas,
public water supply is rare and sewerage systems are either non-existent or
insanitary.
Natural Resources
1.07      Honduras has a land area of 112,000 km  and is divided into five
geographic regions. In central and western Honduras, the terrain is mountain-
ous and used mainly for timber, cattle and growing coffee under shade. The
Northeastern coastal plain has a humid tropical climate, poor soils and a very
low population density, being used mostly for extensive cattle raising. The
Southern coastal plain has a long dry season and only limited water resources.
The central valleys have relatively fertile soils with moderate supplies of
water. The northwestern valleys and coastal plain hold the most productive
soils and it is here that the important banana plantations are located;
the major limitations to production are flooding and inadequate soil drainage
(Map IBRD 14338). Away from the coasts, rainfall is poorly distributed
(Map IBRD 14337). Temperatures are even throughout the year, being modified
only by altitude.
1.08      The cultivated land, including pastures, totals some 1.8 million ha
but, apart from in the valleys, soils are generally shallow and with serious
deficiencies of nitrogen and phosphorous. A further million hectares is
classified as grassland and cultivable land (Annex 2, Table 3). About 7.0
million ha is forest (Map IBRD 14339) of which some 4.0 million ha are broad-
leaf forests, 2.7 million ha are coniferous and 0.3 million ha are mangroves
and swamps. Broadleaf forests are mostly tropical hardwoods, often located in
areas of difficult access; pine forests have better commercial possibilities.
1.09      The agricultural sector shows a dichotomy in its productive and
social structure. The low average yields in the subsistence crops are
a result of low technology production by small-scale farmers. Furthermore,
farmers lack adequate market incentives and facilities. On the other
hand, export oriented or industrial crops such as bananas, tobacco, sugar-
cane, cotton and coffee, employ comparatively high technology production
systems and have organizations that regulate and support both production and
marketing.



1.10      Although irrigation is often used for crops such as bananas and
sugarcane and, to a lesser degree, for tobacco, cotton and vegetable crops,
it is still far below its potential. Most irrigation has been by unregulated
diversion of surface waters, although there is some use of groundwater in the
Choluteca and Sula Valleys. The Bank Group is financing a groundwater study
of the Choluteca basin (Credit 628-HO), a study of part of the Guayape Valley
(Loans 1341/1342T-HO) and, in association with UNDP, a comprehensive study
of the Aguan Valley (Loan 1576-HO). The new Unit of Hydrological Resources
within the Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN) requires closer coordination
with both the Ministry of Public Works and the National Agrarian Institute
(INA) and an appropriate law to regulate water use is necessary before the
implementation of irrigation projects can be undertaken effectively.
1.11      Although the natural resource endowment of Honduras is limited
and not easy to exploit, the technical possibilities for raising agricul-
tural output still appear to be substantial. The available technology has,
however, not been widely disseminated. Cropping practices are traditional
with little use of modern inputs. Estimates from the Council for Economic
Planning (CONSUPLANE) suggest that the physical return to improved techniques
that are already known can be very significant:
Potential Yield
Increases with Improved Practices
Maize                                    66
Rice                                    141
Beans                                    72
Sugarcane                                51
Tobacco                                 178
Coffee                                   68
Potatoes                                484
Land Use and Distribution
1.12      Another possible means for raising agricultural output would be
through shifting land from lower to higher value farm enterprises such as
from low-producing grassland to crops such as sugarcane and rice. The Agri-
cultural Census of 1974 showed there were 2.6 million ha under agricultural
use in Honduras in that year, while later estimates have ranged as high as 2.9
million ha. However, in 1979 CONSUPLANE estimated that there were then 2.8
million ha of farmland, 48% of which were used for cattle grazing, 18% for
seasonal crops, 8% for permanent crops, and the balance of 26% lying fallow
(Annex 2, Table 3). A comparison between land that is actually used for agri-
cultural purposes and land that is believed to be of potential agricultural
use suggests that only 28% of the land which is suitable for annual crops is
now used for this purpose. The comparable figure for perennial crops is 18%.
These estimates suggest that considerable opportunities exist for increasing
the intensity of land use.



1.13      At the time of the 1974 Agricultural Census, there were some 195,000
farms of which 78% were of 10 ha or less yet occupied only 17% of the agricul-
turally used land (Annex 2, Table 4). The social pressure for effective land
reform in the first half of the 1970s provoked a series of land invasions
of privately owned land, creating concern among farmers and disrupting the
production process. The Government has given the subject of land reform con-
siderable attention and enacted special agrarian reform laws in 1972 and 1975.
The first interim law proved difficult to enforce and led to considerable
uncertainty. The second law (Decree Law 170 of December 30, 1974; La Gaceta
No. 21.482, January 28,1975) was more effective as a framework for the orderly
transfer of land ownership. During 1977/78, the tense situation eased somewhat
as INA's authority in land reform matters was more clearly defined. By the
end of 1978, INA had distributed 203,833 ha to a total of 35,586 families
organized into 1,240 groups distributed as shown on Map IBRD 14340. It is
expected that the majority of the small-scale farmers to be benefited through
the proposed project would be members of these or future groups. The Government
is aware of the difficulties involved in small-scale farmer development and
recognizes that the various programs undertaken so far have achieved only
moderate success. One of the reasons for this has been the lack of coordina-
tion between the various public institutions that operate in the agricultural
sector.
Institutional Framework
1.14      The principal agricultural planning body is the Agricultural Policy
Commission (CPA) which has replaced the previous planning group known as the
Agricultural Coordinating Committee. This new committee, which has its
own high-level secretariat, and only became fully operational early in 1979,
consists of five members: the Ministers of Natural Resources, Finance and
Economy and the Directors of INA and CONSUPLANE. Previous responsibility for
public services to agriculture had been fragmented among different agencies
and duplication of effort is still common. Excessive centralization and
shortage of professionally trained people are further constraints. However,
better techniques of administration are being considered in many Government
agencies with the support of US$25 million recently provided by USAID.
1.15      MRN, the National Development Bank (BANAFOM) and INA have primary
responsibility for agricultural and rural development. MRN is responsible
for animal health, plant quarantine, research and extension, some input
services such as machinery rental and the preparation of specific projects.
MRN has been reorganized and is receiving support under the First Agricultural
Credit Project (Credit 628-HO), but still has a weak extension service that
requires further expansion and training. BANAFOM is in the process of a
thorough reorganization and is discussed further in paragraph 2.10. INA,
whose main responsibility is the implementation of the Agrarian Reform Program,
acquires land and trains and provides guidance to settlers in operating their
group farms until they achieve full cooperative status and gain title to the
land. INA also has extension services and nurseries for cacao and citrus
trees. Other organizations perform significant agricultural activities in
more specific fields, such as the Honduran Banana Corporation (COHBANA), the
Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR) and the Central Bank of
Honduras (BCH) through the Project Unit (PU).



1.16      Agricultural research is generally deficient and detailed technical
recommendations are not available for all crops. The main crops that are
currently under research by MRN are maize, rice and beans. Facilities
are very basic and only limited progress can be expected. The Pan-American
Agricultural School, which has received funds from Credit 628-HO under the
ongoing Agricultural Credit Project, undertakes mostly livestock research
programs including pigs and poultry, while the banana companies have adequate
research programs for bananas, sorghum and groundnuts and have worked under a
contract for MRN on rice, soybeans and plantains.
1.17      Extension services are coordinated through MRN and most agents are
working with the agrarian reform groups (asentamientos) set up by INA. The
main task of these agents, however, is to produce farm plans for BANAFOM's
use in its credit program. Back-up services in plant pathology, entomology,
soils and fertilizer tests and publications are not yet fully satisfactory.
1.18      Most farm inputs are imported and sold to farmers through commercial
companies, with those for industrial crops often being distributed by the crop
processing plants themselves. The sales section of BANAFOM supplies some inputs
for small- and medium-scale farmers, and coffee and cotton cooperatives have
been effective in providing farm input distribution channels to their members.
The supply and use of inputs for the integrated production and marketing of
bananas, sugarcane, cotton, citrus, pineapple, tobacco and coffee are also
adequate. Some seed is now multiplied in Honduras, but much is still of low
quality; there is no seed legislation or seed certification service. However,
MRN distributes some improved seed through sales agents and intends to set up
a seeds laboratory that will be partially financed from Credit 628-HO.
1.19      The production and marketing of bananas, coffee, cotton, tobacco and
sugarcane is well integrated vertically and has so far been handled mainly by
the private sector. Most other commodities, such as 50% of the basic grains
that are marketed, some 90% of the vegetables and a high proportion of live-
stock and dairy products, are sold at municipal markets. The recently formed
Honduran Agricultural Marketing Institute (IHMA) is responsible for stabiliz-
ing and supporting prices of agricultural products. So far IHMA has intervened
in the marketing of four basic grains: maize, rice, beans and sorghum. Beef
is marketed through two channels: one for export, mostly to the U.S., and the
other for the domestic market through local abattoirs that often have inade-
quate standards of hygiene. A new abattoir has recently been inaugurated in
Tegucigalpa that was financed from Credit 628-HO. Pork is usually produced by
small-scale farmers for domestic consumption, while poultry output has increased
recently through the development of large integrated production and marketing
firms. The Government controls the consumer price of milk but not the farmgate
price. Pasteurizing plants are underutilized and much of the fluid milk that
is consumed is sold, unpasteurized, by street vendors. Milk imports have
increased significantly, probably because of the lack of incentives to dairy
producers. A national livestock survey, with special emphasis on product
marketing, is to be financed from Credit 628-HO.
Public Policy for the Sector
1.20      In its second five year plan (1979-1983), the Government states
th-at: (a) state intervention in agricultural development will be oriented
toward promotion, support, regulation and control, rather than active



- 6 -
involvement in production; (b) greater attention than in the past will be
directed towards the small-scale, independent farmer and a thorough analysis
of past results of supporting settlements of group farmers will be under-
taken; and (c) determined efforts will be made to integrate the different
public entities related to the sector to avoid unnecessary duplication of
work. One of the main goals of the plan is to attain production levels of
basic food grains that would allow self-sufficiency and small surpluses for
export. To assist on-going settlements, land titling processess will be
accelerated and Regional Agricultural Committees strengthened to help settlers
in the management of their settlements. Priority will be given to future
settlements that already have some level of infrastructure, including under-
populated, existing settlements in the Aguan Valley and the banana areas that
are to be rehabilitated. COHDEFOR's Socia'l Forestry Program, which is aimed
at offering the rural poor employment alternatives, such as conversion from
subsistence farmers to forestry workers, is to receive full Government support.
New grain silos and on-farm storage are to be given emphasis as well as market
structures within the plan for new infrastructure. In regard to institution
building, there are two major undertakings: (a) to convert BANAFOM into an
Agricultural Credit Bank; and (b) to strengthen the effectiveness of regional
offices of all institutions by providing them with greater local autonomy.
B. Banana and Plantain Development
1.21      Honduras is the fourth largest banana exporting country in the world,
contributing 10% to the international trade, although in the past (1971) it had
accounted for up to 16% of the world market. The U.S.A. is its biggest market,
taking about 80% of exports, while the other three important markets are
Germany, Belgium and Holland. Before Hurricane Fifi struck in 1974, banana
exports often contributed over 50% to the country's total export earnings.
The storm damage, however, cut this severely and Honduras has made serious
attempts to restore its productive capacity. As a result, export values have
increased over the last four years from US$107 million in 1976 to US$200
million for 1979.
1.22      Before Hurricane Fifi, there were 21,530 ha under banana cultivation,
but this was reduced to 14,570 ha by the hurricane. Part of the damaged areas
has already been rehabilitated and in 1978 the country had 17,100 ha under
banana cultivation. The Tela Railroad Co. (United Brands Co.) and Standard Fruit
Co. have some 9,500 ha under their direct management; associated farmers, who
market through the two foreign companies, have about 5,000 ha; and COHBANA has
some 2,600 ha. The national target is, not only to regain the 1974 level, but
also to expand to 24,000 ha, based on a yield of 1,977 box/ha (800 box/acre).
A feasibility study for banana plantations has been completed for some 2,000 ha
on the Ulua river and another study is available at the pre-feasibility
level for 2,700 ha in the Aguan valley. Considerable investments are required
in drainage and flood-protection works in order to minimize damage by tropical
storms and hurricanes which periodically affect these areas. The banana
industry employs some 10,000 workers who are becoming more insistent in their
wage demands. Also, input costs have risen recently, and there are uncertain-
ties concerning fiscal policy and taxes on banana exports that are limiting
the interest of large-scale private investors in plantation expansion.



1.23      Plantains in Honduras have been badly affected by the Black Sigatoka
disease (Mycosphaerella fijiensis var. difformis) which appeared in 1974
following Hurricane Fifi and has reduced exports to the USA to negligible
amounts. The recuperation of diseased stands of plantains is possible only if
disease control is practiced over the whole area. Therefore, MRN, with
financial support from the Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(BCIE), has recently initiated a disease control program for all the major
plantain areas of northern Honduras.
1.24      COHBANA, an autonomous state institution, was created in 1975 to
promote more favorable conditions for the development of bananas in Honduras
and to obtain an increasing national participation in the production, market-
ing and transport of bananas. The production expansion program is being
developed jointly with INA to combine this program with agrarian reform and
farmer settlements. To date it has been successful in rehabilitating three
plantation settlements: Isletas, Compania Bananera Hondurena S.A. (COBAHSA)
and Finca 3. COBRANA has an approved technical staff strength of 88 but there
are many vacancies; in addition, there are 19 persons who give technical
support to the Isletas plantation and 38 in administrative posts. The finan-
cial resources of COHBANA increased from US$2.7 million in 1975 to US$10.8
million in December 1978, but it had overall operating losses in three of its
four years of operations, principally because of 179% increases in costs and a
revenue increase of only 155%. The statutes of COBHANA state that the Govern-
ment will contribute an initial capital of US$50 million within a period of
four years; at appraisal the only contribution that had been made, however,
was a capital contribution of US$1.4 million in 1975 and this had been eroded
by losses to US$0.85 million by the end of 1978. The corporation's income
base is limited to a 5.5% surcharge on banana exports for technical assistance
and a commission of two points over the cost of the loans it administers which
are financed with funds borrowed from foreign commercial banks.
1.25      Government revenues from banana exports have increased dramatically
since 1974 when a US$0.50 tax per box was imposed; in 1973, banana export tax
revenues were US$0.40 million; in 1974, US$4.1 million and in 1978, US$18.0
million.
C. Forestry Development
1.26      Lumber and wood products have accounted for about 12% of the total
annual export value during 1973-77 (Annex 2, Table 2), over 98% of wood exports
going to markets in the Caribbean Islands, Europe and Latin America. Although
production of wood has remained fairly constant, internal consumption has
increased as shown below:



-8-
Production                              Apparent Internal
Millions of            Export              Consumption
Year          Board Feet (bf)         Million bf           Million bf
1974               285                   193                    92
1975               250                   192                    58
1976               247                   180                    67
1977               259                   189                    70
1978               261                   180                    81
1.27      In 1977 there were 118 sawmills operating with a toSal lumber
production of 259 million board feet, equivalent to 610,600 m . There were
also 58 secondary wood processing industries in Honduras, including pine
resination plants and two major companies that produced 13,000 m of plywood.
Present production methods are poor, however, with only 70% of wood cut
reaching the mills as a result of inefficient harvesting, transport diffi-
culties and antiquated production techniques at the mills, such as using
circular saws, which yield an output of sawn wood that is only one-third of
the wood input.
1.28      Although the potential for a vastly improved forest industry exists,
it faces many constraints, the most alarming one being the rapid depletion of
the resource itself as a result of widespread burning of forests as part of the
system of shifting agriculture. According to a recent forest inventory taken
by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), there was a 40% reduction of the iational forest
area in the 12-year period prior to 1978. Of about 6 million m of estim ted
annual incremental growth, the industry harvests only about 1.3 million m ,
whereas losses by forSst fires and illegal cutting for fuel are estimated to
be some 5.0 million m ; furthermore, excessive clearing of forests on steep
land and marginal soils is leading to increasingly serious soil erosion of the
catchment areas of the major river systems, including the Ulua, which drains
through the main banana and plantain areas of the north coast. Since the
creation of COHDEFOR, there has been a check on the rate at which forest
resources are being depleted, but the situation is still very serious.
1.29      A Forest Law was published in 1974 that created COHDEFOR and decreed
state ownership of all forest trees in the country, regardless of land owner-
ship. COHDEFOR's mandate is to generate funds for the nation through sound
economic forest development. It has the authority to use forests under any
system it chooses and, although it is obliged to pay private landowners a
stumpage value for trees, this value is determined by COHDEFOR and it is
currently insufficient to induce replanting. This is a basic issue which will
have to be addressed before any major improvement in the rate of replanting
can be expected. COHDEFOR can also undertake the industrialization of forest
products, often through state-owned companies or enterprises of mixed capital,
and it also handles all exporting and domestic wholesaling of forest products.
COHDEFOR is required to organize a Social Forest System by forming forest
worker associations and cooperatives for resin refining.
1.30      The current assets of COHDEFOR have increased from US$15.1 million
at the end of 1975 to US$37.4 million by October 1978 (these figures do not
include a valuation of all forest resources as they are state-owned);



-9-
furthermore, it has made a profit every year since it began operations (net
profits to October 31, 1978 were US$7.25 million). Other than the obliga-
tion to deliver US$2.5 million annually to the Government out of profits,
COHDEFOR can retain its earnings. Although COHDEFOR itself has a strong
financial position, some of the wood manufacturing companies it has set up
are in grave financial difficulties. However, given its financial base,
COHDEFOR has access to local financial sources for working capital and fixed
investments. Its present portfolio of US$10.25 million has a low delinquency
ratio of 2.2%. At the time of appraisal, COHDEFOR had not given any loans
for reforestation.
1.31      COHDEFOR's development strategy involves substantial investments
that could total US$75 million by 1983. The three main areas of activity
are:
(a) the Olancho Project that is intended to put a major forest area
under intensive production and reforestation;
(b) the Comayagua forest area development program designed to reduce
costs of lumber production and transportation; upgrade milling practices;
and expand employment opportunities in reforestation, forest fire protection
and resin production through rural cooperatives; and
(c) the expansion of the secondary wood industry sector by attracting
local and foreign participation in millwork and furniture and plywood
production.
1.32      It is estimated that in 1978, some 29,700 people worked in the forest
subsector, of whom 57% worked in manufacturing industries and 43% in silvi-
culture. COHDEFOR alone employs 1,650 people (a 57% increase over 1977 figures),
of which only 45 have university degrees. Although there is a forestry training
school at Siguatepeque and considerable technical assistance from international
and bilateral agencies is available, there is still, however, a continuing
shortage of experienced professionals to work in the forest subsector.
D. Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector
1.33      The first Livestock Development Project, with a total project
cost of US$5.2 million, of which US$2.6 was provided by IDA Credit 179-HO,
became effective in October 1970. Emphasis was placed on export diversifi-
cation through lending to medium- and large-size farms for beef, dairy dev-
elopment and supply of working capital for fattening operations. Technical
assistance was provided by a Project Unit set up within BCH. The overall
implementation of the project was satisfactory in view of the objectives
that had been originally set. However, Project Performance Audit Report
No. 1920 of February 21, 1978 drew attention to a number of issues in regard
to the first project, many of which had in fact already been taken into con-
sideration in the design of the next two projects (paras 1.34 and 1.35).
-1.34      The Second Livestock Development Project became effective in
January 1974. The total project cost was estimated at US$11.0 million,
of which US$6.6 million was provided by IDA Credit 434-HO. The project



- 10
was a continuation of the previous project, with the added goal of involving
more small- and medium-scale farmers. All funds are committed and total
disbursement of the Credit is expected by April 1980, including US$1 million
for a subloan approved for the rehabilitation of the Isletas Banana Cooperative,
severely damanged by Hurricane Fifi. Implementation of Credit 434-Ho is
considered to be satisfactory.
1.35      The first Agricultural Credit Project that became effective in
December 1976 envisaged a total project cost of US$28 million of which US$14
million was to be financed by IDA Credit 628-HO. The objectives of this pro-
ject were broader than those of the previous projects, and emphasis was placed
on making subloans available to the cropping subsector for on-farm investment,
agro-industries and heavy machinery, although subloans were also to be made
available for the livestock subsector. The project included US$6.7 million
for technical assistance and funds were also allocated to complete the rehab-
ilitation of the Isletas Banana Cooperative. The Project Unit is the same
as that for the previous two projects. The difficulty in recruiting suitable
expatriate technical personnel has resulted in a low rate of disbursement of
funds for technical assistance, but credit funds were fully committed at the
end of February 1980 because of the increased demand for agricultural lending
in the cropping subsector.
1.36      The Guayape Regional Development Project became effective in December
1978. It has a total project cost of US$14.6 million, of which US$10.5 million
are to be provided by Loan 1576-HO. The project finances on-farm investments,
small irrigation schemes, machinery pool services, rural road improvements,
extension services and agricultural research facilities for some 1,200 small-
scale farmers and 70 agrarian reform settlements (1,500 families). The project
became operational early in 1979.
1.37.     The Industrial Credit Project, which became effective in July 1979,
has a total project cost of US$28.4 million, of which US$15 million are to be
provided by Loan 1659-HO. The project is to establish the institutional capa-
city to select, appraise and finance industrial investment projects, parti-
cularly those of small- and medium-scale manufacturing firms in the wood
industry, and is being undertaken by a specialized Project Unit called the
National Industrial Development Fund established in BCH.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. Role in the Agricultural Sector
2.01      The agricultural sector is financed by both institutional and non-
institutional sources, and, although no reliable information is available
about the latter source, estimates suggest that nearly 80% of small-scale
farmers depend on private moneylenders and pay usurious rates of interest.
Institutional credit is supplied mainly by the banking system and, to a
smaller extent (about US$2.5 million annually), by cooperatives and private
agencies, the most important of which are the Honduran Development Foundation,
the Federation of Savings and Loan Associations and the National Association
of Campesinos.



- 11 -
2.02      The banking system in Honduras consists of BCH, 13 private commer-
cial banks, three public sector development institutions and six specialized
credit institutions. The consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 1979 of
the entire banking system, excluding BCH, are summarized in Annex 2, Table 5.
The commercial banks accounted for 91% of the deposits mobilized and 74% of
the loans provided by the banking system. Total credit rose from US$374 mil-
lion in 1976 to US$517 million in 1978, an increase of 38% over the period.
2.03      During 1976-78, the total volume of agricultural credit rose from
US$116 million to US$152 million, an increase of 31%. The proportion of
agricultural credit provided by commercial banks also rose slightly, from
14.6% in 1976 to 15.9% in 1978. Their outstanding loans for agricultural
credit increased from US$55 million in 1976 to US$83 million in 1978, a 50%
rise. During that year, their lending for export crops increased by 95%,
for basic grains by 71%, and for livestock by 8%.
2.04      There is a problem of loan guarantees for small-scale farmers that
BCH hopes to resolve by changing the bank law with regard to loan collateral
and guarantees. The initial reluctance of the banking sector to continue
agricultural lending after the passing of the law that empowered INA to pay
compensation for expropriated land with bonds that carried low rates of in-
terest and lacked marketability was overcome in the case of IDA-financed
agricultural projects (paras 1.33 to 1.35) when BCH agreed to buy back
these bonds from the banks.
B. Public Credit Policy
2.05      BCH, as the monetary authority, determines the credit policy and
regulates the flow of credit to the economy by: (a) fixing minimum legal
reserve requirements on deposits; (b) determining rediscount rates; (c) set-
ting maximum interest rates for lending and deposits; (d) fixing portfolio
limits; (e) determining limits for external debts; (f) conducting open market
operations; and (g) setting exchange rates.
2.06      BCH is also the regulatory body for the banking system, exercising
this function through the Office of the Superintendent of Banks, an official
appointed by the Board of BCH. At present, the Superintendency of Banks also
undertakes external audits of projects financed by international banks or
through multi- or bilateral aid programs; however, this task may be delegated
to an independent firm of auditors in the future.
2.07      Banks in Honduras are required to maintain 35% liquidity (either in
cash or Government bonds) against their domestic liabilities and 45% against
foreign liabilities. To channel money for productive activities, the BCH has
set a limit of 25% as the maximum share of domestic trade and consumption in
the loanable funds of commercial and development banks. Every year BCH
fixes the limit for rediscounting facilities, which from the end of 1978,
was US$74 million. From September 1979, the rediscounting rate for agricul-
ture has varied from 5% to 6% and was generally provided for 12 months



- 12 -
unless there were exceptional circumstances. Deposit rates for banks fixed by
BCH currently range from 7% to 8.5% and lending rates for loans exceeding
US$1,250, are 11% for agricultural production, services, transport and commu-
nication and a maximum rate of 16% for trade and consumption.
2.08      BCH may borrow funds and act as fiscal agent for Government, as it
has for past projects IDA has financed and would do for the proposed project.
The PU set up in BCH for the management of the IDA projects is attached to
the Credit and Investment Department. The PU would also manage the proposed
project.
C. Credit Institutions
2.09      Out of the 13 commercial banks, six participated in the First
Livestock Project (Credit 179-HO) and nine in both the Second Livestock
Project (Credit 434-HO) and the Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 628-HO).
Factors that helped maintain the interest of commercial banks in IDA projects
have been the attractive financial conditions, the land bond guarantee (para
2.04) and the effective technical assistance provided by the PU.
2.10      BANAFOM, the state development bank, founded in 1950, provides the
major portion of the institutional finance for agriculture. It has by far
the largest participation in small-scale farmer credit both within and outside
the land reform sector. Its head office is in Tegucigalpa and it has 28
banking outlets throughout the country and a staff of some 1,000. The Board
of Directors consists of its President; the Ministers of Natural Resources,
Finance and Communications; and representatives from the BCH and the private
banking sector, as well as five other members representing various groups of
economic interests.
2.11      The institution became involved over the years in an excessive
number of functional activities, many of which were not directly related to
banking, but contributed to its operational losses and made it difficult for
management to carry out an effective job of banking. Government therefore
decided to divest BANAFOM of its non-banking functions and to transform it
into an agricultural development bank. Accordingly, by the end of 1978,
BANAFOM had been relieved of the following activities: marketing and storing
of grains, industrial sector financing and coffee development programs. Also
under consideration for divestment are the sale of popular consumer goods and
the section responsible for marketing farm inputs. Consultants financed by
USAID began work in May 1979 to assist in the reorganization of BANAFOM. The
areas of reorganization are institutional reform; livestock, crop and coopera-
tive credit; data processing; organization and banking services; resource
mobilization; financial management; accounting; and systems and procedures.
2.12      The Government has had to make substantial contributions to BANAFOM
over the years to keep it in operation. Although the overall resources of
BANAFOM were increased during 1974-78 from US$86 million to US$100 million,
net equity declined from US$22 million to US$14 million, mainly because of



- 13 -
losses incurred in non-banking operations and development financing. Alter-
native means of handling development finance, such as establishing trusteeship
funds, the interests from which would not be charged to commercial banking
operations, are being considered. Because of the slow growth in deposits,
BANAFOM has been mainly dependent on external borrowing for its lending
operations. Loans and discounts contributed about 60% of the total assets as
of December 31, 1978. Interest rates on advances and rediscounts with BCH
fluctuate between 3% and 8% per annum, while commercial foreign bank credits
charge between 8% and 15% per annum, depending on the current level of LIBOR
rates; BANAFOM's financing of borrowing is therefore very costly. Long-term
borrowings totaled US$29.2 million as of December 31, 1978, with interest
rates varying considerably according to the lender from 1.5% on some IDB loans
to 9% on commercial bank loans.
2.13      Agricultural loans are granted to individuals, groups of farmers
and agencies such as the Honduran Development Foundation for on-lending to
their members. In 1972, BANAFOM arranged credit for settlement of previously
landless peasants who had few resources of their own. Since then BANAFOM's
involvement in small-scale farmer credit has increased and, during 1978, there
was an increase of 16% in the number of loans and 7% in the value of lending
to this category of borrower.
2.14      Production loans are granted for periods of up to 18 months and
are secured by chattel mortgage, land title or a guarantee. In addition,
the joint and several signatures of members are required. Farm development
loans are usually granted for up to seven years (this restriction was removed
for ongoing IDA projects) against chattel mortgage and up to 25 years against
a mortgage of fixed assets. Borrowers are required to contribute 20% to the
development cost, but this requirement is reduced to 10% in the case of
small-scale farmers and can be completely waived for asentamientos when
appropriate. Loans can be disbursed in cash or kind or against approved
purchase orders; production loans are usually disbursed in installments. No
penalty is levied on overdue loans, but overdue interest is capitalized.
2.15      BANAFOM's loan portfolio consisted of 41,951 loans at the end of
1978, a 12% decrease from 1977 figures although the number of small-scale
farmers increased. The collection ratio for 1978 was only 38%, while overdue
loans in relation to the portfolio was 33.6%. BANAFOM is reluctant to condone
any of its delinquent, small-scale farmer loans by writing them off to the
reserve. It plans to cease sales of consumer items and agricultural inputs
and to create a trust fund department to avoid draining capital from its
commercial banking operations and to complete an internal reorganization which
should make it the agricultural credit bank that Honduras requires.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
Project Identification and Preparation
3.01      The Government of Honduras has requested the World Bank Group to
continue to help financing medium- and long-term investments in the agricul-
tural sector. The proposed project would be the fourth in a series of projects
administered by a Project Unit (PU) established for this purpose in the Central
Bank of Honduras (BCH). In addition, the Government has requested assistance
in the development of a pilot-scale reforestation scheme.
3.02      The feasibility study for the proposed project was prepared by the
PU on the basis of preparatory work by a mission of the FAO/Bank Cooperative
Programme that visited Honduras in September/October 1978. COHBANA prepared
the banana component in November 1978, assisted by a civil engineer from FAO,
while the forestry component was identified in 1978 in the course of the
preparation of the integrated rural development project for the western high-
lands known as PRODERO, which is to receive financial assistance from IFAD.
Project Formulation
3.03      The proposed project is similar to that outlined in the feasibility
study presented to the appraisal mission on its arrival in Honduras. The main
difference is that a component for small irrigation schemes of some 150 ha each
has been excluded because of insufficient technical preparation and the lack
of an adequate national water policy. A list of studies and working papers
related to the proposed project is given in Annex 3.
General Project Objectives
3.04      The project would assist national programs of agricultural develop-
ment and agrarian reform, principally by: (a) expanding the area under food
crops and for livestock production to provide more adequate nutrition for the
national population; (b) improving the contribution of the agricultural sector
to export earnings and import substitution; (c) increasing employment oppor-
tunities and improving family incomes on farms and in industries associated
with the transformation of agricultural products; and (d) supporting selected
institutions for further planning and development of the agricultural sector
and for the conservation of natural resources.
B. Brief Description
3.05      The project would comprise the following main components to be
carried out over four years:



- 15 -
(a)  a nationwide I/ agricultural credit program to finance lending
through the national banking network for (i) crop and livestock
investment plans: (ii) agricultural machinery for contractors; and
(iii) abattoirs for small municipalities;
(b)  a pilot forestry program in western Honduras;
(c)  studies of (i) groundwater resources in valleys of high agricultural
potential, but with limited seasonal river flows; (ii) the use of
waste bananas and plantains and sub-products for animal feed;
and (iii) the organization and management structure of COHBANA.
(d)  training for staff of COHBANA, COHDEFOR and the PU; and
(e)  incremental expenditures for the PU including the provision of
consultant services, vehicles and equipment.
3.06      Special attention would be given to farm development by cooperatives
growing sugar, rice, bananas and plantains and breeding dual-purpose cattle
(para 1.13), but all farmers would be eligible to apply for investment credit.
The construction or rehabilitation of municipal abattoirs would be included
to improve the hygienic condition of meat on the domestic market and to make
full use of by-products. Machinery contractors would be assisted to purchase
heavy equipment required for drilling boreholes for water, land clearing and
drainage. The pilot scheme for reforestation would establish the basis for
a possible major forestry program in the future. Over half of the agricul-
tural credit program of the proposed project would be for small-scale farmers,
including members of agrarian reform cooperative societies (para 3.23), and
this group would probably make up more than three-quarters of the beneficia-
ries of the project.
3.07      BCH would be the principal executing agency, operating through the
PU, already established to carry out projects financed in part by IDA Credits
179-HO, 434-HO and 628-HO. BCH would make medium- and long-term subloans for
agricultural development through public and private financial intermediaries.
Public corporations would carry out the banana (COHBANA), plantain (COHBANA
with MRN) and forestry (COHDEFOR) components under project administration con-
tracts with BCH (para 4.10).
C. Detailed Features
Lending Program for Agricultural Development
3.08      Investment for the development of all forms of agriculture would
be financed through subloans to be committed over four years by financial
intermediaries to individual investors and to groups of small-scale farmers
associated in cooperatives or other combinations. A summary of the proposed
lending program is as follows:
1/   For the Guayape Valley, limitations have been introduced to avoid any
overlap with the potential beneficiaries of Loan 1576-HO (para 4.14).



- 16 -
Average Cash
Value      Total
Invest-           Cash
Number of Investment Plans       ment             Invest-
Project Year              1     2      3   4   Total      Plan  Subloan   ment
Small-scale farmers
Sugarcane               9    15      6         30        83       83    2,490
Rice                    3      6     8         17        77       77    1,309
Banana                  2      2      1         5    1,020   1,020    5,100
Plantain              137   138               275         7        7    1,925
Dual-purpose cattle   38    40    40          118        29       29    3,422
Sub-Total          189   201    55         445        32      32   14,246
Other investors
Sugarcane               7    10      3         20        89       71    1,780
Rice                    3      6     7         16        79       63    1,264
Dual-purpose cattle   60    58    58          176        30       24    5,280
Municipal abattoirs    1       2      1         4       250      200    1,000
Other agricultural
investments,
including con-
tractors             10    10    10   9    39         100      80    3,930
Sub-Total         81    86    79   9   255         52       42   13,254
TOTAL            270   287   134   9   700         39       -    17,500
3.09      The principal crops to be financed are expected to be sugarcane
(5,000 ha), irrigated rice (1,650 ha), plantains (1,375 ha) and bananas
(1,000 ha). In addition, small areas of various perennial tree crops would be
developed, including cacao, citrus and coconuts. Subloans would also be made
to clear and prepare land for seasonal dryland crops such as soybeans and corn
and to finance investments for crop storage installations on farms and
the purchase by contractors of heavy farm equipment.
3.10      The predominant livestock activity to be financed would be dual-
purpose (beef-dairy) cattle farming, although investments in other lines of
activity would be eligible, provided the investment plan was supported by a
technical and market analysis acceptable to the PU. About 300 dual-purpose
schemes are projected to be financed, of which about 40% are expected to be on
farms of cooperatives. Most of the cooperative farms are likely to be in the
Aguan valley, where both crop (oil palm) and livestock development is being
promoted by INA on large areas of cooperatively managed land.
3.11      About four municipal abattoirs would be improved or rebuilt to
raise the quality of meat offered on the local markets, to make fuller use
of sub-products, and to reduce pollution in nearby streams.



- 17 -
Forestry Development
3.12      The purpose of the forestry component would be to develop, on a
pilot scale, the organization and management systems necessary to initiate
a major national reforestation program which would be principally on state-
owned land of which there are considerable areas available for planting. This
pilot phase would be in western Honduras, associated with the PRODERO regional
development program, and it would consist of the following elements to be
completed in four years:
(a)  the establishment of a nursery for the annual production of
1.8 million pine seedlings for the reforestation program and two
nurseries for the annual production of 800,000 broadleaf seedlings
for firewood in the area near Belen (Map IBRD 14339); this program
would require three pickups and two trucks as well as nursery
equipment;
(b)  a reforestation program of 4,000 ha of pine (Pinus oocarpa) for
timber production on state-owned land; this project would finance
3,500 ha as 500 ha have already been planted;
(c)  development of a forest fire protection system to cover pasrt of
the PRODERO region, including the project area; the service would
require a tanker-truck and fire-fighting equipment;
(d)  the formation of a forest management unit for the existing
forests in the project area; the unit would be located in
Santa Rosa de Copan and would consist of a forest manager,
three foresters, four rangers, a draftsman and two supporting
staff. This unit would be provided with an office, equipment
and furniture and two vehicles; and
(e)  internationally recruited consultant services for a total of
12 man-months at a gross cost of US$8,250 per man-month, and
24 man-months of training would be provided for staff of COHDEFOR
at an average gross cost of US$2,200 per man-month (para 4.08).
Studies and Training
3.13      Studies for Water Resources and Agricultural Development.  Studies
would be carried out, over a period of two years commencing in 1980, of the
water resources and appropriate development strategy for a valley of high
agricultural potential. The study would be supervised by the Water Resources
Unit of MRN. The purposes of the study of the valley would include the
following:
(a) preparation of an assessment of the groundwater resources;
(b) establishment of guidelines for the rational exploitation
of the valley;



- 18 -
(c) preparation, to the feasibility level, of a drainage
plan; and
(d) identification of areas of the valley suitable for irri-
gated agriculture.
Outline terms of reference for such a study are given in Annex 1. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained that, no later than September 1, 1980,
the Government would submit its detailed proposals to the Bank.
3.14      Banana and Plantain By-products.  Studies would be carried out under
the supervision of COHBANA, over a period of three years commencing in 1980,
on the use for animal feeding of rejected and surplus fruit, and leaves and
pseudostems of bananas and plantains. The research and development program
would include the preparation of silage and dry meals from the raw products
and the fermentation of fruit pulp with yeasts and other single-cell organisms
to increase the protein content of the final product. These studies would
form part of the collaborative program of banana research being coordinated by
the Union of Banana Exporting Countries. The work to be carried out would be
in accordance with a program and specifications to be previously approved by
the Bank. 1/
3.15      COHBANA, Management Studies and Training.  Internationally recruited
consultants would be engaged by COHBANA to examine the present structure and
management system of the institution and to make recommendations for strength-
ening its management, administration, accounting, financial and technical
capacity. Funds would be provided to finance 41 man-months of consultant
services at an average gross cost of US$8,030 per man-month. Funds would
also be provided to finance 24 man-months of training for COHBANA staff in
management, accounting, financial and technical matters.
Project Unit
3.16      The existing PU would be maintained at least until the delivery
to the Bank of a project completion report (para. 4.27) and financed from
recoveries made by BCH from subsidiary loans made under the provisions of
Development Credit Agreements 179-HO, 434-HO, and 628-HO. The proposed
project would provide a senior professional to be posted to a new regional
office of BCH, probably at Danli, and three professional staff to strengthen
the regional offices in La Ceiba and San Pedro Sula and the central office in
Tegucigalpa. The new staff would include specialists in crops such as cacao,
citrus and sugarcane. Provision would also be made for a total of eight
man-months of training for PU staff at an average gross cost of US$2,200 per
man-month (para 4.08).
3.17      The current consultancy service agreement with the regional organiza-
tion, CATIE, extends to the end of June 1981. The proposed project would
provide for a similar long-term agreement for three full-time experts (probably
1/   References to the Bank or loan apply equally to IDA or credit, where
appropriate.



- 19 -
in the fileds of animal production, pasture management and farm economics) for
a duration of two years, at an estimated gross cost equivalent to US$4,675 per
man-month for a total of 72 man-months. In addition, eight man-months of
short-term, internationally recruited consultant services, at an estimated
gross cost equivalent to US$7,700 per man-month, would be budgeted for crop
specialists.
3.18      A total of 13 vehicles would be purchased for use by the PU staff--
six in the first project year, one in the second and six in the fourth.
Office equipment and furniture for the new regional office would also be
financed under the proposed project.
3.19      Two trainees to work with each expert would be provided by MRN, INA
and participating banks (PBs) (para 4.04) for about six months on a full-time
basis with the three long-term consultants (para 3.17). Subsistence and
travel expenses for the trainees (36 man-months/year) have been included in
the budget for the proposed project, but all their other expenditures would
be borne by their respective employers. Subsistence expenses for the four
additional staff of the PU and the operating and maintenance expenses for
seven vehicles 1/ have been included in the project costs, and resources have
been allocated for farm demonstrations and field days to be organized by the
PU. Further particulars are given in Annex 2, Table 6.
D. Project Cost
3.20      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$38.5 mil-
lion adjusted to December 1979 prices (which includes no significant local tax
(para 3.25)) of which about US$19.3 million, or 50%, represents the foreign
exchange requirements. Price contingencies on the foreign exchange element
were calculated assuming that commitments would begin in January 1980 (para
3.21) and that annual international price increases would be 10.5% in 1980,
9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and thereafter 7% per annum until 1985. For local
costs, it was assumed that domestic price inflation would be 8% per annum.
Cost estimates, based on representative enterprise investment models described
in Chapter V, are summarized in the following table. These cash costs exclude
(a) an estimated US$1.5 million of family labor and inputs in kind to be con-
tributed by smallscale farmers; and (b) the operational costs of the existing
PU, which would be financed by funds recovered by BCH from the lending programs,
partially financed by Credits 179-HO, 434-HO and 628-HO. The phasing of the
lending program and project costs and the cash flow for BCH are given in Annex
2, Tables 7 to 9. The average gross costs per man-month of internationally
recruited consultant services are estimated at US$8,030 for 61 man-months
of short-term assigiiments and US$4,675 for 72 man-months of long-term assign-
ments, giving a weighted average of about US$6,200 per man-month for 133
man-months of consultant services. Training costs are based on US$2,200 per
man-month for a total of 56 man-months.
1/   The other six new vehicles would be to replace existing vehicles of the
PU.



- 20 -
Foreign Baseline
Project Components           Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Cost
-----(L million)-----  ----(US$ million)----         %        7
Agricultural Development
Small-scale farmers          14.6    13.8    28.4    7.3       6.9    14.2       48       42
Other investors              14.0    12.6    26.6    7.0        6.3    13.3      48       40
Forestry Development          2.6      1.0     3.6    1.3      0.5      1.8      30         6
Studies and Training          1.2      5.0     6.2    0.6      2.5      3.1      80         9
Project Unit                  1.0      1.2     2.2    0.5      0.6      1.1      52        3
Baseline Total               33.4    33.6    67.0   16.7    16.8    33.5         50      100
Price Contingencies           5.0     5.0    10.0    2.5       2.5      5.0      50       15
Total Project Cost           38.4    38.6    77.0   19.2    19.3    38.5         50      115
Note: Figures in this table have been rounded.
E. Financing
3.21      The proposed IDA credit in various currencies equivalent to US$5
million and Bank loan in various currencies equivalent to US$20 million would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the project (50%) and US$5.7 million of
local costs, which are justified on country economic grounds, and, thus, 65%
of the total project cost. Sub-borrowers would finance US$3.3 million,
or 9% of total project cash cost. As shown below, it is estimated that US$4.3
million (11%) would be contributed by Government and BCH, US$3.9 million (10%)
would come from the participating banks, and US$2.0 million (5%) would come
from the national corporations, COHBANA and COHDEFOR.



- 21 -
Participating
Institutions                                  Total
Project                   Public    Government/  Bank/         Cash
Project Components       Beneficiaries  Banks    Corporations    BCH            IDA      Investments
US$ M   %    US$ M  %   US$ M  %    US$ M  %  US$ M  %   US$ M   %
Agricultural Development
Small-scale farmers           /a    0       1.1  7.5   1.0  7.5    1.1   8  11.0  77   14.2  100
Other investors              2.7   20       2.1 16.0                 1.1   8   7.4  56   13.3  100
2.7   10      3.2 12.0   1.0  4        2.2   8  18.4  66   27.5  100
Forestry Development           -    -         -    -   0.6 33          -   -   1.2  67    1.8  100
Studies and Training           -    -         -    -   0.1  4        0.9  29   2.1  67    3.1  100
Project Unit                  _     _         -   _       -  -       0.4  33   0.7  67    1.1  100
Baseline total               2.7    8       3.2   10   1.7  5        3.5  11  22.4  66   33.5  100
Price
contingencies              0.6           0.7         0.3          0.8         2.6         5.0
Total project cost           3.3    9       3.9   10   2.0  5        4.3  11  25.0  65   38.5  100
/a   Investment plans would include about USS1.5 million family labor and
contributions in kind.
3.22      Participating banks would also provide the complementary funds
necessary to finance the lending program and supporting services and such
short-term funds, estimated at US$0.7 million, as may be required by project
beneficiaries to complete their investment plans (para 4.11).
3.23      The lending program would be financed in the proportions shown
below.
Total
Participating                     Bank/       Credit
Institutions        BCH            IDA        Program
US$ M   %      US$ M   %    US$M   %    US$ M   %
Lending Program for
Agricultural Development
Small-scale farmers               2.1   15       1.1    8    11.0   77    14.2  100
Other investors                   2.1   20       1.1   10      7.4   70    10.6  100
Baseline total                      4.2   17       2.2    9    18.4   74    24.8  100



- 22 -
3.24      The Bank loan would be made to the Republic of Honduras at the
Bank lending rate prevailing when the loan and credit documents are circulated
to the Board, for a term of 20 years, including approximately five years of
grace.l/  The credit would be provided on standard IDA terms.  The Bank loan and
IDA credit would be channeled by the Government through BCH under subsidiary
agreements (para 4.09). The foreign exchange risk on the servicing of the loan
and credit would be borne by:
(a) BCH in respect of amounts withdrawn for the lending program
and for the expenses of the PU and training, except for the
training of COHDEFOR staff; and
(b) the Government in respect of amounts withdrawn for the components
for forestry and studies.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that financing would be as specified
in this and the preceding paragraphs.
F. Procurement
3.25      The on-farm investment items to be financed for approximately 700
subloans throughout Honduras over the four-year investment period would be
varied and not suitable for procurement through international competitive
bidding; therefore, sub-borrowers would purchase their requirements through
regular commercial channels. Wherever an individual order for goods, works
or services (other than consultant services) to be procured was expected to
exceed US$50,000, price quotations would be obtained from at least three
suppliers and confirmation of the order would require the prior approval of
the institution making the subloan. Foreign firms are adequately represented
in Honduras and there is a good network of competitive suppliers of agricul-
tural inputs. Facilities for maintenance of machinery and equipment are
adequate. All inputs, machinery and equipment for the proposed investments
are exempt from import duties and there are no import restrictions that could
affect purchases through existing local channels. Farming inputs, machinery
and equipment are also exempt from the current 3% sales tax.
3.26      Civil works for the banana and plantain areas (US$1.6 million)
and forestry development would be carried out through force account by COHBANA,
MRN or COHDEFOR as appropriate, or through locally advertised competitive
bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. The remaining expendi-
tures for these components of the project are not suitable for competitive
bidding.
3.27      Vehicles and equipment, estimated to total US$200,000, would be
procured by the PU and COHDEFOR over four years through local competitive
procedures. The Bank would review invitations to bid, proposed awards and
final contracts for goods and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$75,000 or more for:
1/   Four years and 10 months, assuming the legal documents are signed
in April 1980.



- 23 -
(a) flood protection and land drainage for banana and plantain
development;
(b) the forestry component; and
(c) the PU.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement procedures
outlined in this and the preceding paragraphs would be followed.
G. Disbursement
3.28      The Bank Group would disburse over a period of five years:
(a)  77% of amounts previously disbursed by PBs for subloans for
agricultural developments by small-scale farmers for (i) a
total value of US$4.0 million for banana and plantain devel-
opments; and (ii) a total value of US$5.5 million for other
developments;
(b)  77% of expenditures for engineering studies, civil works for
flood control and drainage, and common services for banana
and plantain development for a total value of US$1.5 million;
(c)  70% of amounts previously disbursed by PBs for subloans made
to sub-borrowers other than small-scale farmers, for a total
value of US$7.5 million;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported and 67%
of local expenditures for locally procured vehicles and equip-
ment, for a total value of US$167,000;
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported and 67%
of local expenditures for locally procured materials and ser-
vices, including salaries, for a total value of US$1,241,000;
(f)  100% of total expenditures for consultant services for a
total value of US$460,000;
(g)  100% of foreign expenditures and 67% of local expenditures
for training, for a total value of US$200,000.
(h)  100% of foreign expenditures and 67% of local expenditures
for studies, for a total value of US$1,800,000.
The US$2,632,000 price contingencies to be financed by the Bank would
initially be unallocated in the Bank loan.
3.29      Disbursements under the loan would not take place until the credit
had been fully disbursed or specially committed.



- 24 -
3.30      Retroactive financing is recommended for payments made before the
date of the Loan and Project Agreements, but after January 1, 1980, for an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 for the establishment
of a forest nursery early in the year to produce tree seedlings in time for
the 1980 planting season.
3.31      It would be a condition of disbursement that the respective partici-
pating entity had entered into a project administration contract with BCH
(para 4.10). Conditions of disbursement for engineering studies, civil works
and common services for banana and plantain development are given in paragraph
4.07.
3.32      Disbursements for the lending program would be made against certifi-
cates of expenditure, the documentation for which would be retained by the
PU, COHBANA and COHDEFOR and made available to the Bank and external auditors
for inspection during the course of project supervision and audit inspections.
All other disbursements would be supported by standard documentation. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that disbursements would be made in
accordance with this and the preceding paragraph.
3.33      The estimated schedule of disbursements by the Bank Group is given
below, assuming that the date of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit
would be no later than July 31, 1980. 1/ The estimated date of project comple-
tion would be December 31, 1984 and the estimated closing date would be June 30,
1985.
Bank/IDA
Fiscal Year                  Disbursed
and Semester              During Semester    Cumulative
---------US$ million---------
1981   1                     0.8                0.8
2                     1.0                1.8
1982   1                     3.0                4.8
2                     3.8                8.6
1983   1                     3.9               12.5
2                     4.0               16.5
1984   1                     3.0               19.5
2                     2.5               22.0
1985   1                     2.0               24.0
2                     1.0               25.0
1/   This assumption is based on Board presentation in April 1980.  The project
completion date would remain unchanged if retroactive financing was
approved from January 1, 1980 for forest nursery works (para 3.30).



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Project Executive Committee
4.01      A Project Executive Committee would be formed, under the chairman-
ship of the BCH, which would include senior permanent representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, MRN, INA, COHBANA, COHDEFOR, BANAFOM
and the bankers' association. This committee would be responsible for coordi-
nating the activities of the proposed project at national and regional levels
with all participating institutions and public agencies in order to ensure the
proper integration of such activities. It would meet regularly to monitor and
coordinate the efforts of these institutions to carry out project programs and
to review programs, budgets, progress and annual evaluation reports of the PU
and reports of the external auditors (para 4.23). In matters of modifications
to or deviations from national policy and project objectives, or in cases of
issues arising from project implementation which may affect national agricul-
tural policy, it would report such matters to the CPA for appropriate resolu-
tion. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that a Project Executive
Committee would be established no later than September 1, 1980 and maintained.
Project Unit
4.02      The PU would have overall responsibility for administering the
project and specific responsibility for directing the agricultural credit
operations. It would supervise the execution of the banana and plantain and
forestry components of the project, although they would be carried out by
COHBANA/MRN and COHDEFOR, respectively. The PU would assist institutions in
the design and implementation of agricultural development credit programs at
both national and regional levels and establish and disseminate technical
standards and operational procedures for the preparation, assessment, control,
servicing and evaluation of farm and agricultural investment plans. Other
responsibilities would be to develop, in collaboration with participating
institutions, a technical training policy and to assist in the preparation and
delivery of technical training courses for the staff of participating institu-
tions. In addition, the PU would advise participating institutions on how to
improve their organizational and management procedures relevant to the execu-
tion of the project. It would also supervise and assess the performance of
participating institutions in carrying out all their obligations under their
respective project administration contracts (para 4.10) and regularly verify
that, commencing December 31, 1980 and thereafter during the life of the
project, not less than 50% of the aggregate value of subloans approved by all
participating banks went to small-scale farmers who met the criteria specified
for the project (para 4.14).
4.03      The PU, headed by a full-time Project Director assisted by a Sub-
Director, would coordinate the proposed project giving financial direction,
selecting banks to participate in the project (para 4.04), approving project
schedules, and evaluating and reporting on project performance. The authority
and responsibilities of the Project Director are specified more fully in
Annex 1; assurances that the PU and Director would perform these duties were
obtained at negotiations.



26
Participating Banks (PB)
4.04      The eligibility of financial institutions wishing to participate in
the project and the degree of delegation of subloan approval to them would be
determined by the Project Director using criteria including the following:
(a) satisfactory experience and evidence of good performance in
agricultural lending;
(b) adequate financial condition and management, including acceptable
evidence of compliance with the accounting and auditing require-
ments established by law;
(c) adequate managerial, administrative and technical capabilities at
national, regional and agency levels;
(d) adequate technical staff in terms of number, experience and
qualifications to be assigned to project activities; and
(e) adequate network of branch offices or agencies.
Upon selection, each PB would be required to sign a project administration
contract with BCH, satisfactory to the Bank, after which it would be entitled
to utilize the funds provided by BCH for subloans to farmers; or to contractors
for the purchase of heavy farm machinery. It would be a condition of effec-
tiveness that at least one project administration contract with a PB had
been executed.
4.05      BANAFOM would be a key PB since it is the only bank specializing
in serving small-scale farmers. BANAFOM would forward to the Bank for consid-
eration as soon as possible a draft statement of a new farm loan policy in
respect of the proposed project and details of changes in its general loan
policies. It would likewise forward to the Bank copies of feasibility studies,
implementation programs and time schedules, as well as copies of progress and
evaluation reports prepared by the consultants (para 2.11). During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Bank would be informed of the (a)
progress of the reorganization of BANAFOM and provided with an opportunity to
comment on a draft statement of new farm loan policy; (b) proposed quasi-
reorganization for the management of the loan portfolios and the writing-off
of related loan losses; (c) the plan for regional organization and management
and the coordination policy and mechanisms to be established between BANAFOM,
MRN and INA, particularly at regional levels; and (d) the proposed accounting
system for its proposed division for trusteeship funds. It would be a con-
dition of effectiveness that the Government had taken all measures, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, to establish the legal framework that will transform BANAFOM
into an agricultural development bank and enable it to take all actions referred
to in this paragraph.
B. Operation and Maintenance and Land Acquisition
4.06      Operation and maintenance of the drainage canals in the banana and
plantain plantations in the Ulua valley would be undertaken by an Administra-
tion Unit to be formed jointly by COHBANA and MNR for the development of



- 27 -
banana and plantain (para 5.06). An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that a Banana and Plantain Development Administration Unit would be formed no
later than September 1, 1980, which was satisfactory to the Bank. An estimate
of this cost has been included in the operating cost of the illustrative
investment models (para 5.06). It would be a condition of disbursement for
the relevant category that detailed engineering studies for flood control and
drainage works for the first year of investments had been completed for the
proposed banana and plantain development in the Ulua valley. Operations and
maintenance for the forestry component would be undertaken by COHDEFOR; the first
four years of operations have been included as a project cost (para 3.12(d)).
4.07      The land for the banana and plantain component is state-owned.  It
has been occupied by squatters since the banana companies withdrew from the
area in the late 1950s when they decided to replant elsewhere with new
varieties. The squatters are mostly subsistence farmers, many of whom were
formerly employed by the banana companies and are familiar with banana produc-
tion techniques. The status of these squatters would be regularized as they
are all incorporated into the banana and plantain developments. The banana
plantations are to be organized into cooperatives under the supervision of
COHBANA as they can be managed economically only in blocks, but the plantain
growers would be left to operate as individual farmers who would own their
land individually because the need for block-cultivation is not as essential
for plantains as for banana cultivation. It would be a condition of disburse-
ment for civil engineering works for flood control and drainage that confirm-
ation of interest of local residents in the proposed works, satisfactory to
the Bank, had been obtained by the Government and the Bank had received a
satisfactory program for the formation of farmer groups and a satisfactory
proposal for the recovery from project beneficiaries of expenditures to be
made for flood control and drainage (para 6.18). Some of the land for the
pine plantation under the pilot forest component is state-owned and unoccu-
pied, although it does provide seasonal grazing for cattle from nearby small-
scale farms. The strategy would be to improve pastures on the individual
farms through the implementation of the IFAD-financed PRODERO project and then
exclude cattle from the areas to be planted with pines (para 3.02).
C. Training
4.08      Training would be provided under the project to various entities.
CORBANA technicians would be trained in project management and accounting as
well as in fields related to banana production; 24 man-months of training have
been budgeted (para 3.15). COHDEFOR technicians would be trained in fields
related to forest management; 24 man-months of training have been budgeted
(para 3.12(e)). Project Unit staff would be eligible for training either in
management-related fields or specific cropping or animal husbandry fields;
eight man-months have been budgeted (para 3.16). All training programs would
be subject to Bank approval. Under the first Agricultural Credit Project
funds were provided for a consultancy service to mid-1981 with CATIE (para
3.17) to undertake investigation in the areas of animal production, pasture
management and farm economics. Under the proposed project a similar service
would be financed for two more years, but the three CATIE experts would
concentrate their efforts on training staff of both public institutions and
commercial banks (para 3.19). It would be a condition of effectiveness that
the Bank had approved the training programs for COHDEFOR, COHBANA and the PU.



- 28 -
D. Lending Policies and Procedures
Subsidiary Agreement
4.09      The Government would transmit the proceeds of the proposed loan to
BCH through a subsidiary agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan and
the IDA credit through a subsidiary agreement for 20 years, including 10 years
of grace, at an interest rate of 2% per annum; however, funds for forestry
development would be channeled to COHDEFOR by the Government through BCH for
30 years, including 10 years of grace, and in other respects on standard IDA
terms (para 3.24). The subsidiary agreements between the Government and BCH
would include covenants that BCH would (a) maintain the revolving fund created
in 1973 to facilitate the lending operations financed by IDA credits; (b)
maintain adequate rediscount facilities for short-term finance to be provided
by PBs in association with investment subloans (para 3.22); and (c) make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of imported goods financed out of the
credit and loan. An assurance on this was obtained at negotiations.
Project Administration Loans and Contracts
4.10      Loans made by BCH to PBs and to COHBANA would be governed by the
conditions set out in the respective project administration contracts. These
loans would be denominated in lempiras to finance 85% of subloans granted to
small-scale farmers and 80% of subloans to other sub-borrowers. In order to
encourage PBs to complete subloan approval expeditiously, BCH would charge a
commitment fee of 1% per annum on the project administration loan principal
from 60 days after the approval by the PU of an investment plan, until the
date of effectiveness of the corresponding subloan. Interest on the outstand-
ing principal of each project administration loan would be 10% per annum. An
additional commitment fee of 1% per annum would be charged on the principal
amount of any project administration loan not rediscounted following the
investment period.
4.11      The PBs would assume the credit risk, but BCH would maintain the
provisions established under the previous project (Credit 628-HO) to guarantee
the outstanding principal of any subloan in the event that the land on which
the investment plan was being carried out was to be expropriated under the
agrarian reform law (para 2.04). The principal and interest amounts of each
project administration loan would be repayable to BCH as the repayments of
the principal and interest of the corresponding subloan fell due. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that project administration loans would incor-
porate conditions specified in this and the preceding paragraph.
4.12      The project administration contracts would also stipulate the respon-
sibilities and procedures for analysis and technical support. Evaluation of
the creditworthiness of applicants and the analysis of their investment plans
would be carried out by the staff of PBs under their responsibility and for
their account. PBs would be required to make their best efforts to accept
interim land titles and/or other guarantees established by banking law as
security for subloans. Under the preceding projects (Credits 179-HO, 434-Ho
and 628-HO), all investment plans required approval by the Director of the PU;
however, in the proposed project, this responsibility would, to an increasing



- 29 -
extent, be delegated by the Project Director to the technical staff of the
PU and to those PBs whose competence is acceptable to the Project Director;
the extent and conditions of delegation would be specified in the respective
project administration contracts. Credit applicants would be assisted in the
preparation of investment plans by the technical staff of the PBs, or, in some
cases, by private cechnical consultants previously approved by both the PBs
and the PU. Small-scale farmers would receive free technical assistance
from staff of MRN or INA in the preparation of investment plans; however, for
other farmers, fees for private consultants, up to a maximum of 5% of the
total cost of the investment plan, could be included as an investment item if
the PB was unable to provide prompt and adequate technical assistance. The
staff of the PB, or the staff of the PU on their behalf, would visit sub-
borrowers regularly to ensure that the investment plans were being followed,
that provisions of subloan contracts were being complied with and to assess
progress in achieving production goals. BCH would be entitled to suspend or
terminate any project administration contract if the PB failed: (a) to make
due and punctual payment to BCH of any amount due under the respective project
administration contract; and (b) to carry out any other obligation in a manner
satisfactory to BCH and the Bank, or if it was unable to meet its debts as
they matured, or if legal proceedings had been initiated to liquidate all or
any of the assets of the PB. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
project administration contracts would incorporate the conditions specified in
this paragraph.
4.13      All funds due or to be repaid to BCH by PBs that are not needed to
make repayments of principal, payments of interest or other charges under the
loan or credit agreements, or to adjust for negative cash flows under the
lending program would be used for additional lending for similar purposes.
Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
Subloans and Subloan Contracts
4.14      Any farmer, or organized group of farmers, any contractor or other
entity, with a technically, financially and economically sound investment plan,
consistent with national policy, for the development of crop or livestock
production, with the exception of the purchase of livestock for fattening or
small-scale crop farmers in the area of the Guayape Regional Development
Project (para 3.05), would be eligible to apply for a subloan through a PB.
For the purposes of the project, a small-scale farmer is defined as one who
either derives at least 75% of the family income from farming activities and
has net farm assets (including land, farm machinery and livestock, but exclud-
ing any assets to be financed under the project), not exceeding the equivalent
of US$30,000, or is a beneficiary of the National Agrarian Reform Program, as
defined in Chapter 1, Title IV of the Agrarian Reform Law (para 1.13). An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provisions of this paragraph
would be maintained.
4.15      Without prior approval by the Bank, an investor would not be entitled
to borrow in excess of the equivalent of US$100,000 or an amount aggregating,
with previous subloans made under Credits 179-HO, 434-HO and 628-HO, the
equivalent of US$150,000. For purposes of this provision, subloans to an
individual beneficiary would include any subloans made to partnerships or
firms in which the beneficiary had a financial interest. The corresponding
ceiling for subloans under the preferential terms applicable to small-scale
farmers would be US$25,000; for groups of small-scale farmers organized under



- 30 -
the agrarian reform law, the maximum under the preferential terms would be the
equivalent of US$25,000, mldtiplied by the number of members of the group.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the maximum aggregate borrowing
levels specified in this paragraph would not be exceeded.
4.16      Investment subloans would be denominated in lempiras and would
finance not more than 90% of the value of investment plans approved for
small-scale farmers and not more than 80% of the value of other investment
plans; the total value of investment plans would include sub-borrowers'
contributions in family labor or in kind. The value of breeding livestock,
less than four years old would normally not be allowed to exceed 50% of the
value of the subloan. However, in special cases, the Project Director would
be permitted to approve subloans in which livestock purchase represented up to
70% of the value, provided that, over the entire project subloan portfolio of
BCH, investments in livestock did not exceed 35% of total project investments.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that financing would be kept within
the limits stipulated in this paragraph.
4.17      Interest on the outstanding balance of each subloan would be payable
at an effective rate of 14% per annum, inclusive of any applicable commissions,
taxes, charges or fees. However, BCH would be permitted to charge penality
fees on arrears of interest or principal and an additional commitment fee of
2% per annum on the principal amount of any subloan not withdrawn following
the investment period; these conditions would have to be specified in the
respective subloan contract. The repayment terms would reflect the capacity
of the sub-borrower to repay, as estimated in the cash-flow projections of the
investment plan. Subloans would be for a period of at least two years and not
more than 12 years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms
and conditions for subloans would be in accordance with the specifications of
this paragraph.
4.18      The Bank, the PU and the PBs would regularly inspect invest-
ments being financed under the project and obtain from the sub-borrower
such information and explanations as might be reasonably requested, including
written evidence that satisfactory procurement and insurance practices had
been followed and that goods and services financed by the subloan were used
exclusively to carry out the approved investment plan. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that subloan contracts would include the conditions
specified in this paragraph.
Review of Lending Terms and Conditions for Agricultural Development
4.19      The lending terms and conditions for the proposed project have been
designed to provide incentives to PBs to make investment loans in the agricul-
tural sector and, in particular, to encourage lending to small-scale farmers.
The interest and rediscount rates would be compatible with the maximum rates
currently applied in Honduras for similar purposes (para 2.07). With reference
to the average rate of domestic inflation in the past and the 8% rate projected
by the Bank for the 1980-83 period, the interest rate of 14% to the sub-borrower
would be positive in real terms. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the procedures, lending terms and conditions would not be changed, waived or
in any way modified without prior Bank approval. However, the Government, the



- 31 -
Bank and BCH would from time to time, at the request of any of them, review
the lending terms and conditions to determine if any adjustment is necessary
during the execution of the project: (a) to maintain compatibility of the
interest rates under the project with other rates charged in Honduras for
lending for investment, provided that the interest rate to the ultimate
beneficiaries under the project would remain positive in real terms; and
(b) to ensure the continuance of incentives for PBs.
Project Administration Contracts with COHDEFOR, COHBANA and MNR
4.20      For the purposes of carrying out the components, other than the
lending program, BCH would enter into project administration contracts
with COHDERFOR for forestry development, COHBANA for banana development,
COHBANA and MRN for plantain development and MRN for the studies of
water resources and agriculture.
E.   Accounts and Auditing
4.21      The BCH, as principal executing agent, would maintain separate
project accounts for the proposed project taken as a whole, in accordance
with sound accounting principles and methods, consistently applied. Similarly,
each PB would maintain, control accounts and keep such other detailed records
as deemed by BCH to be necessary to reflect at all times the financial trans-
actions incurred by them in respect of the project.
4.22      The project accounts and related basic financial statements would
be audited annually, in accordance with sound auditing standards, by a firm of
independent auditors of good standing appointed by the BCH for its own account
and acceptable to the Bank. The scope of each annual audit examination would
be sufficient to enable the independent auditors to express an opinion as to
whether or not the project's annual balance sheet, related statements of
activity and changes in financial positions present fairly the financial
position of the project, taken as a whole, and the results of its operations
for the period covered by the audit on a basis consistent with that of the
preceding period. The auditors would be required to provide a specific
opinion on the accuracy of any statements of expenditure which had been
submitted to the Bank. Following consultations between the independent
auditors, the Bank, each PB, and the PU, a statement of auditing requirements
would be incorporated in the respective project administration contract (para
4.10). It would also be a requirement that the independent auditors communi-
cate to the Project Executive Committee (para 4.01) material weaknesses in
internal accounting control that may come to their attention in the course of
their examination of the financial statements made in accordance with sound
auditing standards. The Bank would require copies of correspondence concerning
internal control, accounting and financial reporting of the PBs concerned.
4.23      The basic financial statements, together with the independent
auditor's opinion on PB compliance with the financial and accounting clauses
of the Loan and Project Agreements and its project administration contract
with BCH, would be forwarded to the Bank through the PU not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year. The underlying basic annual finan-
cial statements would be prepared using the accrual basis of accounting and



- 32 -
would consist of a balance sheet, statements of activity and changes in
financial position for such year, with comparative figures for the previous
fiscal year and such explanatory notes and supporting schedules as may be
appropriate in the particular circumstances and with such other additional
information as the Bank from time to time might request.
4.24      The Superintendency of Banks would continue to carry out his
regulatory examinations and inspections of the books, accounts and vouchers
of BANAFOM and other financial intermediaries as required by law. The Bank
would require the Superintendency to assess the adequacy of the accounting
system and procedures of BCH's trust department, which keeps the project
accounts for the PU. The PU would be informed by the Superintendency of
Banks of all matters of material interest affecting the operations of the
proposed project arising out of regulatory examinations or inspections in the
banking system, without prejudice to the independent audit of the project to
be carried out by external auditors. In the case of COHBANA and COHDEFOR, the
respective Boards of Directors would appoint external auditors, acceptable to
the Bank, to carry out an annual audit examination of these institutions'
annual financial statements without prejudice to any audit to be carried out
by the Comptroller General of the Republic.
4.25      As COHBANA and COHDEFOR would be the executing agents directly
responsible, respectively, for the banana and forestry developments, the Bank
would require them to keep books, records and accounts, which, in reasonable
detail, would accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of the proposed project for which they have accountability.
Assurances on the points in this and preceding paragraphs were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Monitoring and Reporting
4.26      The Project Director would be responsible for monitoring the
operational progress of at least 25% of the number of investment plans (except
those for COHBANA and COHDEFOR) for the duration of their terms, according to
a program previously agreed by the Bank, in order to evaluate the impact of
the project.
4.27      The project reporting procedures would be similar to those used
in preceding projects (179-HO, 434-HO, and 628-HO) suitably adapted to the
circumstances of the proposed project. The Project Director would be
required to submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank, an annual evalua-
tion report of the project investments, together with the annual audited
financial statements for the project (para 4.22), and a project completion
report and such other information relating to the implementation or financial
position of the proposed project as the Bank may reasonably request.
4.28      The General Managers of COHBANA and COHDEFOR would be responsible
for evaluating and reporting on the performance of the banana and plantain and
forestry components, respectively, for which they would establish adequate
monitoring and evaluation systems acceptable to the Bank and the PU. Separate
books, accounts and records would be kept, which, in reasonable detail, accu-
rately and fairly reflected the transactions relating to the inputs, outputs,



- 33 -
sales, market prices, employment, and operational and administrative costs of
the investments related to the project, in order to measure and evaluate
performance in monetary and physical terms against programmed budgets or such
other criteria as the Bank or the PU may reasonable request.  They would also
design and maintain systems of internal control in order to maintain account-
ability for proje t programs, investments and assets and would be required to
submit quarterly progress reports and annual evaluation reports through the PU
to the Bank.
4.29      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the monitor-
ing and evaluation procedures would be carried out as specified in the
previous paragraph; (b) quarterly progress reports would be received by
the Bank within two months of the end of each quarter; (c) annual evaluation
reports would be received by the Bank within four months of the end of the
fiscal year; and (d) a draft project completion report would be prepared by
the PU and submitted to the Bank no later than four months after proposed
project investments have been completed.
V. PRODUCTION
A. Technical Assumptions
5.01      Illustrative investment models have been prepared as a basis on
which to assess the possible range of inputs, outputs, and effects which
may be expected through the implementation of the proposed project. The
costs and prices used in the models were those of December 1978, but in aggre-
gating the figures an addition of 10% was included to bring the values to
levels of December 1979 (para 3.20). The crop and livestock yields and
production coefficients are all within the ranges actually achieved by sub-
borrowers under on-going projects in Honduras supported by IDA.  The models
are of three types:
(a)  for sugarcane, rice and dual-purpose cattle development, the
models represent the general conditions and parameters at the
time of appraisal for three of the activities which are expected
to be financed through the credit program;
(b)  for banana and plantain development, the models refer to specific
developments to be carried out on the banks of the Ulua river; and
(c)  for forestry development, the model represents specific proposals
for a pilot scheme to establish a pine plantation to protect the
watershed of the Ulua river and to produce tree seedlings to be
grown for firewood by beneficiaries of the PRODERO project.
In total, the investment models account for 80% of the baseline total cost
proposed for agricultural and forestry developments. The balance of 20%
is expected to be for the development of various perennial crops, land clearing
for seasonal crops, on-farm grain storage, heavy machinery for contractors and
improvements to municipal abattoirs.
5.02      For forestry development under the conditions found in the PRODERO
project, no reliable local data were available; therefore, the coefficients



- 34 -
were adopted from similar conditions in other Central American countries.
Technical coefficients used in the investment models for crop and livestock
production are based on experience already gained in Honduras, principally
through the monitoring of on-going IDA projects (paras 1.33 to 1.35). No
important innovations are expected to be introduced, but through the imple-
mentation of the project, improved farming systems which are already prac-
ticed in the country are intended to be disseminated more widely. The
following are the principal technical coefficients used in the investment
models:
Agricultural Development
Sugarcane              maximum yield (Year 3)            90 m tons/ha
Rice (paddy)           maximum yield (Year 4)             4 m tons/ha
Banana                 maximum yield (Year 4)            40 m tons/ha
Plantain               maximum yield (Year 3)             11.6 m tons/ha
Dual-purpose cattle   weaning rate (Year 6)              68%
milk per lactation (Year 4)       874 1/230 days
pasture carrying capacity in
Animal Units (AU) (Year 3)       1.54 AU/ha
Forestry Development                                               3
Pine plantation        average annual growth              16 m /ha
rotation period                   25 yeIrs
yield - poles (Year 14)            10 m /ha
yield - firewood (Year 14)         25 3m /ha
yield - saw logs (Year 25)    375 m /ha
Eucalyptus firewood                                           3
plantation           average annual growth              20 m /ha
rotation period                    5 years
B. Specifications of Illustrative Investment Models
5.03      The sugarcane investment model is of a 100-ha plantation on land
with a high water table but without irrigation. It is assumed that without
the investment, this land would continue to be used for grazing during the
six-month wet season. The farmers would be either individuals providing
cash as their contribution or cooperative farmers providing their own labor.
Most cropping operations would be manual, including cutting the cane,
although tractors would be used for planting operations and for loading the
cane onto trailers. Technical assistance would be supplied by the sugar mill
at a cost. The first crop would be cut in the second year of the project.
Investments were estimated to be US$813/ha including the operating costs



- 35 -
during the first year. Sugarcane yields are expected to reach a maximum in
the second and third year after planting; replanting would occur every seven
years (Annex 2, Tables 10 to 14).
5.04      The rice investment model is for an area of 50 ha on irrigated land
that is double cropped; it is also assumed that, without the investment, this
land would continue to be used for grazing for six months during the wet
season. Again, farmers would be either individuals or cooperative farmers
who would provide their own labor. Most cropping operations are expected to
be mechanically undertaken, including aerial spraying, top dressing, and
combine harvesting. Unskilled labor would be used mostly for weeding and
irrigation. Only one crop is expected to be harvested in the first year of
the project due to the necessary land leveling operations. Investments were
estimated to be US$1,433/ha and do not include operating costs since short-term
credit is estimated to be sufficient, given the six-month crop cycle. Full
development is expected to be achieved by year 4 (Annex 2, Tables 15 to 19).
5.05      The livestock investment model represents a 100-ha farm without
irrigation, initially supporting a dual-purpose herd that produces both milk
and beef. This type of investment would usually be made by individual farmers,
but about 40% is expected to be on cooperative farms. Labor requirements are
high as milking would be by hand. The suggested investments are primarily
designed to increase the feed supply by improving pastures and growing sugar-
cane for dry season forage. The number of animals in the herd is projected to
increase through the purchase of heifers and heifer retention during the first
three years. The herd's value is estimated to increase five-fold. Milk sales
as a proportion of total sales would increase slightly, from 40% of total
sales to 47% at full development. Investments were estimated to amount to
US$271/ha. Annual operating costs are expected to increase three-fold by full
development in the ninth year (Annex 2, Tables 20 to 26).
5.06      An Administration Unit for banana and plantain development in the
Ulua valley would be required to coordinate activities in the area. Investment
costs for such a unit of about US$150,000 and annual operating costs of about
US$200,000 have been allocated between the banana and plantain models (Annex 2,
Tables 27 and 28).
5.07      The banana investment model is a 200-ha plantation in the Ulua
valley on land that could be sprinkler-irrigated and which was used for banana
production 20 years ago. Farmers would be cooperative members who would
provide all the necessary labor for cultivation; it is estimated that each
family would attend the equivalent of 2.5 ha. Operations would be undertaken
manually except for spraying which would be aerial. Bananas would be planted
in a block so as to increase cultivation efficiency. Cableways would be
installed for banana transportation to the packhouse. Each-200 ha cooperative
would have a packhouse that would use casual labor provided by member families.
The first banana crop is not expected until the second year of the project
because of the initial six-month fallow period necessary for nematode control.
Investments are expected to be made in the first year and were estimated at
appraisal to average US$4,850/ha, including first-year operating costs. Seventy-
five percent of the Central Project Administration Unit's investment costs and
40% of the operating costs have been allocated to banana development and are
computed in the investment and operating costs of each model. Full development
of each model is not expected until year 4 (Annex 2, Tables 29 to 32) .



- 36 -
5.08      The plantain investment model is a 5-ha plantation in the Ulua
valley on land that is less easily drained than that used for banana cultiva-
tion and already has a sparse plantain population. Farmers may be cooperative
members, but most would be independent small-scale farmers since block cultiva-
tion is not a pressing need nor is a heavy investment in infrastructure
required. It is expected that, on average, only 2 ha will have to be planted
with new corms. Most operations would be undertaken manually except spraying
to control the Black Sigatoka (para 1.23). Grading and packing of fruit would
be on the farm itself. Improved farming practices would be applied immediately
on the standing plants so that an improved yield from these plants is expected
in the first year. Investments were estimated at appraisal to average US$1,343/ha,
including operating costs until the first harvest. Twenty-five percent of the
Central Project Administration Unit's investment costs and 60% of its yearly
operating costs have been allocated to plantain development. Full development
of each model is expected to be achieved by year 3 (Annex 2, Tables 33 to 36).
C. Inputs and Outputs
5.09      The inputs required for the development of improved farming practices
and the undertaking of farm investments envisaged under the project are
readily available in Honduras. At full development, the incremental annual
expenditures on the main inputs is estimated on the basis of all illustrative
farm models as follows:
Incremental
Item                       Annual Expenditures
(US$ million)
Fertilizers                                      1.06
Herbicides                                       0.14
Insecticides                                     0.19
Fungicides                                       0.44
Fuel and lubricants                              0.47
Plastic bags and anchors                         0.19
Fruit boxes and packing materials                1.24
Animal health and feed supplements               0.62
TOTAL                                      4.35
5.10      The incremental annual production from the project at full develop-
ment has been estimated from the illustrative investment models. The annual
quantities and value of the incremental output, assuming on-farm prices of
December 1978, would amount to the following:



- 37 -
Annual Incremental Production
Output                   Unit               Volume          Value
(US$ million)
Sugarcane               m ton                   416,500            4.6
Rice (paddy)            m ton                     13,200            3.2
Milk                    000's of liters           21,800            3.2
Beef (carcass weight)  m ton                       2,800           3.5
Bananas                 box (40 lb)           2,200,000             5.2
Plantains               box (50 lb)             700,000             1.8
TOTAL                                                        21.5
VI. MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Markets, Marketing and Prices
Markets and Marketing
6.01      Project production would consist principally of sugarcane, rice,
milk, beef, bananas, plantains, timber and firewood. The products mentioned
are those most likely to be produced, but, under the proposed project, credit
may also be used for investments in the development of other agricultural
products. It is, however, not expected that these other products would
require marketing facilities that are not already available in Honduras.
6.02      Of the seven sugar mills in Honduras, three are operating uneconomi-
cally because of an inadequate supply of sugarcane. Although refined sugar
consumption is increasing at about 4% per annum, most of the sugarcane that
is planted is to increase exports. By 1982, Honduras may exceed the 70,000-m
ton limit on export quota under the International Sugar Agreement and would
have to invoke the hardship clause under the Agreement to export more than that
amount unless, as is currently projected, the indicator price is above US$0.15/
lb. Government has discouraged all future investments in new sugar mills and
is concentrating its efforts on providing an adequate supply of sugarcane
to the existing plants.
6.03      Rice production in Honduras is limited and all production under this
project would substitute for imports.
6.04      The supply of fresh milk in Honduras is insufficient and the country
has to rely heavily on imports. However, previous inadequate pricing policies
for farmers (para 1.19) who deliver milk for pasteurization and consumer
preference suggest that most of the milk produced under the project would be
sold as raw milk.
6.05      Most of the cattle produced under the project would be culled cows
and weaned calves. The former are usually used to supply the domestic beef
market; the latter are fattened and slaughtered for export to the USA as
frozen, boneless meat. Currently, both the domestic and the export market are



- 38 
expanding, but at full development, the total annual incremental beef output
under the project is estimated to be only about 6% of the total beef production
for 1978.
6.06       The international banana marketing process is complex and dominated
by international fruit companLes. Although COHBANA has grown considerably
since its inception, and is likely to continue this trend, it has limited its
activities to producing bananas and not to marketing them. Thus, it is likely
that Government would continue to rely heavily on contracts with international
exporting companies to maintain an effective marketing system. The proposed
banana component would supply annually an additional 2.2 million boxes at full
development, about 5% of 1978 exports.
6.07      Plantains produced under the project are to be graded into three
categories on the plantation before being sold: top quality plantains, which
are now unavailable because of the effects of the Black Sigatoka disease, would
be exported once more to the USA; second grade plantains would be exported to
less demanding foreign markets, such as Nicaragua; third grade plantains
or rejects would be sold on the expanding domestic market and could be used
in the studies on the use of banana and plantain by-products (para 3.14).
6.08      Forestry prodlucts would consist of (a) seedlings of firewood species
that would be sold to The PRODERO project, at cost, and (b) pine thinnings and
timber that would be used by the local lumber industry commencing in years 14
and 25, respectively.
Prices
6.09      Prices are influenced only marginally by market restrictions imposed
by Government intervention in pricing.
6.10       Sugarcane prices are set by the sugar mills after consultations with
Government. The farmgate price often results from a weighted average that
takes into consideration the price paid for sugar on the domestic market and
the export price of sugar.  Currently, local prices are estimated to be 10%
higher than the corresponding international market prices. As the proportion
of sugar exported increases9 the impact of fluctuations of the international
sugar price will be greater on the weighted farmgate price. If world sugar
prices rise at the preiicted rate, the current disparity between the two
prices would disappear, or even reverse. A price of US$11.16/m ton of sugar-
cane was used for finarLcial analysis.
6.11      The price of rice sold by retailers is set by IHMA but farmgate
prices are often well above the guidelines indicated by IHMA due to shortages
within the country. A price of US$245.50/m ton of paddy rice was used for the
financial analysis.
6.12      Although the Government controls retail milk prices, it does not
control the farmgate price that at present is about 60% of the retail price.
Most of the milk is sold raw and only very large producers sell to pasteuriza-
tion plants as most small producers can easily sell their milk locally at



- 39 -
better prices. A study of the livestock subsector, including the processing
and retailing of its products, has been recently requested by Government
and will be financed under the first Agricultural Credit Project (para 1.19).
A price of US$0.145/1 milk was used for the financial analysis.
6.13      Livestock prices are usually set by the meat packers, who often
undertake fattening operations. The prices in Honduras are usually lower than
the corresponding price in neighboring Central American countries. Prices
within the country are influenced by the possibility of exports to the USA
markets. These have improved lately as Honduras, which has usually fulfilled
its quota established under the voluntary system estimated by the USA, may
gain quotas at the expense of other Central American countries which have not
been able to sustain their beef exports at quota levels. During 1980 it is
expected that the USA will not implement the voluntary restraint program.
6.14      Banana export prices will still depend on COHBANA's skill in
negotiating with the international exporting companies or through bilateral
contracts with major banana importing countries. COHBANA's role in influencing
the banana trade is steadily growing but it still requires the international
companies' influence to maintain its currently favorable marketing position.
A price of US$2.37/40 lb box (US$130.62/m ton) was used for the financial
analysis as farmgate price.
6.15      Plantain marketing and pricing is at present on an ad hoc basis.
If plantains are to be marketed collectively, the responsibility for such
a task will fall on MRN, which has a plantain committee. Assurances that
satisfactory marketing arrangements would be established by September 1, 1980,
were obtained at negotiations. Prices of US$3.00/50 lb for first grade
plantains, US$1.90/50 lb for second grade and US$0.60/50 lb for reject class
plantains were used for the financial analysis.
6.16      Forestry products would be marketed and priced by COHDEFOR as are
most of the national timber products. For the purpose of analysis, the current
price of US$3/m was used for sawn logs. Forest tree seedlings would be sold
at about US$60 per 1,000.
B. Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
6.17      The financial commitment of the Government to the project, excluding
price contingencies, would be about US$1.0 million over four years of commit-
ments as counterpart funds for studies and training and, through COHDEFOR,
about US$0.6 million for the forestry component. The most important source of
Government revenue would be from the export tax on bananas, as most agricul-
tural inputs are exempt from tax. About US$1.1 million from the banana export
tax would accrue annually to the Government after full development.
6.18      Agricultural development subloans would be recovered through payments
of principal and interest by sub-borrowers. Based on the experience of the
ongoing lending operations, a low level of arrears is expected. The proposed
technical assistance provided to sub-borrowers by either PBs or the PU would
be free but their cost would be covered by the interest rate spread of both



- 40 -
the PBs or BCH. COHBANA would recover, from groups of plantain or banana
growers or individual plantain growers, a proportion previously to be approved
by the Bank of the amounts received from BCH through project administration
loans for final engineering studies and investments in flood control and
drainage for the development of bananas and plantains. It is expected that it
will be possible to achieve full recovery of investment costs, including the
cost of the borrowed funds. The forestry investment (Annex 2, Tables 37 and
38) would be repaid by selling the firewood seedlings and the pine timber, but
unless a substantial change were made to the present stumpage value, the cost
for the 25-year growth period of the trees would not be fully recovered.
However, COHDEFOR would probably process and market the timber itself and thus
recuperate the funds lost on the primary product (pinewood saw rolls) through
its profit margins on the secondary products (resin, and finished lumber). No
recuperation of funds is intended for the studies and training component.
C. Farm Incomes and Financial Analysis
Farm Incomes
6.19      Beneficiaries are expected to be represented by two types of farmer
and their families. Independent operators, who would be mainly farmers with
medium or large holdings for which they require hired labor, and small-scale
farmers, many of whom would be organized into production cooperatives in
which the members and their families would provide most of the work force.
6.20      The illustrative investment models provide an approximate idea of
what each type of beneficiary would obtain annually as incremental income
after debt service. The without-project annual income estimate for a family
of six was taken to be equivalent to US$950, which a subsistence family in the
rural area could obtain from the production of food crops and the sale of some
plantains. This income per capita (US$158) would be below the estimated
absolute poverty income level for rural areas, which is currently equivalent
to US$170. The estimated incremental net income per capita for each illus-
trative model can be seen below. The improvements in income for small-scale
farmers would be substantial because the initial income level is extremely
low. As may be seen in the following table, the per capita increases of
annual income at full development are estimated at about US$500 for sugarcane,
US$600 for plantains, US$700 for rice, US$800 for dual-purpose cattle oper-
ations and nearly US$1,200 for banana development carried out by small-scale
farmers.
6.21      Taking the cash balances after debt service as a measure of project
benefits, at full development these would amount annually to approximately
US$12 million of which about US$8 million would accrue to small-scale farmers
and US$4 million to other investors. Another index of interest is the number
of units of cash investment per capita necessary to raise the net annual incre-
mental cash income and farm consumption by one unit. It may be seen from the
following table that the range is fairly narrow for small-scale farmers,
from about 1.2 units of investment for sugarcane to 1.7 units for rice,
bananas and plantains.



Illustrative Investment Models
(December 1978 prices)
Dual-
purpose
Sugarcane  Rice   Banana Plantain Cattle   Total
Area of development per model (ha)                                100      50       200       5      100        -
Small-scale Farmers
Number of models                                                 30      17         5    275       118     445
Number of families per model                                    20       10        80       1        4       -
Total number of persons                                      3,600   1,020    2,400  1,650   2,832  11,502
Cash investment per model (US$ '000)                            75       70       927       6      26        -
per ha (US$)                                  754   1,393    4,634  1,187        261        -
per family (US$)                            3,770   7,000   11,588  6,000   6,500           -
Cash balance after debt service (US$) (Year 5)              37,855  25,149  347,849  1,979   4,515           -
(Year 10)          61,383  42,345  563,196  3,590  18,330           -
Farm consumption (US$) (Year 5)                                  -        -         -       -     420        -
(Year 10)                               -        -         -       -     640        -
Net annual incremental cash income and farm
consumption (US$ per capita) (Year 10)                         512      706    1,173    598       790        -
Other Farmers
Number of models and families                                    20      16         -       -      176     212
Total number of persons                                        120       96         -       -   1,056   1,272
Cash investment (US$ '000) per model                            81       72         -       -       27       -
per ha                            813   1,433          -       -     271        -
Cash balance after debt service (US$) (Year 5)              19,999  23,091          -       -   2,651        -
(Year 10)          40,483  38,375          -      -  15,395         -
Net incremental cash income (US$ per capita) (Year 10)   6,747   6,396              -       -   2,566        -



- 42 -
Financial Projections
6.22      Based on the product prices, input and investment costs, and techni-
cal assumptions given in the respective tables in Annex 2, the financial rate
of return for each illustrative investment model is shown in Annex 2, Tables
12, 17, 24, 31, 35 and 39.
6.23      The sugarcane investment model gives a financial rate of return of
about 42% and shows that a 23% decrease in either sugarcane prices or yield
would reduce the rate to the opportunity cost of capital, taken as 9.5%. A 38%
increase in operating costs also constitutes a critical switching value for
the model.
6.24      The rice investment model gives a rate of return of about 58%; how-
ever, a drop of 26% in the product of price and yield would make it unattrac-
tive financially. Alternately, an increase in operating costs of 41% would
also render the model financially unattractive.
6.25      The livestock model gives a rate of return of about 23%, still well
above the 14% interest rate for borrowed funds, and it is the model least
sensitive to changes in critical variables. Only a 71% decrease of the sales
value of milk or an 80% fall in the sales value of cattle would seriously
affect its financial attractiveness, and operating costs could increase by
115% before the financial rate of return would be reduced to the opportunity
cost of capital.
6.26      The banana investment model gives a financial rate of return of 40%,
and prices or yields may each change by up to 33%, without making the invest-
ment unattractive. Only a 62% increase in operating costs would reduce the
rate of return to the opportunity cost of capital.
6.27      The plantain investment model has a rate of return of 48% and yet it
is quite sensitive to changes in prices and yields, as the switching value for
these critical variables is 28%; operating costs, however, could increase to
45% without affecting the switching value of the investment.
6.28      Taking into consideration the realistic technical coefficients
used and the financially attractive rates of return on farm investments, it
seems likely that the availability of long-term agricultural credit would
encourage farmers to take the financial risk to develop their farms and
increase the Honduran agricultural output.
6.29      It has not been possible to make any reasonable estimate of the
current output of the scrub-covered hillsides to be planted with trees.
The financial and economic analyses are therefore on the basis of the total
rather than incremental benefits. There will be some displacement of illegally
grazing cattle, but these would be accommodated on the adjoining land to be
more intensively farmed under the PRODERO project. The forestry component
shows a financial rate of return of 6% (Annex 2, Table 39), well below the
opportunity cost of capital. A cost increase of 10%, coupled with a 10%
decrease in benefits would further reduce the rate of return to about 4%. The
main reasons for this unattractive financial prospect are (a) the long period
after investments before substantial returns are accrued (25 years), and (b)
the very low stumpage value that is given by COHDEFOR, which is about one-third
of a realistic value (para 7.05).



- 43 -
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Benefits and Project Effects
7.01      Under the proposed project, the number of direct beneficiaries would
be approximately 12,800 of whom some 11,500 would be small-scale farmers and
their families. The main benefit would be increases in the incomes of bene-
ficiaries, estimates of which are shown in paragraph 6.20. Full-time employ-
ment would be a consequence of the lending program and would take many of the
beneficiaries out of a situation of under-employment that they are presently
in. The impact of the increased agricultural output has been shown to be
potentially considerable (para 5.10).
7.02      Through the proposed project, the banking system would continue to
channel resources to the agricultural sector since the private banks would be
required to put up part of the funds for investment lending in addition to
channeling rediscounted funds from BCH. The private banking system has an
active role in the lending for agricultural development and also provides
technical assistance to its clients; it thus assists in raising the general
standard of farming. Funds provided for technical assistance under the
project to COHBANA, CORDEFOR and the PU should also enhance the professional
capabilities of staff.  The studies for the use of banana and plantain sur-
pluses and by-products would assist in finding a use for these otherwise
wasted materials. The studies for water resources and agricultural develop-
ment should lead to identifying new investment projects. The pilot forest
project is a small component in terms of cost, yet it could be very important
for Honduras as it should develop systems to replace the rapidly declining
national forest resource.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      An economic rate of return was estimated for the project with all
costs included. In addition, an economic rate of return was estimated
separately for the forestry component. The economic rate of return for the
project was estimated on the basis of the illustrative investment models, a
30 year time period, and the following key assumptions:
(a) all costs and prices were measured in terms of the standard
border pricing methodology. Prices of traded goods were
derived from c.i.f./f.o.b. values, converted into local
currency at the official exchange rate and with appropriate
adjustments for trade and transport margins;
(b)  the cost streams used in the rate of return analysis include all
on-farm investments and operating costs and all other costs,
namely, the forestry component, funds for studies and training,
and the PU cost. On-farm investments were estimated to take place
over four years and were repeated at appropriate intervals to



- 44 -
account for replacement due to depreciation. On-farm operat-
ing costs, PU operating costs and operating costs related to
the forestry component were estimated for the entire 30-year
period; and
(c) the efficiency wage rate for unskilled labor is estimated at
0.8 times the market wage rate. This conversion factor, based
on the country estimate for 1977, revalues the marginal product
of labor in terms of border prices.
7.04      The benefit streams include only the incremental on-farm benefits
from crop and livestock production by project beneficiaries. Sugarcane, rice,
beef and bananas were computed at border prices, adjusted for transportation
costs and for projected international price movements as estimated by the
Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division, Milk has been assumed
to be non-tradable, since the majority of the production is likely to sold
directly by farmers in an unpasteurized condition; therefore, the same farmgate
price has been used for both the financial and economic analysis. Financial
prices were used for plantains, since the results are insensitive to the
application of the standard conversion factor of 0.98 used by the Bank for
Honduras.
7.05      The economic analysis for the forestry component uses the same
assumptions as the financial analysis (Annex 2, Table 40) except in the case
of unskilled wages and stumpage values. A shadow iage was used for unskilled
wages (para 7.03c) and a stumpage value of US$10/m was used. The economic
rate of return of 12% (two and a half points over the opportunity cost of
capital) on this pilot forestry scheme, if successful, would indicate that,
if more realistic product prices were paid, reforestation could be fully
economical.
7.06      These assumptions result in the following estimates (Annex 2,
Tables 41 and 42):
Economic Rate of Return                               %
Basic assumptions                                 55
20% increase in costs                          40
20% decrease in benefits                       37
20% increase in costs and
20% decrease in benefits                   25
Benefits delayed one year                      33
Switching values 1/
For incremental benefits                     -47
For incremental costs                        +88
1/   The percentage change which reduces the net benefit present value to zero
if discounted at the rate equal to the opportunity cost of capital (9.5%).



- 45 -
The key determinants for the economic rate of return are: the low land
productivity that was assumed in the without-project situation and the
high prices that are forecast for the main outputs in the near future. The
low output is because the areas where most of the developments are expected
to take place are either grasslands that are rented out six months a year for
grazing or areas liable to serious flooding. World sugar, banana, and beef
prices are expected to increase in the next decade, substantially in the case
of sugar. The sensitivity analysis shows that, even with large decreases in
benefits or increases in costs, the economic rate of return of the project
would still be acceptable. However, further analysis, together with the
results of the switching value tests, show that the economic success of the
project would be more dependent on output prices and yields than on the cost
of inputs. A 50% decrease in benefits would lead to an economic rate of
return of 9%, while even a 50% increase in costs would still allow an
economic rate of return of 25%.
C. Project Risks and Environmental Impact
Project Risks
7.07      The project does not face any major risks in terms of farmers' will-
ingness to borrow since the uptake of subloans for agricultural development
under the first Agricultural Credit Project is running at a high rate. How-
ever, there may be some initial reluctance to borrow because of the proposed
3% increase in the interest rate to sub-borrowers and 1% reduction in spread
to PBs. These new terms reflect changes in national economic conditions and
would be carefully monitored to check on their continued appropriateness
(para 4.19). Farmers would be attracted or discouraged from investing in
specific farming enterprises according to changes in both market forces
and government policy measures. The availability of funds for a wide range
of alternative activities would allow their most appropriate use. The agricul-
tural credit component faces a higher risk than the previous project as over
50% of funds are to be reserved for use by small-scale farmers who are
usually less attractive clients to the banking systems, although the contrary
may be true in the case of large cooperatives with collective guarantees and
loan responsibility. The efficiency of BANAFOM is expected to be critical in
lending operations to small-scale farmers and its adequate restructuring would
be a condition of effectiveness (para 4.05). Implementation of the banana and
plantain developments in the Ulua valley may present considerable management
difficulties. The Government, COHBANA and INA are all aware of this fact but
have substantial experience from similar successful exercises carried out in
other areas. The risk of severe tropical storms in this area is considerable,
but investments in improved drainage and a shorter variety of banana should
minimize the long-term effect of any storm damage.
7.08      Implementation of the pilot forestry project by COHDEFOR may
present difficulties, as reforestation is a relatively new enterprise for
the institution. For this reason, a strong forest management team has been
included in this component.
7.09      The PU is well established and highly competent, having had experience
with three previous IDA projects. The main difference between the proposed



- 46 -
project and the previous ones is only a matter of degree, as a greater emphasis
would be given in this project to supervising the work of PBs and extending
credit to small-scale farmers.
Environmental Impact
7.10      Farming systems which would be promoted through this project are not
expected to have harmful effects on the environment. The principal plant
protection chemicals to be used would be fungicides on bananas and plantains.
These have been intensively tested because the bananas are mainly for export
to the U.S. which has approved their use. Herbicides, fungicides and insecti-
cides required for rice production would be applied from aircraft, operated by
contractors licensed by MRN, which would supervise their technical competence
to avoid adverse effects on the environment. Improvements to the drainage
system of the Ulua river and to the effluent disposal systems from municipal
abattoirs should have a beneficial ecological impact. In the long-term it is
expected that the pilot forestry scheme would have a significant, positive
impact through initiating catchment protection in the denuded headwaters of
the Ulua and other rivers which flow north through the main agricultural
areas of Honduras.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(a) detailed proposals for studies of water resources and agri-
cultural development would be submitted to the Bank no
later than September 1, 1980 (para 3.13);
(b) project financing arrangements would be as outlined in
paragraphs 3.21 to 3.24 and 4.09;
(c) procurement procedures would be as outlined in paragraphs 3.25
to 3.27;
(d) disbursement documentation and procedures would be as established
in paragraphs 3.28 to 3.32.
(e) a project executive committee would be established no later
than September 1, 1980 and maintained (para 4.01);
(f) the Project Unit and Director would perform the duties specified
in Annex 1 (para 4.03);



- 47 -
(g) the Bank would be kept informed of (i) the progress of the
reorganization of BANAFOM and provided with an opportunity
to comment on a draft statement of new farm loan policy;
(ii) the proposed quasi-reorganization for management of the
loan portfolios and the writing-off of related loan lossesr
(iii) the plan for regional organization and management arnu
the coordination policy and mechanisms to be established
between BANAFOM, MRN and INA, particularly at regional levels;
and (iv) the proposed accounting system for BANAFOM's proposed
division for trusteeship funds (para 4.05);
(h) a Banana and Plantain Development Administration Unit would
be formed no later than September 1, 1980, which was satis-
factory to the Bank (para 4.06);
(i) project administration loans would incorporate conditions
specified in paragraphs 4.10 and 4.11;
(j) project administration contracts would incorporate conditions
specified in paragraph 4.12;
(k) the use of recuperated funds would be as specified in
paragraph 4.13;
(1) terms and conditions of subloan contracts would incorporate
the conditions specified in paragraphs 4.14 to 4.18;
(m)  the procedures, lending terms and conditions would not be changed,
waived or in any way modified without Bank approval; however, the
Government, the Bank and BCH would from time to time review the
lending terms and conditions (para 4.19);
(n) project accounts would be maintained and auditing would be
carried out as specified in paragraphs 4.21 to 4.25;
(o) (i) the monitoring and evaluation procedures specified in
paragraph 4.28 would be carried out; (ii) quarterly reports
would be received by the Bank within two months of the end of
each quarter; (iii) annual evaluation reports would be received
by the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year;
and (iv) a draft project completion report would be prepared by
the PU and submitted to the Bank no later than four months
after proposed project investments have been completed (para
4.29); and
(p) satisfactory marketing arrangements for plantains would be
established by September 1, 1980 (para 6.15).



- 48 -
8.02      Conditions of loan and credit effectiveness would be that (a) at
least one project administration contract with a PB had been executed (para
4.04); (b) the Government had taken all measures satisfactory to the Bank,
to establish the legal framework that will transform BANAFOM into an agri-
cultural development bank and enable it to take all actions referred to in
paragraph 4.05; and (c) the Bank had approved the training programs for
COHDEFOR, COHBANA and the PU (para 4.08).
8.03      Conditions of disbursement for the relevant components of the project
would be:
(a)  in respect of disbursements for subloans that each partici-
pating entity had entered into a project administration contract
with BCH (para 3.31);
(b)  detailed engineering studies for flood control and drainage works
for the first year of investments had been completed for banana and
plantain development in the Ulua valley (para 4.06); and
(c)  the Government had (i) obtained a confirmation of the interest
of local residents in the civil engineering works required for
flood control and drainage of the areas to be developed with
bananas and plantains; (ii) provided the Bank with a satis-
factory program for the formation of farmer groups; and
(iii) provided the Bank with a satisfactory proposal for the
recovery from project beneficiaries of expenditures to be
made for flood control and land drainage (para 4.07).
8.04      With the assurances obtained at negotiations, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$20 million
equivalent and an IDA credit of US$5 million, both to be made to the Republic
of Honduras. The Bank loan would be for 20 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at the rate prevailing when the loan and credit documents
are circulated to the Board. The credit would be on standard IDA terms.
March 21, 1980



- 49 -
SCHEDULE A
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
SECTION I. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION CONTRACTS
1.        The Central Bank of Honduras (BCH) would enter into Project
Administration Contracts with institutions wishing to participate in the
project that fulfilled certain criteria, including the following:
(a) satisfactory experience and good performance in agricultural
lending;
(b) adequate financial condition and management, including compliance
with the auditing requirements established by the relevant national
laws;
(c) adequate managerial, administrative and technical capabilities
at national, regional and branch levels;
(d) adequate technical staff in terms of number, experience, and
qualifications to be assigned to the project; and
(e) adequate network of branch offices or agencies.
2.        Project Administration Contracts would require that the proceeds
of the loan and credit for the project would be used exclusively for granting
subloans to sub-borrowers for carrying out investment plans under terms and
conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, which would, inter alia, ensure
that:
(a) the objective of the lending program would be to promote agricultural
development through the provision of medium- and long-term credit in
accordance with the eligibility and lending terms set out in Section
II of this Schedule;
(b) subsidiary loans would be made and be repayable in lempiras;
(c) subsidiary loans would finance 85% of the amounts of subloans
disbursed to small-scale farmers and 80% of the amounts of subloans
disbursed to all other farmers;
(d) a commitment charge of 1% per annum on the principal of a sub-
sidiary loan would be debited to the participating bank from 60 days
following the approval of an investment plan until the date of
effectiveness of the respective subloan. This charge would not be
recoverable by the participating bank through the subloan;



- 50 -
SCHEDULE A
(e) interest on the outstanding principal of each subsidiary loan would
be payable at the rate of 10% per annum;
(f) a commitment charge of 1% per year on the principal amount of the
subsidiary loan not rediscounted wouid be applied, commencing imme-
diately following the investment period shown in the respective
investment plan;
(g) the participating bank would repay the principal of, and pay
the interest on, the subsidiary loan on the dates that repayments
of principal and payments of interest on the subloans fall due;
(h) the participating bank would provide the complementary funds necessary
to finance the investment lending program, and, in addition, such
short-term loans on appropriate terms and conditions as may be
required by project beneficiaries to complete their investment plans;
(i) the participating bank would assume the credit risk;
(j) BCH would guarantee subloans made by the participating bank
in the event that the land of a project beneficiary which had
been developed under an investment plan was to be expropriated;
(k) the participating bank would make its best effort to accept interim
land titles as security for subloans;
(1) technical staff of the participating bank would assist, or cause
assistance to be provided to, farmers for the preparation of
investment plans and also provide financial supervision and tech-
nical assistance to project beneficiaries throughout the period
of investment. Alternatively, technical assistance during the
period of investment may be provided by MRN, INA or any other
appropriate public agency;
(m)  the participating bank may be authorized by the Project Unit
to approve investment plans, having regard for the past experience
and performance of the participating institution in agricultural
lending; however, the participating institution would be required
to refer to the Project Unit any investment plans which would
require over 50% of the subloan to be used for the purchase of
breeding stock;
(n) the participating bank would establish and maintain a separate
project account;
(o) the participating bank would have its project account and related
statements inspected annually by external auditors satisfactory
to BCH and the Bank;
(p) the participating bank would provide the Project Unit or the Bank
with such other information concerning the project account and
related statements as the Project Unit or the Bank might reasonably
request; and



- 51 -
SCHEDULE A
(q) the Project Administration Contract could be suspended or terminated
by BCH in the event of any one or more of the following circumstances:
(i) that the participating bank failed to make due and punctual
payment to BCH of any amount payable under the Project
Administration Contract;
(ii) that the participating bank had failed to carry out satisfac-
torily any other obligation under the Project Administration
Contract;
(iii) that the participating bank was unable to pay its debts as they
matured; and
(iv) that any legal proceeding shall have been initiated whereby
any of the property of the participating banks could be
attached, for closed or distributed among its creditors.
SECTION II. SUBLOAN CONTRACTS
Eligibility of Sub-borrowers
3.        Any farmer or organized group of farmers, any contractor or other
entity who had a technically, financially and economically sound investment
plan, consistent with national policy, for the development of crop or livestock
production, with the exception of the purchase of livestock for fattening or
small-scale crop farmers in the Guayape valley project area (Loan 1576-HO),
would be eligible to apply for a subloan. Investment plans would include
cash flow projections and estimates of expected changes in key production
coefficients. Investment plans could include any one or more of the following
categories: infrastructure; farm buildings and facilities; machinery and
equipment; land clearing or improvement, including the establishment or
renovation of pastures; semi-permanent and permanent crops and trees; and
breeding cattle less than four years of age. The costs of land survey and
titling and consultant services up to 5% of total costs would be allowable
within investment plans.
Classification of Applicants
4.        An applicant for a subloan who fulfilled either of the following
conditions would be classified as a small-scale farmer:
(a) deriving at least 75% of the family income from farming activities
and having net farm assets (including land, farm machinery and
livestock, but excluding assets to be financed out of the subloan)
not exceeding the equivalent of US$30,000; or
(b) being an agrarian reform beneficiary as defined in Chapter 1,
Title IV of Decree Law 170 of January 14, 1975.



- 52 -
SCHEDULE A
Technical Assistance and Supervision
5.         Credit applicants, other than small-scale farmers, would be assisted
in the preparation of investment plans by the technical staff of the participa-
ting bank or b- private consultants previously approved by the participating
institution and the Project Unit.  The cost of consultant services would be
acceptable for financing up to a maximum of 5% of the total cost of the
investment plan. Small-scale farmers would be assisted by the technical staff
of the participating banks, MRN or INA in preparing their investment plans.
6.        The Project Unit and the participating banks would ensure that
amounts drawn on subloans were applied exclusively to expenditures for the
investment plans to be financed thereunder.
7.        The staff of the participating banks or the staff of MRN or INA on
their behalf, would regularly visit the farms where investment plans were
being carried out to ensure that beneficiaries effectively and punctually
carried them out and complied with the provisions of their subloan contracts.
Creditworthiness and Approval of Investment Plans
8.        The evaluation of the creditworthiness of applicants and the
preparation and analysis of investment plans would be made by participating
banks. Unless otherwise specified in the Project Administration Contract, the
approval by the Project Unit of investment plans would be required before the
subloan contracts could be declared effective.
Maximum Aggregate Borrowing
9.        Unless prior approval had been obtaired from the Bank, an investor
would not be entitled to borrow in excess of the equivalent of US$100,000 or
an amount aggregating, with previous subloans made under Credits 179-H0,
434-H0 and 628-HO, the equivalent of US$150,000.  For the purposes of this
provision, subloans to an individual beneficiary would include any subloans
made to partnerships or firms in which the beneficiary had a financial interest.
A participating bank would not be permitted to lend to a small-scale farmer,
under the special conditions applicable to small-scale farmers, in excess of
an amount aggregating with previous subloans (including any made under Credits
179-HO, 434-H0 and 628-H0), the equivalent of US$25,000. For groups of
small-scale farmers organized under the agrarian reform law, the maximum would
be the equivalent of US$25,000, multiplied by the number of members of the
group.



- 53 -
SCHEDULE A
Limitations on Livestock Purchases
10.       The purchase of breeding livestock less than four years old under
investment plans would be subject to the following limitations:
(a) participating banks would not be permitted to approve any subloan
for an investment plan which proposed that more than 50% of the
investments be used for livestock purchase; however
(b) the Director of the Project Unit would be able to approve
subloans in which no more than 70% was assigned for livestock
purchase, provided that, over the whole project, no more than
35% of the value of all subloans was assigned to the purchase of
livestock.
General Conditions
11.       Each subloan contract shall, inter alia, provide that:
(a) subloans shall be denominated and repayable in lempiras;
(b) the amount of the subloans shall not exceed the equivalent
of 90% of the estimated cost of the investments to be financed
therewith on small-scale farms and not exceed the equivalent of
80% of all other investment plans;
(c) a commitment charge of 2% per year on the principal amount of the
subloan not withdrawn would be applied, commencing immediately
following the investment period shown in the respective investment
plan;
(d) an interest rate of 14% per year on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding would be charged under each subloan which would include
any applicable charges, taxes, fees or commissions. No additional
costs shall be charged unless required by law or as described in
paragraph (c) above;
(e) the repayment terms would reflect the payment ability of the sub-borrower
and the cash flow position of the investment plan, provided, however,
that such terms shall be for at least two years and not exceed 12
years, including a grace period not exceeding five years;
(f) procurement procedures would be in accordance with the requirements
contained in the Loan and Credit Agreements;



- 54 -
SCHEDULE A
(g) the sub-borrower would insure, or make adequate provisions
for the insurance of, goods to be imported specifically for the
investment plan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
subloan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery to the place of use or installation;
(h) the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the subloan
would be used exclusively for carrying out the investment plan;
(i) the participating bank would have the right to require the sub-borrower
to carry out the investment plan and operate the facilities included
therein with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and to maintain
adequate records;
(j)  the Bank, the Project Unit and the participating banks would have
the right to inspect the goods, land, sites, works and construction
included in the investment plan, the operation thereof and any
relevant records and documents; and
(k) the participating bank would have the right to suspend or terminate
access by the sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the subloan
upon failure by the sub-borrower to perform any of the obligations
under the subloan contract.
SECTION III. REVIEW OF LENDING CONDITIONS
12.       The Bank, the Borrower and BCH would, from time to time, adjust
the lending terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule to the extent
necessary to: (a) ensure the compatibility of the interest rates under the
project with interest rates in the territory of the Borrower for lending
for investment, provided that such interest rates to the ultimate benefi-
ciaries under the project remain positive in real terms; and (b) ensure the
continuance of the incentives for participating banks, including those designed
to encourage lending to small-scale farmers.
March 2:1, 1980



- 55 -
ANNEX I
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Project Director and Consultant Services
A. Authority and Responsibilities of the Project Director
The duties of the Project Director would include the following:
(a) Carrying out the policy, objectives and goals of the project;
(b) Directing the development and maintenance of sound administra-
tive policies and practices in respect of investment plans;
(c) Collaborating with public agencies in the design and execution
of agricultural development credit programs;
(d) Determining and disseminating technical standards and oper-
ational procedures for the preparation, assessment, control
and evaluation of investment plans;
(e) Developing, in collaboration with participating institutions,
a technical training policy for the preparation, assessment,
control and evaluation of investment plans;
(f) Participating in the preparation and delivery of technical
training courses for the staff of participating institutions,
or any other public agency concerned with the project;
(g) Following up, supervising and giving technical assistance to
sub-borrowers as necessary to ensure success of investment
plans;
(h) Advising participating banks to suspend or premature subloans
when the Project Director finds that the investment plans
are not being carried out in accordance with the terms of the
subloan contracts, and, in the case of suspension, informing
the participating banks if and when he is satisfied that such
situation has been satisfactorily rectified;
(i) Establishing and maintaining, for purposes of project evaluation,
records for sample farms and ranches representing at least 25%
of sub-borrowers;



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
(j) Making recommendations with respect to:
(i) remuneration and other compensation for staff of the
Project Unit in order to ensure that the best personnel
available are attracted; and
(ii) recruitment, promotion, suspension and removal of such staff;
(k) Assisting participating institutions to achieve the purposes of
the project through improvement of their relevant organization
and management procedures;
(1)  Supervising the performance of the participating institutions
in the carrying out of their obligations under the project
administration contracts;
(m)  Ensuring that, starting December 31, 1980, at least 50% of the
total value of subloans approved by participating banks will
go to small-scale sub-borrowers, provided that, at the time
all subloans have been committed, at least such percentage
shall have been achieved and, for that purpose, advising
participating institutions of the uncommitted funds available
for sub-lending;
(n)  Approving investment plans which allocate more than 50% but no more
than 70% of the subloan for acquisition of breeding cattle less than
four years old, approving any changes to the investment plans and
notifying the Bank thereof in the succeeding progress report of such
approval;
(o)  Approving such other investment as require approval under the
procedures established for each participating institution;
(p) Estimating, from time to time, the aggregate cost of investment
plans and the categories of goods and services therein and
informing the participating institutions of the amounts of the
credit and loan remaining for acquisition of breeding cattle
less than four years old;
(q) Ensuring that procurement procedures are in accordance with
the requirements of the Loan and Credit Agreements;
(r) Ensuring compliance with project monitoring and reporting
requirements of the Loan and Credit Agreements;
(s) Ensuring that accounting and auditing procedures are in accordance
with the requirements of the Loan and Credit Agreements; and
(t) Delegating, from time to time, one or more of the above duties
to the Project Sub-Director or to Regional Project Chiefs.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
B. Terms of Reference for Consultant Services for a Survey of
Groundwater Resources
The main objectives of the study on drainage and groundwater in the
selected area would be the production of:
(a)  a technical and economic study to evaluate the potential of
groundwater;
(b)  a detailed plan and design of a small pilot irrigation system
to be operated by a groundwater well; and
(c)  a pre-feasibility study on drainage improvement and flood control
schemes.
To accomplish this, the study would:
(a) for general purposes:
(i) review basic documents and information;
(ii) carry out a field reconnaissance; and
(iii) prepare an inventory of water resources.
(b)  for the groundwater study:
(i)  prepare a geological map;
(ii) carry out electrical sounding;
(iii)  drill test holes, test wells and observation holes and
carry out pump tests;
(iv) measure levels at semi-monthly intervals on the piezometric
control network;
(v)  analyze well-water quality;
(vi) analyze the water balance and inter-relations between
surface and groundwater, as well as fresh water and saline
water;
(vii)  estimate groundwater potential;
(viii)  select areas where groundwater could be developed;
(ix) design wells and estimate the cost; and
(x)  present a program for the control and management of
exploitation.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
(c)  for the design of a small pilot irrigation scheme of about 50 ha:
(i) select an area for the pilot scheme;
(ii) prepare a topographic map at a scale of 1:1,000 with
25 cm contour intervals;
(iii)  -prepare a soils map;
(iv)  design leveling of land;
(v)  design tubewells and prepare specifications for pumping
equipment;
(vi)  design irrigation facilities, prepare specifications and
estimate the construction cost; and
(vii)  carry out an economic study of the pilot irrigation scheme.
(d) flood control:
(i)  define areas subject to periodic flooding and areas having
critically poor surface drainage conditions;
(ii)  lay out works for the control of inundation and improvement
of drainage on the basis of updated topographic levels,
aerial photography and existing cartography;
(iii)  elaborate designs and estimate benefit:cost ratios for the
drainage and flood control works;
(iv)  prepare a detailed program for collecting data and information
necessary to prepare a full feasibility study and complete the
detailed design of works; and
(v)  prepare terms of reference and cost estimate for a full
feasibility study.
March 21, 1980



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
HONDURAS                                   Table 1
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Sector Contribution to GDP
(millions 1966 lempira)
Average 1973-1977             1 9 7 7
Value     Annual Growth  Structure  Value           Structure
L million    Rate %            _       L million          %
Agricultural Sector
Crops
Banana                    111.5        (-3.4)       25.0         122.8        25.8
Coffee                     59.4        (-2.3)       13.3          58.4         12.2
Corn                       42.4        (-2.9)        9.5          39.1          8.2
Beans                      14.0          0.6         3.1           13.3         2.8
Other crops                71.4          6.5        16.0          83.6         17.6
Sub-total for crops  298.7          (-0.7)       66.9         317.2        66.6
Livestock
Cattle                     65.9        (-0.8)       14.8          71.6         15.0
Poultry                    18.1          6.4         4.0          20.5          4.3_
Sub-total for
livestock
84.0           -         18.8          92.1        19.3
Fisheries,beekeeping and
'unting                       6.5         19.3         1.5            8.1         1.7
Forestry                      57.4         (-3.6)       12.8          58.6        12.3
Sub-total for
agricultural sector       446.6        (-0.7)      100.0         476.0       100.0
Other Sectors                      942.8                     67.9        1068.0        62.2
Total of factor cost        1389.4                    100.0         1544.0       100.0
Total at market prices    1542.4                                    1709.0
Source: BCH Project Submission, Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2.
March 21, 1980



- 6O -                                                          ANNEX 2
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Sector Contribution to Merchandise Trade
(millions current lempira)
Average 1973-1977                                          1977
Structure           7                              Structure           7,
Value       Agricultural    National               Value       Agricultural    National
L million         Sector          Total            L million         Sector           Total
Imports
a) Consumer goods
Food                                                      71.6               -            8.6                 78.2                -            6.9
Other durables and non-durables                          118.0               -           14.2                 184.9               -           16.4
Sub-total                                           189.6               -           22.8                 263.1               -           23<3
b)  Petroleum, oil and lubricants                              110.2               -            13.3                128.0               -            11.3
c) Primary materials and other
intermediary products for:
Agriculture                                               40.6               -            4.9                 68.0                -            6.0
Industry                                                244.2               -            29.4                326.2               -           28.9
Sub-total                                           284.8               -           34.3                 394.2               -           34,9
d)  Construction materials                                      38.7               -             4.7                 52.0               -            4.6
e) Capital goods
Agricultural sector                                       26.8               -            3.2                 39.0                -            3.5
Other sectors                                            177.1               -           21.3                248.2                -           22.0
Sub-total                                           203.9               -            24.5                987j2               -           25.5
f)  Other items                                                  3.4               -             0.4                  4,0               -            0.4
National total imports of goods:                      830.6                -          100.0              1,128,5               -          100.0
of which food and agricultural
inputs and capital goods                            139.0               -           16.7                 185.2               -           16.4
Exports
a) Crops
Banana                                                   186.9           34.7            26.8                250.8            30.6            24.8
Coffee                                                   167.0           31.0            23.9                336.0            40.9            33.3
Cotton                                                     9.9            1.8             1.4                 22.2             2.7             2.2
Tobacco                                                   10.8            2.0             1.5                 17.0             2.1             1.7
Corn                                                       0.8            0.1             0.1                  0.1              -               -
Beans                                                      2.0             0.4            0.3                  1.1             0.1             0.1
Other crops                                                3.3             0.6            0.5                  3.2             0,4             0.3
Sub-total                                           380.7            70.6            54.5                630.4           76.8            62.4L
b) Industrial products of agricultural origin
Meat                                                      42.0            7.8            6.0                  44.8             5.5             4.5
Sugar                                                      7.0            1.3            1.0                   8.0             1.0             0.8
Fruit (processed)                                          5.1            0.9            0.7                   7.5             0.9             0.7
Vegetable                                                  0.4             0.1           0.1                     -              -               -
Cigars and cigarettes                                      3.1            0.6            0.5                   3.4             0.4             0.3
Sub-total                                            57.6            10.7            8.3                  63,7             7,8            6.3
c)  Fisheries (shrimps and lobster)                             17.8             3.3            2.6                  31.1             3.8            3.1
d)  Lumber                                                      82.6            15.4           11.9                  95.0            11.6            9.4
Sub-total for agricultural sector                   538.7           100.0          77.3                  820.2          100.0            81 2
e). Other industrial products                                  100.2                -          14.3                 127.4               -           12.7
f)  Minerals (silver, lead and Zi'c)                            58.4                _           8.4                  61.9               -            6.1
National total exports of goods                       697.3                -         100.0               1,009.5               -          10o.0
Balance of trade in goods:
Agricultural sector                               399.7               -              -                 635.0               -
National                                        (-133.3)              _              -               (-119.0)              -               -
Source:  BCd Project Submission, Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6.
March 21, 1980



-61-                          ANNEX 2
Table 3
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Land Availability and Utilization: 1975-1977
Area
'000 ha            %
Farmland (including potential farmland)
Cultivated land
Seasonal crops                         505.2           4.5
Permanent crops                        214.4           1.9
Sub-total                         719.6            6.4
Pastures                             1,049.5           9.4
Sub-total                       1,769.1           15.8
Uncultivated land
Grassland                              289.9           2.6
Cultivable land                        741.0           6.6
Sub-total                        1,030.9            9.2
Sub-total for farmland           2,800.0           25.0
Forest and uncultivable land
Tropical hardwoods                         3,920.0          35.0
Pines                                      2,700.0          24.0
Sub-total for forest                6,620.0           59.0
Eroded and other land (including
swamps and urban areas)                    1,788.8          16.0
Sub-total                           8,408.8           75.0
Total National Area                            11,208.8          100.0
Source: CONSUPLANE - BCH Project Submission, Table A.
March 21, 1980



ANNEX 2
Table 4
- 62 -
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Number and Areas of Farms in 1974
-- Size of Farm (ha)         Category        Number of  Farms      Area of Farms
Number        %         '000 ha    %
Up. to 10            Sub-family           153,045      78.4       440        16.8
10 to 50             Family                34,390      17.6       730        27.7
Over 50              Multifamily (medium) 7,461         3.8       881        33.5
Multifamily (large)    445        0.2       579        22.0
Total               195,341    100.0    2,630         100.0
Source: Agricultural:^ensus, BCH Project Submission, Annex 1, Table 7
March 21, 1980



ANNEX 2
- 63 -                            Table 5
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance of the Banking System
(Excluding the Central Bank) as of June 30, 1979
(L millions)
Assets
External (short term)                                     25.4
Loans and Investments
Public Sector:
Central Government                              159.1
Local Governments                                 10.7
Decentralized Agencies                             4.0
Private Sector
Loans and discounts                           1,202.7
Bonds                                            59.9
Other                                             35.0
Cash and Cash Equivalents
In hand                                          26.6
Deposits with Central Bank                        60.5
Other                                             52.0
Other                                                    171.2
Total                                     1,807.1
Liabilities
External
Short term                                            34.1
Other                                                202.9
Deposits
Public Sector:
Central Government                                 3.2
Local Governments                                  2.8
Decentralized Agencies                            34.6
Private Sector
Deposits (demand)                                323.0
Deposits (savings)                               270.6
Deposits (time)                                  264.1
Other                                             98.7
Other
Public Sector:
Bonds                                         12.5
Loans                                         18.2
Private Sector
Special Savings Accounts                     41.2
Bonds                                         86.4
Other                                         29.0
Banking Sector
Central Bank                                 127.7
Capital and Reserves                                 258.1
Total                                   1,807.1
Source: banco Central de Honduras.
March 21, 1980



IONDURAS
SECOND AGLRCETRXL CUl,TU8 PROJOCT
tnnrementtl1 Conts oR0 Admi istration ooR Oral ninA
YSnr I                         ear                          R ent 3eath                                                                          Foreign       P.orejYn      Poreigo
L1nii Cosr        N. of          Cost           No.  f         Con             No.  f         Cot            No, of         Cost                Enrol Coot               EnnEanOr      Rociranon     Exchange
Teens                                                       UCnL                                 P lLs                           nits      .  (L)             Exnits_        (()         _ ti t             L               (L)          iCoil              /          JLL            (CN$1
P-oj-n  UEit SDeff
Regional Direrrt;or                                    non-no onhs             3,500             12         42,000              12        42,DOO              12        42,000              12         42,000         168,000        84,000
Rgnitoliooelinnn; La Ceiba,  -an Pndtn Dole                                    2,000              24        40,000              24        40,00cr             24        48,0(10             24         40,000         192,000        96,000
Teg cigalpa                                               2,000              -           -                 12        24_000              12        24_000              12         24,D00          72.000        3f6,00
SNtota 1                                                                        90,000                       114,000                       114,000                        114,000         432,000       216,2001 
C on so 1 ant aseonions
Long-terra a/                                                                  g,Stll            -            -                -            -                 0036     306,RO0R                       306,OD0         612,DDO       3D6,00               100       hl2,000       306,000
Nhart t-n rm   "/                                                             14,000               2       28_ 00                2        28.000               2        28000                2         28.000         112,_000       506 20               100      IL2 000        56 000
Noh Subtatal                                                                    28,000                        28,000                       334,000                        33,4000         724,000       362,RO                        724,002       302,000
Training 
Ioreign  training of P-oJ-t Unit Snol 0/n                                      4,000               2         8,000               2         8,000               2         8,000               2          8,000          32,000        16,000               100       32,000        16,000
Darn de-onntrstio- and fild dapy                             -                  -                -                              -         20,000              -p00                          - 0 .000                 80.000        40R000                30     Jf,p9( O        9.000
SE,,tnnsl                                                                       28,000                        20,200                        28,000                         28,00D         112,0DO        5t,00tl                        50,00D        25,000
Vehioles ond eNol tart
V.,iolen (4-ol-eni drive) d/                                No.               15,000               6        90,000               1        15,000                                             b         90,000         195,000        97,500               80       104,000        78,000
OffiCieeqip.n.t, Das1                                        -                 2000              -          2000                -           -                             -                 _                           2,000         1000                 80       _160()             00
Sobtttol                                                                        92,000                        15,000                                                       90,000         197,000        98,500                        157,600        78,800
Operarinon anod mmitaNaxanto
OVeioles a!                                                 Mo.                5,200              6         31,200               7        16E400               7        36,400               7         36,400         140,400        70,200                75      IOS,000        52,650
Offiee an Danli                                              -                 5,000                           000                           000                         5,000              -           5,000          20,000        10,000               -
Par dien  Projont UDia  Stsff f/                            day                   30            300          9,000            400         12,0(0            400         12,000             400         12,000          45,000        22,500
StRff sf Patoipatixg ltiioorioo g              /                      30         2,160        64_8(0           2,160        64_800            2,100       6 _4.8U 0         2,160        6 4_9O          259.200       E _N   0
SNbotal-                                                                       110,000                       118,200                       118,20(0                      118,200          464,600       232,300                        100 300        52,650
Total Costs                                                                                                  048,000                       303,200                       S94,200                        684,200       1,929,600       904,8)0                04    1,030,900       511,450
a/  Coast  han-d >n current oOiSoitaxnp setvico agreLmentx 01l CATI.
b/  Fot orop ap-nialists.
C/  E-ti-oattd co  tao  -onths abroad fon axe aroff mnber-
d/  Fnor -nhiole-  fan -ne  staff and olro-  -ehiolen to rapia-e thon- p-o-oorly Doing otd Dy CATR2  captr,s
e/  ODly for Eln -ehicles  -ooght i  Peers 1 ta d 2.
f/ Pooje_s stlff are elti-sxod L. ten-n0 100 dayotye-r.
'/  Staff under Doining are en-imated to rraxeL 180 days/yPac.
Donta:  Mission.
Maroh 21, 09800



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Phasing of Lovooto-ot. (adj..t.d to prices esti-ted for Dece=b-r 1979)
(US$ '000)
USit      Foreign                  Year 1                             YerL    2                           o Year 3       _Y.o   4                                                    Totals
Caoh      Exchange            Local  For-igo                     Local  Foretig                     Local  Foreign                     Local  Foreign                      Local  Foreign              %
Coot          .          No., Cost   Exch-nge  Total        No.  Cost   Exchange   Total       No. Coot        E      Total       No.  Cost   Eo-ha-ge  Total        No.  Cost   Exchange  Totol  Basalios
Agricultural D-velopFent
Snall_scale Carmors
Sogaroa..                                      83         51            9    366       381      747       15    610       635   1,245         6    244       254     498                 -        _        _       30  1,220    1,270   2,490
Rice                                           77         59            3      95      136      231        6    109       273     462         8    253       363     616         -       -        -        -       17    537        772   1,309
Ban0n0                                      1,020         54            2    938    1,102   2,040          2    938    1,102   2,040          1    470       550   1,020         -       -        -        -        5  2,346    2,754   5,100
Plootaio                                        7         46          137    518       441      959      138    522       444     966         -      -         -       -             -            -        -      275  1,040       885   1,925
Dual-p-rpote cattle: first yeor                15         34           38    376       194      570       40    396       204     600        40    396       204     600                 -                 -)     118  2,259    1,163   3,422
dseondyear               14         34            _       _        _        -  -_           351     181     532         -    370       190     560         -    370       190      560)        -      -         -
Sub-total:  snal-scale f-ra-ro               32         48          180  2.293    2,254   4.547        201  3.006    2.S39    .845         55  1,733    1.561   3.294          -    370       190      560      445- 7 402    6844  14.246        42
Othar inv-tto-
Sugare-ne                                      89         51            7    305       318      623       10    436       454     890         3    131       136     267                 -        -        -       20    872       908   1,780        -
Rica                                           70          59           3      97      140      232        6    104       280     474         7    227       326     553         -       -        -        -       16    510        246   1,264       -
R,ool-laoOpooe oott1e~ first year              15          34          60    594       306      900       58    574       296     870        58    574       296     8706                                         176  1,742        898   2.640       _
so..o d poor             15         34            -  -                 -         -        504       306     000         -    534       206     870         -    574       206      870         - 1.42        698   2,'640       -
9ob-total                                    39           -          70    996       764   1.760        74  1,798    1,336   3,134         68  1,506    1,054   2,560          -    574       296      870      212  4,874    3,450   8,324        25
llunicipal abattoiro                          250          50           1    125       125      250        2    250       250      500        1    125       125     250          -     -          -       -         4    500       500   1,000       3
Othet agricultural iCveot-Oots
i-cliding cotraiota-                         100         60           10    400       600   1,000        10    400       600   1.000        10    400       600   1,000         9    372       558      930       38  1.572    2.358   3.930        12
Sob-total:  other is--storo                  52         48           81  1.521    1,489   3.010         86  2.448    2,186   4_634         70  2.031    1.779   3,810          9    046       854   1 800       255  6.946    6.308  13,254        40
Sob-total:  agricoltral doveSop.est            30         48          270  3.814    3,743   7.557        287  5.454    5.025  10.479        134  3 764    3.340   7,104          9  1.316    1.044   2 360        700 14,340   13.1522 0             82
Forestry D-velogp=et
ISv-.t not costs                               -          64            _     58       102     160        -       4         6      10         -     10        18      28         -      4         6       10        -      76       132     208
Operating co-to                                -           25           _    255        85      340       -      300      600     400         _    316       106     422 _             322      108  _ 430           _  1,193       399   1,592
Sub-total                                    _          30            -    313       187     500              304       106     410         -    324       124     450         -    326       114     440         _   ,269    _ 531   1800          6
St.di-s and Training                             -          80            _    157       628      785       _      157      628     785         _    157       628     785         -    157       628      785         -    628    2,512   3,140        9
Feolect Unit                                                 52                  91       99      190               8 02     88      170        -    158       172     330         -    178       192      370         -    509       551   1,060       3
Baselioe Total                                   -           50            - 4,375    4,657   9,032         -   5,997    5,847  11,804          -  4,405    4,264   8,669          _  1,977    1,978   3.955           - 16,754   16,746  33,500    100
Price cooti0gencieo: footor                      -            -           -  0.040    0.045         -       -   0.123    0.133         _        -  0.213    0.219         -        -  0.316    0.304         -                -         -       -       -
: -alo                       -            -                 175      210      385       _      733      778   1,516         -    938       934   1,872               6 425    602   1,227          -  2,476    2,524   5,000       15
Total P-Jo.ct Coot                                         50            - 4,550    4.867   9.417         -   6.735    6.625  13.360          -  5,343    5.100  10.541           -  2.602    2 580   5.182          - 10,230   1  270  30500    115
Sourtce. Mission.
MOrch 21, 1980 '



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Phasing of Commitments by Central Bank (BCH) and Bank Group
(US$ '000)
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3         Year 4        Total
Agricultural Lending Program
Small-scale Farmers                      4,500         5,800         3,300            600        14,200
BCH rediscount  85%                      3,825         4,930         2,805            510        12,070
Bank Group    77%                      3,465         4,466         2,541           462        10,934
Other Investors                          2,400         3,700         3,000          1,500        10,600
BCH rediscount  80%                      1,920         2,960         2,400         1,200         8,480
Bank Group    70%                      1,680         2,590         2,100         1,050         7,420
Project Unit                                200           180          340            380         1,100
Bank Group    67%                        134           121           228           254            737
Studies and Training                       770           770           780            780        3,100
Bank Group    67%                        516           516           523           522         2,077
Forestry Development                       500           410           450           440         1,800
Bank Group    67%                        335           275           302           294         1,206
Total Commitments                        8,370        10,860         7,870         3,700        30,800
of which Bank Group                    6,130         7,968         5,694         2,582        22,374       H
it'I
{D X
Source; Mission.
March 21, 1980



HO ND O`AS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
us$ 'ROB (baceIi-e  -ol-o)
ProJect Yea-
1          2           3           4          5        6         7        B         9        BR         11         12         13        Bk         iS         1B         17         18         19         20        Totala
CABO INFLOW
B.  Bank C-Bp Biobor--uets
Le-diog Pregran
IDA                                                  1,286      2,647                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,933
Ran                                                      -        977       6.451       3,860      1,13~3        -         --                            -         -          -          ------                                                                             14,421
Sbo-Ltol1                                         1,206       5,624_    6,451         3,860   _1.133                     -                                                                                                                                                8354
IDA                                                     67-                                  -          -        -         -        -         -                                                                              -  -  -                                             63
B..k                                                   --          128         174         241       127         -                                                            -          -----                                                                                  2
S.b-tet.1                                             67         120         124         241       127         --                           -         -                               --                    -                     --                              -737
2.  let-rrt e   UvOsDe'
CnssloIv  Ssrpis-   I0,1 P.a.                                 -        (105)       (307)       (270)     (108)      120      243       307      532        690        83R        942     1,055      1,139     1,152      1,101      1.BL5        9i9         823        726      10,793
3.  Debt RSrvice Ire  P-tieipati.g Rooks 
itterest,    10%! P.c..                                              2901        070       1,591     1,844    1,772    B,575    1,369   1,163            957       751        545        339       162          53          9          --                              -      13,390
Prfincpal   12 years (2 yeero  g-ace)                       -           -        200         97R      B,620    1,970    2,060    2,060    2,060       2,060      0,60       2060       1.7        ,9           42         S                                                      0 BU
0S16-tot.l                                                       29 0     1, 2 60     2,561      3,46      372       ,65       ,429   3,223       3.017       ,1        ,R         ,0         .5           9          99                                                  33- 990
Total InCles                                             1,333        5,5         7,570      6,392      4,016    3,062    3,878   3,016    3,755         3,697      3,641     3.)47      0,164    2.390        1,645      1,2500    115           99         83        76         384
CASH OUTFLOW
1.  Srl o ts t  P-tftispating Besks                           7,900       6,800       6,500       3,500        900              -        -             -               -          -          -          -         -          -          -           -              -          -      20,600
2.  P-ojest SUit (tn---a,,o  UU-t.)                             191         167         327         380        210      210       210      210       210        210       210        210        210        210        210       210        210        210        210        710        4.425
3.  Dbek  Service te GeOU-enet 
Ba-k Crep F-nds
I1DA PFnd
Intee-t:   20 p.a.                                                  27          80          80        80        82       07        00       00         00         80         72         64        56         40         40         32         24         16          8       1,107
Pri-ipal:  2N year  (LB yean  grs)                       -           -           -           -          -        --                           -          -       400        56(        400       400        400        400        400        400        400        400       4,000
Back Panda
Cemitnet feel  0.75% P...                              113           09          40          9          -        -         -         -        -          -         -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -           251
Iatoreat:           8.25%                                -            -        256         903     1.141   1.245    1,150    1,075         990        908        025        743       642        520        495        412        330        240        165        03       12,107
Pein-ipaL,:         20 y--r  (3 year' g-ee)              -           -                 -           -         1,09               1,000 1.0I,0         0 0 0     101 0         00     1  00      1  00      1  10          00 _00              17      100        1001         5  5
Tata1 Ostflee~j 2.24                                                  7,083        203        4,72       2,331    2,624    3,440    2365    5,280        2,190      2,515      2,425      2,334     2,244      2,153      2,062      1,972      1,892      1,791     1,701       57,58k
Net C-oh Flo.. . ....                                  (1,051)    (1,226)         375       1,620     2,205    1,236    1.438   1,451   1,475          1,490    1.126       1,122         030        146      (509)      (6)        (952)      (963)      (960)      (975)      6,293   .7e
UsUlti-e                          (1851)    (3,072)    (2,702)    (1,082)    1,203    2,439    3,022    1.328   6,803             8,3'02     9,420    19,530    11.380    11,52k    11,             0155     9,197       ,24        ,260       ,98
March 21, 1989



dIONDURAS
SECOND AGRICILTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sugarcane Investmeant Model: 100-ha Plantation
Investment Costs
Unit            No. of                                      Irnvgtment              Foreign         Foreign        Foreign
Investment Item                     Unit                   Cost            Units                                                                Exchange        Exchange      Exchange
_____________                                     (JL)__                                                (L)                 (USe)        /,              (L            (USS)
1) Land Development
Land clearing L7                 ha                     200             100                                20,000               10,000         40           8,000          4,000
Subsoiling_b/    c               ha                     50              100                                 5,000                2,500         50           2,500          1,250
Roads and drains_/               km                  3,000                8                                24,000               12,000         40           9,600          4,800
Fencing renovation/             km                    400                4                                 1,600                  800         40             320            160
2) Constructions
Storehouse                       --                  2,500                1                                 2,500                1,250         10              250           125
3) Machinerv
Trac torgL                                          27,000                 1                               27,000               13,500         75          20,250         10,125
Disk plow                        --                  4,000                 1                                4,000                2,000         80           3,200          1,600
Disk harrow                      --                  7,000                1                                 7,000                3,500         80           5,600          2,800
Ridger                           --                  2,000                1                                 2,000                1,000         80           1,600            800
lianual knapsack sprayer         __                    140                4                                   560                  280        80              448            224   a
4) Planting Operations=V
Plowing                          ha                      12.5           100                                 1,250                  625         50              629           313
Disking                          ha                      10.3           100                                 1,030                  515         50              515           258
Ridging                          ha                       8.3           100                                   830                  415         50             415            207
Covering seed -cane              ha                       8.3           100                                   830                  415         50             415            207
Cultivation                      ha                      12.4           100                                 1,240                  620         50              620           310
5) Labor
Tractor operator                 ha                     12              100                                1,200                   600         __
Cleaning and burning             ha                     40              100                                 4,000                2,000         --             __
Planting                         ha                     26              100                                 2,600                1,300        --              _-             __
Cultural practices               ha                     40              100                                 4,000                2,000        --              __             __
6) Inputs
Seed-cane                        s ton                  30.6            900                                27,540               13,770        33            9,088         4,544
Fertilizer - 15-15-15            kg                      0.55        19,500                                10,725                5,363        80            8,580          4,290
- Urea              kg                       0.45       13,600                                 6,120                3,060         80           4,896          2,448
Herbicide - powder               kg                     16.0            250                                 4,000                2,000        80            3,200          1,600
Herbicide - liquid               It                       5.33          150                                   800                  400        80              640            320
Insecticide                      if                      7.2            250                                 1,800                  900        80            1,440            720
Rat poison                       kg                       5.0           200                                 1,000                  500        80              800            400
Total Investment Cost                                                                                         162,625               81,313         51          83,002         41,501
(Family labor)R/                                                                                              (11,800)              (5,900)        (0)
a/ By contract - 5 hour/ha o-f CAT D4 at L40/hour.
b/ By contract - 1.25 hours/ha of CAT D4.
c/ Drains are adjacent to roads and are constructed at the same time.
d/ Partial renovation of existing fences.
e/ 77-hp diesel tractor.
f/ Only includes direct fuel and maintenance costs of own tractor.
P/ For cooperative small farmers case.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sugarcane Investment Model: 100-ha Plantation
Sales and Operating Costs
Before        Unit    End of -          ------------------------------------Year----------------------------------------------------
Development       Cost            1            2            3             4            5             6             7            8             9
Production                                                         (L)
Yield (ts ton/ha)                                                                           80           90            90           85            80            75           80            90
Annual production (m ton)                                                               8,000         9,000        9,000         8,500         8,000        7,500         8,000        9,000
Sales (per m ton at 10% sugar content)              3,000            22.32       -         178,560      200,880      200,880       189,720       178,560      167,400       178,560       200,880
Operating Costs
a) Labor
Tractor operator (per ha)                                      3           -            300           300          300           300           300          300           -             300
Cultural practices (per ha)                                  100                     i0,OUO        10,000       10,000        10,000       10,000        10,000           -         10,000
Harvest (per ton)                                              3.5         -         28.000       31.500        321QQ       _2             28,00        26,250         f            31,500
Sub-total labor                                                      -         38,300        41,800       41,800        40,050       38,300        36,550        28,000       41,800
b) Operations with tractor
Cultivations                                                  12.4      _-            1,240         1,240        1,240         1240                       1,240         1,240        1,240
Suib-total planting operations                                                   1,240        1,240         1,240        1,240         1,240        1,240         1,240         1,240
c) Inputs
Fertilizer - Urea (per kg)                                       0.45      -          6,120         6,120        6,120         6,120        6,120         6,12u         6,120        6,120
- 15-15-15 (per kg)                                 0.55       -         10,725       10,725        10,725       10,725        10,725       10,725        10,725        10,725
Herbicide liquid (It)                                            5.33      -            800           800          800           800           800          800           800           800
Insecticide (1t)                                                 7.20      -          1,800         1,800        1,800         1,800        1,800         1,800         1,800        1,800
Rat poison (kg)                                                  5.0       -          1,000         1,000        1,000         1           .000           1000          1 000         1,000
Sub-total inputs                                                               20,445        20,445        20,445       20,445        20,445       20,44        5              20,445
d) Services
Cane loading (v ton)-                                            1.1       -          8,800         9,900        9,900         9,350        8,800         8,250         8,800        9,900
Cane transport (per ton)a                                        4.07      -         32,560       36,630        36,630        34,595       32,560        30,525       32,56o        36,630
Sugar mill technical assistance (m ton)                          0.55      -          4,400        4,950         4,950         4,675        4,400         4,125        4,400         4,950
Sub-total services                                                             45,760        51,480       51,480        48,620       45,760        42,900        45,760        51,480
e)  Taxes (Social)                                                     0.55       -          4,400        4,950         4,950        4,675         4,400         4,125        4,40O         4,950
Total Operating Costs                                                             -        110,i45      119,915       119,915      115,030       110,145       105,260       99,845       119,915  m
(Family labor) b/                                                               (-)        (38,300)     (41,800)      (41,800)     (40,050)      (38,300)     (36,550)      (28,000)      (41,800)
a/ Under contract for sugar mill and financed by same; cost is deducted from payment.
h/ For cooperative smal] farmers.
Note: The operating costs that take place in year 1 are considered as investments.
Source: Miss.on.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sugarcane Investment Model: 100-ha Plantation
Cost-Benefit Analysis and Financial Rate of Return
(leinpiras)
With Project
Wi thout
Project   Year  1       2         3         4          5         6         7         8       9 - 10    11         12         13        14      15 - 16    17          18        19        20
Benefits
Sales                        3,000            -  178,560  200,880  200.880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560  200,880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560  200,880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560
ResidualvalueVl                  - _          _         _         _         _         _      _            _         _          _         _         _         _         _      _         _                            33,800
Total Benefits               3,000            -  178,560  200,880  200,880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560  200,880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560  200,880  189,720  178,560  167,400  212,360
Costs
Investments -/                   -    162,625           -         -         -         -         -         -   90,440          -          -         -         -   90,440           -         -         -         -   90,440
Total Operating Costs            -            -  110,145  119_915  119j 915  115,030  110,145 105.260   99,845  119915  1103                     14 5 105,260   98    119,915 115,030  110,145   0                  99_845
Total Costs                      -    162,625  110,145  119,915  119,915  115,030  110,145  105,260  190,285  119,915  115,030  110,145  105,260  190,285  119,915  115,030  110,145  105,260  190,285
Net Benefits
Total Benefits               3,000            -  178,560  200,880  200,880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560  200.880  189,720  178,560  167,400  178,560  200,880  189,720  178,560  567,400  212,360
Total Costs                            162,625  110_145  119,915  119,915  115_030  110,145  105,260  190,285  119,915  115,030  1101145  1051260  190.285  119,915  1155030  no1145  105.260  190,285
Net Benefits                 3,000   (162,625)  68,415   80,965   80,965   74,690   68,415   62,140  (11,725)  80,965   74,690   68,415   62,140  (11,725)  80,965   74,690   68,415   62,140   22,075
Increnental Net Benefits         -   (165,625)  65,415    77,965   77,965   71.690   65,415   59,140  (14,725)  77,965   71,690   65,415   59,140  (14,725)  77,965   71,690   65,415   59,140   19,075
Internal Rate of Retrn ' 42%1
Switching Value of Critical Variables
Variable                 SwitchinP Value
Sugar cane price               -23%
Total operating costs         +38%2
mx
a/ Represents the salvage value of the machinery (ass-med a linear depreciation over sim years) .                                                                                                                                        ,
b/ Costs for subsoiliug, fencing, machinery, planting operations (including labor), seedcne.
and herbicide powder are repeated in Years 8, 14 and 20.
Source: Mission.
March 21', 1980



RONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CR00IT PROJECT
Soasroee Envensement Model: 100-ho Plontation
Cash Flow Pro1ectitn (for a 20-member aooper-tiv-)
Without   ------------------------------------------------------------------                                    Withi5S  Project---------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~~~~
C.eh Inflow                              Project   Year 1           2          3         4          5          6          7          0          9         10         11         12         13       14           15         16         17        10         19         20
Total solon                              3,000        -     170,560   200,880   200,000   189,720   178,560   167,400   178,560   200,880   200,880    189,720   178,560    167,400  178,560    200,880   200,880   189,720  178,560   167,400   178,560
Reesidol v-le                                                                                                                                     -                                                                                                              33,00
Benefitiary's cash contribotio-
SobloeR - long tem                         -     146,362
Shortt-term working capital                -      11,781         -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -           -         -           -          -          -        -          - 
Total Conh Inflow                        3,000   158,143   178,560   200,880   200,800   109,720   170,560   167,400   178,560   200,000   200,000   109,720   170,560   167,400  178,560    200,880   200,880   189,720  178,560   167,400   212,360
Cash Outflow
Cask lnestmant coats                       -     146,362         -         -           -         -          -          -       81,396        -          -          -          -          -     81,396          -          -          -         -          -      81,396
Cash npatting cos                                            71,845    78,115    78.115    74,9800    71.045    68.710    7,84            70115    78,15    7 8           7845    68.,710   71.845          78,115    78,115    74.980   71.845    68,710    710845
Total Cash   lowfloc                       -     146,362    71,845    78,115    78,115    74,980    71,845    68,710   055,241    78,115    78,115    74,980    71,845    68,710  153,241                   78,115     78,115    74,980   71,845       68,710   153,241
Balance Before Dokbt Stnice                 3,000    11,701   106,715   122,765   122,765   114,740   106,715    98,690           25,319   122,765   122,765   114,740   106,715    98,690   25,319    122,765   122,765   114,740  106,715    98,690    59,119
Debt Se-ice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t-
Long trer: prionipal                       -          -          _          _      24,394    24,394    24,394    24,394    24,394    24,392
int-ret a/                     -      10,245    20,491    20,491    20,491    17,076    13,660    10,245            6,830      3,415        -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -         _          _          _
Short tetr:  prtnclpel                     _          _      10,245                                                                          -          -          -          -          -               -
inte,est- /                                     1 -  1_649    -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -                                             _   _    _ _
Totol Dabt Service                         -       10,245    32,385    20,491    44,885    41,470    38,054    34,639    31,224    27,807
Csoh Balooc  Aftie  Debt Service            3,000      1,536    74,330   102,274    77,880    73,270    68,661    64,051    (5,905)   94,958   122,765   114,740   106,715    98,690   25,319    122,765   122,765   114,740  106,715    98,690    59,119
Family con-tibotion in labor or kind:
I-nvotment cosin b/                        -       16,262        -          -          -         -          -          -        9,044        -          -          -          -          -       9,044         -          -          -         -          -        9,044
Operoting costs                           _           -       38.300    41,800    41.800    40.050    38,300    36,550    28,000    41,800    41,800    40,050    38.300    36.550   28,000                 41.000    41.800    40.050   38,300    36.550    280000
Total                                              16,262    30,300    41,000    41,000    40,050    30,300    36,550    17,044    41,000    41,800    40,050    38,300    36,550   37,044                  41,800    41,800    40,050   38,300    36,550    37,044
a/ 12 interest p...
b/ 10% of total investment cosit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a I,
Sounce: 2Ii 1,0n.
Mnrth 21, 1900



HONDURAS
SECOND A4RICULCUORAL CRED1T PROJECT
S.o.rca - lovarto..t Liodal: 100-ha Ularcatio-
Casl Flow  Pro-ji-tLo   (iodep-odror farmor)
(lo-pira..)
Wi t1-ou    --------- ----------- -------- -------- ---------- -------------------_------------- --------- -------wi th P-ojet ------- --- ------ --- --- --------- - ---------- - ---- ------- ------- ---------------- ------_----------
Cash Irh-ow                               Project   Yea1               2          2           4          5                     7          8           9         10         1l          12         13         14          18
Total sales                                3,000        -      178,560    200,880   200,880   109,720    170,560    167,400   178,460   200,880    200,800    189,720    178,560   161,400  178,560                 200,880   200,080      189,720  17R,560    167,400   178,560
Residoal ralco                               -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -         -            -          -           -         -           -       33,800
Oeneolclaay's trail, roorrlborloo a/         -       32 525                                                                           8,088        -           -          -          -           -      1,08                                                                 18,088
Soblo.o  - loag taco                         -      130,100
Short-tear  working capItol                  -       10,806         -          _                                                        -
Total Caoh IUifwo                          3,000   173,431   178,560   200,880   200,880    189,720    178,560   167,400   196,648   200,880   200,880   189,720    178,560    167,400  196,648                     200,880   200,880   189,720  178,560    167,400   230,448
Cash Outflow
CsarS  lover emeo  costa -t                  -      162,625         -          -           -          -          -           -                                                                          90,440                                                                90,440
Cssh op-rating coots                                     -     110 145    119.012    119.915   115_030   j110jQ5       _10,10        9.045   110,915   119 915         L5_5030   110_45   105_260    99.845    15 030                                    _143        260    99.845
Total Cash OctUlor                           -      162,625   110,145    119,915   119,915    115,030    110,145   105,260    190,285    119,915    119,915   115,030    110,145    105,260  190,285                119,915    119,915    115,030  110,145    105,260   190,285
Ralarro Befora lDbE S-rvica                   3,000     10,806      60,415     80,965      80,965     24,690    68,415       62,140      6,363     80,965      80,965     74,690    68,415       62,140      6,363      80,965      80,965     74,690   68,415       62,140    40,163        t
Saha trscvice
Log tem   paloclpal                          -8-214-  21,683    21 683                                        21 683    21 683    21,683    21, 0y5
latereer hi          -        9,100~~            ~ 18216 1,1   18,214     15.178      12,143      9, 1007    4022        3,0135        -          ---                              ----                                          --
Shoalct -a:  pai-ipal                        -          -       10,806         -           -          -          -           -          -          -
socarror h/                  _          _          1.513         -          -       ,.z- -                          -          -          -                                                  -
Torat  Debt Servica                          -        9,107     30,533      18,214     39,897    36,861       33,826     30,790      27,755    24,728          -          -           -          -          -            -          -           -
Cash Balante After Debt S-rvIce               3,000       1,699     37,882     62,751    41,068    37,829        341589    31,350    (21,392)   56,245         80,965      74,690    68,415       62,140    6,363        80,965     80,965      74,690    68,415      62,140    40,163
Family cor-iboti-t in lobor or kind
I -vasent  o                                 -          -           -          -
Op-ratig costs-
Total                                        -          -           -                                                                   -          ----                                                                                           
a! 20 of total i arseat corsts
h/ 19 inearastE pa.o
Iocac, Diction
Mar-h 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rice Investment Model: 50-ha Irrigated Plantation
Investment Costs
Unit             No. of                                                      Foreign               Foreign                Foreign
Investment Item                      Unit               Cost             Units                     Investment                        Exchange              Exchange               Exchange
(L)                 _                (L)               (US$)                   (%)                    (L)                  (US$)_
1) Land Development
Tree clearing                           ha                 275                50              13,750              6,875                  40                     5,500                  2,750
Rooting and clearing                    ha                  65                50               3,250              1,625                   10                      325                    163
Heavy disking                           ha                  40                50               2,000              1,000                   50                    1,000                    500
Survey and design of irrig.system    ha                    120                50               6,000              3,000                  10                       600                    300
Levelling                               ha                 150                50               7,500              3,750                   50                    3,750                  1,875
2) Infrastructure
Roads                                   km               3,000                 3               9,000              4,500                  40                     3,600                  1,800
Main canal                              km               4,000                 2               8,000              4,000                  40                     3,200                  1,600
Dikes, canal laterals,
headgates and drains                    ha                 180                50               9,000              4,500                   50                    4,500                  2,250
Pump installation                       each             3,000                 1               3,000              1,500                  20                       600                    300
3) Constructions                                                                                                                                                                                       w
Storehouse                              No.              2,500                 1               2,500              1,250                  30                       750                    375
Pumphouse                               No.                500                 1                 500                250                  30                       150                     75
4) Machinery
Tractor a/                              No.             27,000                 1              27,000             13,500                  75                    20,250                10,125
Heavy plowing disk                      No.              8,000                 1               8,000              4,000                  80                     6,400                 3,200
Levelling disk b/                       No.              3,500                 1               3,500              1,750                  80                     2,800                 1,400
Border disk c/                          No.              2,000                 1               2,000              1,000                  80                     1,600                    800
Cage wheels d/                          No.              2,000                 1               2,000              1,000                  80                     1,600                    800
Trailer                                 No.              3,000                 1               3,000              1,500                  50                     1,500                    750
Fertilizer spreader e/                  No.              2,000                 1               2,000              1,000                  80                     1,600                    800
Low lift pump f/                        No.             30,000                 1              30,000             15,000                  80                    24,000                12,000
Motorized knapsack sprayer              No.                600                 2               1,200                600                  80                       960                   480
Handseed spinner ./                     No.                100                 1                 100                 50                  80                        80                    40
Total Investment Cost                                                                           143,300             71,650                   59                   84,765                42,383         a,
(Family labor)                                                                                   (3,970)            (1,985)                 (-)                       C-)                    C-)
a/ 77-hp diesel tractor.
bJ 28 disks.
c/ 6 disks.
d/ To be used on flooded land.
e/ Oscillating distribution.
f/ 60-hp 2,500 g.p.m.
/ For manual use on bare patches-
Sollrce, Mission.
March 21, 1980



- 74 -                                                      ANNX 2
Table 16
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rice Investment Model:  50-ha Irrigated Plantation
Sales and Operating Costs
(lempiras)
Cost per
Without       Crop Cycle         End of                Year
Item                                       Project    (kMnpiras/ha)           1            2            3            4-20
Rice production per crop cycle (aetric ton)                                                    3.6          3.6           3.8          4.,
An:sual rice production (metric ton)-/                                                       180          36o           380          400
Sales -                                                     1,500                         88,380      176,760      186,580      196 ,'.n
Operating Costa
Labor
Tractor driver-                              d/          -               8.5           425           850          850          850
Unskilled, related to tractor operations -               -               0.9            45            90           90           90
Unskilled, for hand weedinge/                            -              25           1,250        2,500         2,500        2,500
Unskilled, for bird-scaring                              -               5             250           500          500          500
Unskilled, for irrigation6,ystem maintenance -i          -              15             750        1,500         1,500        1,500
Unskilled, for irrigation-                               -              25           1,250        2,500         2,500        2,500
Fuel and Lubricants
Tractor oper tions/-                                                    20.5         1,025         2,050        2,050        2,050
Irrigation 1                                                           118.8         5,940       li,880       11,880        11,880
Maintenance of Tractor and Equipment                          -               17.1           855        1,710        1,710        1,710
Services
Aerial top dressing applicacion/                         -              16             800         1,600        1,600        1,600
Aerial herbicide application!/                           -              10              500        1,000        1,000        1,000
Aerial fngiide application-m/                            -              30            1,500        3,000        3,000        3,000
Aerial insecticide application/                          _              17              850        1,700        1,700        1,700
Harvesting/               p/                                          223,2         11,160       22,320       23,5ED       24,801
on-farm transport of rice                                -               9             450           900          950        1,000
InputsRice seed I/                                            -             126.0          6,300       12,600       12,600       12,600
Fertilizer - compound                                   -              84.0         4,200         8,400        8,400        8,400
- ammonium sulphater/                       -             127.5         6,375        12,750       12,750       12,750
Herbicide-/                                             -               24.5         1,225        2,450        2,450        2,450
Fungicide   liquid t/                    ~~~-            35.7          1,785        3,570        3,570        3,570
Fungicide - 7iqoid                                      -              48.0          2,400        4,800        4,800        4,800
l-secticide-/                                           -              88.0         4,400        8,800         8,800        8,800
Sacksv-/                                                -              86.4         4,320         8,640        9,120        9,600
Total Operating Cost                                                                      58,055      116,110       117,880      119,650
(Family labor)                                                                             (3,970)      (7,940)      (7,940)      (7,940)
a/  One crep in Year I, twu in the following years.
1T  L 491/m ton on farmgate price for rice that is not dried or cleaned.
cl L l/hour.
69 Laborer ti assist with loading seed and fertilizer.
e/ Five man-days at L 5/day.
T/  Two mae-days at L 2.5/day.
j/  Three man-days at L 5/day.
hi  Five man-days at L 5/day.
6/  Tractor operations consist of plowing and disking, drilling seed and fertilizing.
j/  Forty hours of irrigation.
k/ Two aerial applications/ha at L 8.0 each.
O/ One aerial application/ha at L 10.0 each.
m/ Three aerial sprayings/ha at L 10.0 each.
n// Two aerial sprayings/ha at L 8.50/each.
o/ Harvesting is done by contract at L 62/m ton.
2/  By contract at L 2.5/m ton.
_q  140 kgtha at L 9/kg.
r// Compound 140 kg/ha at L 6/kg and 375 kg/ha of ammonium sulphate at L 34/kg.
s/  Propanil, 3.2 lt/ha at L 7.65/lt.
t// Kasumin, 3.0 lIt/ha at L 16.0/lt and 4.2 kg/ha of Dithane at L 8.50/kg.
u/  Orthene, 2.0 kg/ha at L 44.0/kg.
v/  L 1.20 per 50 kg sack.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rice Investment Model: 50-ha Irrigated Plantation
Cost-Benefit Analysis and Financial Rate of Return
(lempiras)
With Project
Without
Project            Year 1            2               3             4-7              8              9-14            15            16-19            20
Benefits
Sales                                         1,500              88,380         176,760        186,580         196,400        196,400         196,400         196,400         196,400         196,400
Residual value a/-                                                     -              -               -              -               -               -               -               -         11257
Total Benefits                                1,500              88,380         176,760        186,580         196,400         196,400        196,400         196,400         196,400         207,657
Costs
Investments                                        -            143,300               -               -              -          78,800               -         78,800                -               -
Total operating costs                              _58,055                      16,110         117,880         119650          119650         119119650                                       119,650
Total Costs                                        -            201,355         116,110        117,880         119,650         198,450        119,650         198,450         119,650         119,650
Net Benefits
Total Benefits                                1,500              88,380         176,760        186,580         196,400         196,400        196,400         196,400         196,400         207,657
Total Costs                                        -            201,355         116,110        117,880         119,650        196,450         119,650         198,450         119,650         119,650
Net Benefits                                  1,500            (112,975)         60,650         68,700          76,750          (2,050)        76,750          (2,050)         76,750          88,007
Incremental Net Benefits                           -           (114,475)         59,150         67,200          75,250          (3,550)        75,250          (3,550)         75,250          86,507
Internal Rate of Return   58%
Switching Value of Critical Variables
Variables              Switching Value                                                                               k g
Rice price                  -26%                                                                                     -'4
Total operating costs    +41%
a/ Salvage value of machinery.
Source: Kission.
March 21) 1980



IIONDUkAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Rice Investment Model: 50-ha Irrigated Plantation
Cash Flow Projection  (for a 10-aember cooperative)
(lempi ras)
Without   ------------------------------------------------------With Project---------
Cash Inflow                                            Project   Year 1    _        2           3          4           5          6           7           8           9        10-14        15         16-19        20
Total sales                                          1,500     88,380    176,760    186,580    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400
Residual value                                         -           -          -           -           -          -           -                      -           -           -           -          -        01,257
Beneficiary's cash contributiobi                                                                                       -           -                                                                           -
S,bhloan - long term                                   -      128,970
Short-term working capital                             -           -           -         _          _           _            -         _            -           -           -         _                        -
Total Cash Inflow                                    1,500    217,350    176,760    186,580    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    196,400    207,657
Cash Outflow
Cash investment costs                                  -      128,970          -          -           -          -           -           -       70,920         -           -       70,920         -           -
Cash operating costs                                   -                     08,17    0 109,940   111,710    111,71            0    111,710    111710    111,710                   111,710    111,710    111,710
Total Cash Outflow                                     -      183,055    108,170    109.940   111,710    111,710   111,710   111,710    182,630    111,710    111,710    182,630    111,710    111,710
Balance Before Il)ebt Service                              1,500     34,291      68,590     76,640      84,690      84,690     84,690      84,690     13,770      84,690      84,690      13,770      84,690     95,947
Debt Service
Long term:  principal                                  -           -          -           -       21,495      21,495     21,495      21.495      21,495      21,495         -           -           -          -
interest a/                              -        9,028      18,056      18,056     18,056      15,047      12,037      9,028       6,019      3,009          -
Short tern:  principal                                 -           -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -
interests -z                                         -         -           -          -           -           -       _-             -           -          _           _          _           _
Total Debt Service                                     -        9,028      18,056      18,056     39,551      36,542     33,532      30,523      27,514     24,504          -           -          -           -
Cash Balance After Debt Service                            1,500     25,267     50,534      58,584      45,139     48,148      51,158     54,167    (13,744)   60,186         84,690      13,770     84,690      95,947
Family contribution in lahor or kind
Investment costs b/                                    -       14,330         -           -           -          -           -          -         7,880         -           -        7,880         -           -
Operating costs                                        -         3,970      7,940       7,940      7,940       7,940       7,940      7,940       7,940       7,940      7,940       7,940       7,940       7,940
Total                                                  -       18,300       7,940       7,940      7,940       7,940      7,940       7,940     15,820        7,940      7,940      15,820       7,940       7,940
a/ 14.% interest p.a.
b/ 1070 of total investment costs.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rice Investment Model: 50-ha Irrigation Plantation
Cash Flow Projection (independent farmer)
(lempiras)
Without ------------------------------------------------------With Project----------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow                                          Project   Year 1            2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9         10-14       15        16-19        20
Total sales                                        1,500    88,380   176,760   186,580   196,400   196,400   196,400   196,400   196,400    196,400   196,400   196,400   196,400   196,400
Residual value                                       -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -           -          -       11,257
Beneficiary's cash contribution a/                   -       28,660        -           -          -          -          -          -       15,760         -          -       15,760         -          -
Subloan - long term                                  -      114,640                                          -                                      -                            -          -
Short-term  working capital                          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          - -  -                                        -          - _        -
Total Cash Inflow                                  1,500   231,680   176,760   186,580   196,400   196,400   196,400   196,400   212,160    196,400   196,400   212,160   196,400   207,657
Cash Outflow
Cash investment costs                                -      143,300        -          -           -          -          -          -       78,800         -          -       78,800         -          -
Cash operating costs                                 -       58,055   116,110   117,880   119,650   119650   119650   119.650   119.650   119,650   119,650   119.650   119,650    119,650
Total Cash Outflow                                   -      201,355   116,110   117,880   119,650   119,650   119,650   119,650    198,450    119,650   119,650   198,450   119,650   119,650   <
Balance Before Debt Service                             1,500    30,325    60,650    68,700    76,750    76,750    76,750    76,750              13,710     76,750      76,750     13,710     76,750      88,007
Debt Service
Long term:  principal                                -          -           -          -      19,106    19,106    19,ln6        19,106    19,106       19,110        -           -          -          -
interest b/                             -        8,025    16,050    16,050    16,050    13,375    10,700            8,025      5,350      2,675         -
Short term:  principal                                     -          -          -                     -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -
interest b/                                                                              -          -
Total Debt Service                                   -        8,025    16,050    16,050    35,156    32,481          29,806     27,131     24,456    21,785          -           -
Cash Balance After Debt Service                         1,500    22,300    44,600    52,650    42,594    44,269    46,944    49,619    (10,746)   54,965                76,750     13,710     76,750     88,007
Family Contribution in labor or kind
Investment costs                                     -          -          -           -          -                                                                                                             M
Operating costs                                      -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -                                                                            A
Total                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
a/ 207 of total investment costs.
b/ 14/ interest p.a.
Source: Mission.
March i1, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Investment Model: 100-ha Dual-purpose Cattle Enterprise
Investment Costs
Unit                                                                        Foreign      Foreign      Foreign
Cost       No. of               Year                     Total              Exchange    Exchange    Exchange
Investment Item                                          Unit          (L)        Units           1            2         (L)          (US$)       _               (L)         (US$)
------(L)----
I)  Infrastructure and Buildings
Well                                                  No.         2,000          1          2,000          -          2,000        1,000            40          800          400
Corral and manger                                     No.         1,000          1          1,000          -          1,000          500           40           400          200
Feeder                                                No.         1,000          1            -          1,000       f,OiO           500           40           400          200
Sub-total                                                                             3,000         1,000       4,000         2,000           40        1,600          800
2)  Equipment
Water tank                                            No.         1,000          1          1,000          -          1,000          500            40          400          200    -
Pump and motor                                        No.         1,000          1          1,000                     1,OUO          500           40           800          400     m
Piping                                                Km          1,000          1          1,000          -          1,000          500           50           500          250
Cane chopper and motor                                No.         6,000          1            -          6,000        6,00         3,000           80        4,800         2,400
Artificial insemination equipment                     No.         1,000          1            -          1,OOC        1,000          500            80          800          400
Sub-total                                                                            3,000         7,000       10,000        5,000            73        7,300        3,650
3)  Pastures and fencing
New pastures                                          ha            250         36          4,500        4,500        9,000        4,500           50        4,500         2,250
Renovation of pasture                                 ha            100         20          2,000          -          2,000        1,000           40           800          400
Sugar cane                                            ha            500          4          1,000        1,000        2,000        1,000           50        1,000           500
New fencing                                           Km          1,000          6          3,000        3000         63,000                       50        3,000         1,500
Sub-total                                                                            10,500        8,500       19,000        9,500            49        9,300        4,650
4)  Animals
Bulls                                                 No.         2,500          2          2,500        2,500        5,000        2,500          -            -             -
Heifers (first calf)                                  No.           750         15          6,000        5,250       11,250        5,625          -
Heifers                                               No.           500         10          2,500        22500        5,000        2,500                 -            -
Sub-total                                                                            11,000       10,250       21,250       10,624
Total Investment Cost                                                                      27,500       26,750       54,250       27,125           34       18,200        9,100
(Family labor)                                                                             (1,000)      (1,000)      (2,000)      (1,000)          (0)      (-)             (-)
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



- 79 
79 -                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Annex 2
Tabl e 2
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAJL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Investmeat iiodal;  100-ha Doal-RurPoaX CattLe Enterprise
Herd Development Projections
Without Project                                           With Project
Year                                        _     
C a t e g o r y             Unit                           1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8       9       10       11        12-20
herd Composition (number at
the end of year)
Bulls                                            1               2        3        2                 2        2        2       2        2        2        2        2
Cows                                            45              60       77       76       s0       82       93      102    104       104      104      104      104
Heifers,2 years +                                6              11        9       14       14       23       27       20      21      21       21       21       21
Heifers, 1-2 years                              12              10       15       21       24       28       30       34     39        39       39       39       39
Weaners                                         22              32       45       51       58       63       73       82      85       85       85       85      85
Steers,1-2 years                                 6              11       15       22       15       18       15        9       -        -        -        -        -
Total number of animals                         92             126      164      186      193      216      240      249    251       251      251      251      251
Total animal units (A.U.)                       77             105      134      152      154      174      191      194    194       194      194      194      194
Mortality of Adult knimals (nuubler)             1               2        2        2        3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3       3
Sales (numberS
Bulls, cull                                      _              _         _        I
Cows, Cull                                       4               4        5        9        9       11       11       16      17      19       19        19       19
Heifers, 2 years +                               5               -        -        -        6        -        -        9      12      17       17         17       17
Weaned calves                                    -               -        -        -       10       10       15       27     40       42       42         42       42
Steers, 1-2 years                                6               6       11       15       21       14       17       15      9                  -                  -
Total sales                                     15              10       16       25       46       35       44      67      79       78       79        79       79
Purchases (number)
Bulls                                                            1        1        -        -        _        1       -        1       -         1         1        1
Heifer. (first-calf)                             -               8        7
Heifers, 2 years I                               -               5        5
Total Purchases                                  -              14       13        -        -       -         I      -                 -        1          1        1
Production Data
Ertraction rate                                  14              7        9       12       19       14       15     21       24       24       24        24,      24
Weanin.g.xare     .                              44             49       54       59       64       66       68     68       69       68       68   - 68           68
loanlitny rault                    %              2              2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2        2        2         2        2
Cow culling rate                  %               8              8        9       10       10       12       12     13       15       16       16         16      16
Area of pasture                   ha             98             98       98       98       98      98       98      98       98       98       98        98       98
Carrying capacity                A.U/ha           0.7            1.1      1.50    1.54-/  1.54       1.54    1.54   1.54      1.54    1.54      1.54       1.54     1.54
Total capacity                    A_.U           69            108      147      151   o/ 151    151        151    151      151      151      151       151      151
Cows milked                       no.            22             32       45       51       58       63       73     82       85       85       85        85       85
Production/cow                    liter/day,    3.0              3.5      3.5      3.5      3.8      3.8      3.8    3.8       3.8      3.8     3.8        3.8      3.8
Lactation                         day           210            220      220      220       230    230    210       230      230      230      230       230      230
Production/cow/lactation          liter        630            770      770      770       874    974       874    874       874      874      874       874      874
Total milk value                  L'000           3.88           6.90   10.05   11.39    14.70  15.97   18.50  20.78   21.54   21.54   21.54              21.54   21.54
Home milk consumption             liter         365           730       730      730       730    730   1,095  1,095   1,095   1,095   1,095          1,095   1,095
Home milk consumption value    L'000              0.10           0.21    0.21      0.21      0.21   0.21      0.32   0.32    0.32       0.32    0.32       0.32    0.32
Net milk sales                    Liter    13,495          23,910  33,920  38,540   49,960 54,330  62,705 70,575  73,195  73,195  73,195   73,195  73,195
Net milk sales                    Lfoo0           3.78           6.69    9.84   11.18    14.49  15.76   18.18  20.46   21.22   21.22   21.22    21.22   21.22
Net cattle sales                  LOOO           5.52           3.02    4.83      7.85    14.30   9.82   12.45  19.98   23.50   23.76   24.36    24.36   24.36
Total net sales                   L'OOO           9.30           9.96   14.67   19.03       28.03  28.79   25.58  30.67   40.44   44.72   44.98    45.58   45.58
al Not including 4 ha of sugarcane to sup  .g,,ent feeding in Ary seaeon us to 40 A.U. per year.
Note:  An animal unit in Honduras is estimated to be a weaned calf or any older animal.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Investment Model:  100-ha Dual-purpose Cattle Enterprise
Gross Production Value Proiect-ons
Without Project                                                                         Mdith Project
Years
Category                             Unit                         1            2            3            4             5            6            7            8             9           10           11         12.20
Cattle Sales
Cull bulls                         No.            -            -             -              1          -            -               1          -            -            -             -            -
Cull bulls                       L'OOO            -            -             -              0.6        -            -               0.6        -            -            _             _            -
Cull cows                          No.              4            4             5            9            9           11            11          lr            17           19            19           19            19
Cull cows                         L'OOO             1.22          1.22         1.53         2.75         2.75         3.37          3.37         4.90         5.2U          5.81         5.81         5.81          5.81
Heifers,2 years +                  No.              5          -             -            -              6          -             -              9           12            17           17           17            17
Heifers, 2 years +                L-'O0             2.50       -             -            -              3.00       -             -              4.50         6.00          8.50         8.50         8.50          8.50
Weaned calves                      No.            -            -            _             _             10            10           15           27           40           42            42           42            42
Weaned calves                     L'OOO           -            -             _            _              2.25          2.25         3.38         6.08         9.00          9.45         9.45         9.45          9.45
Steers,1-2 years                   No.              6            6            11           15           21           14            17           15            9
Steers, 1-2 years                L'OOO              1.80         1.8U          3.30         4.50         6.30         4.20          5.10         4.50         2.70
Cattle Production
Number                               -             15           10            16           25           46           35           44            67           78           78            78           78            78       8
Value                             L'OOO             5.52         3.02          4.83         7.85        14.30          9.82        12.45        19.98        22.90         23.76        23.76        23.76         23.76
Milk Production
Volnme                          '000 liter         13.86        24.64         34.65        39.27        50.69        55.06         63.80        71.67        74.29         74.29        74.29        74.29         74.29
Value                             L'OOO             3.88         7.15         10.05        11.39        14.70        15.97         18.50        20.78        21.54         21.54        21.54        21,54         21.54
Total Production Value            L'OOO             9.40        10.17         14.88        19.24        29.00        25.79         30.95        40.76        44.44        45.30         45.30        45.30        45.30
Indicators
Liveweight of cattle produced    'g                 4.211        2.736        4.295         7.076       11.851        8.949        11.269       16.884       19.737       19.496        20.041       20.041        20.74
Estimated beef production
(carcass wt on rail)            kg          2,069         1,330        2,101        3,454        5,842        4,372         5,532        8,294        9,502        9,572         9,619        9,619         9,619
Beef produced per ha
(carcass wt on rail)          ag/ha             21.11        13.57        21.44        35.24         59.61        44.61        56.45        84.63         96.96        97.67        98.15         98.16        98.15
Milk produced                  liter/ha           141.42       251.42       353.57        400.71       517.24       561.83       651.02        731.32       758.06       758.06        758.06       758,06       758.06
Beef farmgate price                L/kg             2.66         2.27          2.29         2.27         2.44         2.24          2.25         2.40         2.41         2.48          2.47         2.47          2.47
a/ Calculated as the ratio between value of cattle production and estimated beef production.
Source:  Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRIC&LTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Investment Model: 100-ha Dual-purpome Captle Enterprise
Sales and Operating Costs
Without                                                       With Project
Unit      Project       Year 1          2            3            4            5            6            7            8             9         1O-2u
Production
Beef (carcass on rail)                      kg/ha         21.11        13.57        21.44       35.24        59.61        44.61        56.45        84.63        96.96         97.67        98.15
Beef production a/                          kg        2,069        1,330        2,101        3,454        5,842        4,372        5,532        8,294        9,502        9,572        9,619
Beef farmgate price                          L/kg          2.66         2.27         2.29         2.27        2.44          2.24        2.25         2.40          2.41         2.48         2.47
Beef value of sales b/                      12,000         5.52         3.02        4.83         7.85        14.30         9.82        12.45        19.98        22.90         23.76        23.76
Milk                                    liter/ha         141.40       251.40      353.57       400.71       517.24       561.83       651.02       731.32       758.06       758.06        758.06
Milk production                         '000 liter        13.86        24.64        34.65       39.27        50.69        55.06        63.80        71.67        74.29         74.29        74.29
Milk farmgate price                          L/liter       0.28         0.29         0.29        0.29         0.29         0.29         0.29         0.29         0.29          0.29         0.29
Milk value of production                    L'000          3.88         7.15        10.05       11.39        14.70        15.97        18.50        20.78         21.54        21.54        21.54
Milk on-farm consumption (per family)    L'000             0.10         0.21         0.21        0.21         0.21         0.21         0.32         0.32          0.32         0.32         0.32
Milk value of sales
Independent farmer                      L'000          3.78         6.94         9.84        11.18        14.49        15.76        18.18        20.46        21.22        21.22        21.22
Cooperative (4 families)                 L'OOO          3.48        6.31          9.21       10.55        13.86        15.13        17.22        19.50        20.26         20.26        20.26    c
Total Net Sales
Independent farmer                      L'00            9.30        9.96        14.67        19.03        28.79        25.58        30.63        40.44        44.12        44.98        44.98
Cooperative (4 families)                L'000           9.00         9.33       14.04        18.40        28.16        24.95        29.64        39.48        43.16        44.02        44.02
Operating Costs
Labor                                       L'000          2.63         3.41        4.89         5.33         6.11         6.83         6.83         6.83          6.83         6.83         6.83
Maintenance of fences & water facilities L'000             0.24         0.88         0.88        0.88         0.88         0.88         0.88         0.88          0.88         0.88         0.88
Fuel and lubricants                         L'OOO          -            0.23         0.43        0.43         0.43         0.43         0.43         0.43          0.43         0.43         0.43
Animal health                               L'000          0.47         1.68         2.14         2.43         2.46         2.78        3.06         3.10          3.10         3.10         3.10
Feed supplements                            L'OOO          0.13         0.42         0.59        0.67         0.76         0.83         0.96         1.08          1.12         1.12         1.12
Replacement value for bulls                 L'000          0.60         -            -           0.80         0.80         0.80         0.80         0.80          0.80         0.80         0.80
Artificial insemination                     L'000          -            -            -            0.54         0.63         0.63        0.63          0.72         0.90         0.90         0.90
Land tax                                    L'000          0.09         0.13         0.13        0.13         0.13         0.13         0.13         0.13          0.13         0.13         0.13
Total Operating Costs                            L'OO0          4.16         6.75         9.06        11.21        12.20        13.31        13.72        13.97        14.19        14.19        14.19
(Family labor) c/                               L'OOO          (2.63)       (3.41)       (4.89)      (5.33)        (6.11)      (6.83)       (6.83)       (6.83)        (6.83)       (6.83)       (6.83)    ?
_/ The productive area is 98 ha.
b/ There is no on-farm beef consumption.
c/ Family labor is provided only in the cooperative case.
Source: Mission.
March 21, '1980



HONDURAS
SECOND ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Investment Model: 100-ha Dual-purpose Cattle Enterprise
Cost-Benefit Analysis and Financial Rate of Return
(lem-piras)
With Project
Without
reoieLt   Year 1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9      10       11      12       13      14      15       16      17       18      19       20
Benefits
Production                     9,400     10,170  14,880  19,240  29,000  25,790  30,920  40,760  45,040  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45.300  45,300  45,300  45.300  45,300   45,300
Residualvalue                      -          -                                                                                 - -  -  -  -  -  -  -         _ -      _ -  -  -  -  -               -
Total Benefits                 9,400     10,170  14,880  19,240  29,000  25,790  30,920  40,760  45,040  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  112.270
Cost
Investments .                            27,500  26,750        -       -        -       -        -       -  18,000       -        -       -        -       -        -  18,000        -       -        -        -
Total operatig c.st.s         4.160       6,750   9,060  11_210  12200  13,310  13720  13,970 1                 14,190  14,190  14.190 14,190  14_      ,190  14190  14,190  14,190  1          9 4.190 o ,
Total Costa                    4,160     34,250  35,810  11,210  12,200  13,310  13,720  13,970  14,190  32,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  32,190  14,190  14,190  14,190   14,190
Net Benefits
Total Benefits                 9,400     10,170  14,880  19,240  29,000  25,790  30,920  40,760  45,040  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  45,300  112,270
Total Costs                    4,160     34,250  35,810  11,210  12,200  13,310  13,720  13,970  14,190  32,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  14,190  32,190  14,190  14,190  14,190   14,190
Net Benefits                   5,240    (24,080)(20,930)  8,030  16,800  12,480  17,200  26,790  30,850  13,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110  31,110   98,080
Uscreneotal Net Benefits                (29,320)(26,170)  2,790  11,560   7,240  11,960  21,550  25,610   7,870  25,870  25,870  25,870  25,870  25,870  25,870   3,230  25,870  25,870  25,870   92,840
Internal Rote of Rcturn    231.
Switching Value of Critical Variables
Variable               Switching Value
Milk price                - 71.
Beef price                -80.
Total operating costs    +115%!.
a/ Represents the increnental herd value.
b/ Costs for cane chopper and motor, artificial insemination equipment, new pastures and s.,gaecaoe are repeated in Years 9 and 16.
Source: Mission.
Matrh '1, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock luvestment Model:  100-ha Dual-purpose Cattle Enterprise
Cash Flow Projection (for a four-member cooperative)
(lempi ras)
Without   -----------------------------------------------------With Project------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow                               Project   Year 1           2          3          4          5         6          7          8          9        10-15       16       17-19       20
Total sales                               9,000      9,330    14,040    18,400    28,160    24,950    29,640    39,480    43,160    44,020    44,020    44,020    44,020    44,020
Residual value (herd increment)              -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -       66,970
Beneficiary's cash contribution              -         -          -          -          _         _          _          _          _          _          _         _          _          _
Subloan - long term                          -      24,750    24,075
Short-term working capital                   _    -               - _       _           _         _         _           _         _           _          _         _          _
Total Cash Inflow                         9,000    34,080    38,115    18,400    28,160    24,950    29,640    39,480    43,160    44,020    44,020    44,020    44,020   110,990
Cash Outflow
Cash investment costs                        -      24,750    24,075         -          -         -          -          -          -      16,200         -      16,200        -          -
Cash operating costs                      1,530      3,340      4.170      5,880     6.090      6.480      6.890      7.140      7,360     7.360      7.360      7.360      7.360      7.360
Total Cash Outflow                        1,530    28,090    28,245        5,880     6,090      6,480      6,890      7,140      7,360    23,560      7,360    23,560       7,360      7,360
Balance Before Debt Service                   7,470     5,990      9,870    12,520    22,070    18,470    22,750    32,340    35,800    20,460    36.660    20,460    36,660   103,630
Debt Service
Long term:  principal                        -         -          -          -       4,069      4,069      4,069    12,206    12,206    12,206           -
interest a/                     -       1,732      5,150      6,835     6,835      6,266      5,266      5,1l6     3,417      1,708         -          -          -         -
Short term:  principal                                                 -          -          -          -          -               -               -          -          -
interest a/                    -         -          -          -         -          -          -                    -                  _             - -                  -
Total Debt Service                           -       1,732      5,150     6,835    10,904    10,335        9,335    17,312    15,623    13,914           -         -
Cash Balance after Debt Service              7,470      4,258      4,720     5,685    11,166       8,135    13,395    15,008    20,177        6,546     36,660    20,460    36,660   103,630
Farm Consumption                               400        840        840        840        840       840      1,280      1,280      1,280      1,280     1,280      1,280      1,280      1,280
Family contribution in labor or kind
Investment costs b/                         -        2,750      2,675        -         -          -          -          -          -       1,800        -        1,800        -          -
Operating costs                           2,630      3,410      4,890     5,330      6,110      6,830      6,830      6,830     6,830      6,830      6,830      6,830      6,830      6,830
Total                                     2,630      7,160      7,565     5,330      6,110      6,830      6,830      6,830     6,830      8,630      6,830      8,630      6,830      6,830
a/ 14% interest p.a.
b/ 107. of total investment costs.
m >a
Source:  Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Investment Model: 100-ha Dual-purpose Cattle Enterprise
Cash Flow Projection (independent farmer)
(lempiras)
Without -     _-- _______- --------------------------------------With Project--------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow                                           Project   Year 1            2         3           4          5          6          7          8          9        10-15      16        17-19        20
Total sales                                         9,300      9,960    14,670   19,030        28,790    25,580    30,630    40,440    44,120    44,980    44,980   44,980    44,980    44,980
Residual value (herd increment)                        -          -                    -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -       66,970
Beneficiary's cash contribhtion a/                     -       5,500      5,350       -            -          -          -          -          -       3,600         -       3,600
Subloan - long term                                   -       22,000    21,400         -           -         _          _           _         _           _          _         _
Short- term working capital                            -         _          -          -           -          -         _          _          _
Total Cash Inflow                                   9,300    37,460    41,420   19,030         28,790    25,580    30,630    40,440    44,120    48,580    44,980   48,580    44,980   111,950
Cash Outflow
Cash investment costs                                 -       27,500    26,750        -            -         -          -           -         -       18,000         -     18,000         -          -
Cash operating costs                                 4,160    6_750       9.06      0          12, 200    13,310    13,720    13.970           9      1          14,190   14,190    14, 190    14,190
Total Cash Outflow                                  4,160    34,250    35,810   11,210         12,200    13,310    13,720    13,970    14,190    32,190          14,190   32,190       14,190     14,190
Balance Before Debt Service                               5,140      3,210      5,610    7,820       16,590    12,270    16,910    26,470    29,930    16,390    30,790   16,390    30,790    97,760                 5
Debt Service
tong term:  principal-    -                                            -              -         2,000      2,000      2,000    12,000    12,000    13,400            -         -            
interest b/                                       1,540       4,578    6,076       6,076      5,796     5,516      5  236     3,556      1,876        _         _
Short term:  principal                                      -          -          -
interest b/                                                                                     -                     - 
Total Debt Service                                    -        1,540      4,578    6,076        8,076      7,796       7,516    17,236    15,556    15,276                     -                     -
Cash Balance After Debt Service                           5,140      1,670      1,032    1,744        8.514      4,474      9,394      9,234    14,374       1,114    30,790   16,390    30,790    97,760
Farm Consumption                                            100        210        210       210         210        210        320        320        320        320        320       320        320        320
Family contribution in labor or kind
Investment costs                                      -          -          -
Operating costs                                       _          _                    _
Total
a/ 20% of total investment costs.
b/ 14% it.terest p.a.
Source:  Mission,
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Project Administration for Banana and Plantain Development
Investment Costs
Unit            No. ot                   Investment                        Foreign              Foreign                Foreign
Investment Items                      Unit             Cost             dnits                                                      Exchange             Exchange              Exchange
______________  -   (j4           -   _               (L)              (US$)                  (                     (L)                  (US$)
1) Infrastructure
Land levelling                         m3                 1.4            175                   245               123                 50                    123                    62
Electrical, water and drainage
installation                         no.           20,000                1                20,000            10,000                 40                  8,000                4,000
Water well and tank                    no.           10,000                1                10,000             5,000                 10                   1,000                  500
Telephone installation                 no.           10,000                1                10,000             5,000                 60                  6,000                 3,000
OD
2) Constructions
Buildiigs and store                    no.          150,000                1               150,000            75,000                 60                 90,000               45,000
3) Vehicles and equipment
Vehicles (4-wheel drive)               no.           15,000                4                60,000            30,000                 80                 48,000                24,000
Motorcycles                            no.            5,000                7                35,000            i7,500                 80                 28,000                14,000
Office equipment                         -           10,000                -                10,000             5,000                 80                  8,000                4,000
Office furniture                         -           10,000                -                10,000             5,000                 30                  3,000                 1,500
Shelving for store                       -            2,000                -                 2,000                00                 10                    200                   100
Total Investment Cost                                                                         307,245           153,623                 63                192,323                96,162    a'z
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Project Administration for Banana and Plantain Development
Operating Costs
Year 1                           Years 2-20
Unit           Unit Cost          No. of Units         Cost           No. of Units         Cost
Items                                                     (L)                                   (L)                                 (L)
Staff
Project manager                   man-months           5,000                    12           60,000                 12           60,000
Accountant                              It              3,500                    12          42,000                 12           42,000
Agronomist                                              3,500                    12          42,000                 12           42,000
Engineer                               ti3,500                                  12           42,000                 12           42,000
Agriculturalists                                        1,500                    72         108,000                 72          108,000 
Field inspector                                           900                    12          10,800                 12           10,800      0%
Maintenance foreman      -                                800                    12            9,600                12             9,600
Secretary                                                 700                   12            8,400                 12            8,400
Storekeeper                                               600                   12             7,200                12             7,200
Clerks                                                    500                   60           30,000                 60           30,000
Laborers                                                  250                   24            6,000                 24            6,000
Operation and maintenanice
Office  a                                              10,000                    -            5,000 a/              -            10,000
Vehicles (4-wheel drive)                                5,200                    4           20,800                  4           20,800
(motorcycles)                                 1,040                    7            7.280                  7            7,280
Total Operating Cost                                                                          399,080                             404,080
aD
a/ 50% of a full year.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



- 87 -
iONDtO/                                                                            Table 2
SECOND AGRICULIURAL CRERDT PROJECT
Banna  Ineatanh Model:  20-ha Pj-anation
F-onign                         con, go               Porn, gn
Inecntlel  t UnitCGost  UnatE                   (L)   IonatehNnt   (                    Enchange                        Exch Ogc              0,cI-snn
1.   Land Xaieloonent
Ongina.tlngaurcnh                                    ha                     100                   200               20,000                10,000                     l0                         10,200                 SOOO
Topographic aercey                                    ha                     75                   200                00,000                7,5UV                     10                          I 00                    50
iotl s1rvev                       lla                     00                   ZOO                20,000                10,00                     10                          2,00L l2000/
Field Otainaga design                                da                      05                   200                 7 .000               3.500                    60                           . 2un                 2 LOU
nnnban,sa.na. aro canals                             na                     880                  200               176,000                88,000                    40                          70,400                35.200
Finld ,oI-n                                           ha                    500                  20U               100.000                50,000                    40                          40,00u                oOOS
D-O-natoes p    (natal latin,,                        n                     170                   200               34,000                17I000                    60                          20,400                IO lOn
Internal . oada and br-dge-                          ha                   lIU                    200                20,000               .A  OOO                    30                           b000                  31,JOU
Snb-total                                                                                                     392,000              196,000                                               15 .500                77,252
2.OtoncN:a>iooa
CHblonaSs 9J                                      p1 anatoon           119,400                      1              119,400                59,700                    8O                          95,52U                47-i6u
80 
lnnlOanioosya toa                                 plantation           600,000                      1              600 000               No0 UU13 30                                          4t0 000               240 000
9Sub -tr o t aal                                                                                              71S00               739,                        S0 5,520                                         28 .0760
3. 7$sctilnat and EqL iooaott
nsapoorh apranora                                    nto.                   140                    10                 1,400                  700                    SO                           1.2U                    56.,
obce It apron ia7ska                                 no.                    200                    10                2,000                 1,000                    20                             400                   200
No d toils                                           no.                 2,4Uu                     - 4,,2,00                             1,202                      SO                           120
Sub_:o0a0                                                                                                       S.800                 0,900                    5L                          2,9bO                 l.00
4.1  Labcn Planting Onc-atin-
dClc--ain -and pianaaCn doatnit-in'    na                          5u                   2Uv                C,JU                  5,ouu                     0
Sondbed cleaning :0                           ha                     2N                   200                 5,000                2,500
Platting aid intI ,aat.an  d/                 ha                    250                   200                50, 000              25.000                     0
Sob T-Ia                                                                                               65,000                02 ,500 
4.2  Isbot C,ltitacoon  Prac,co,-
ti-rb-c:   appl  oacit                       'a                      37.5                 200                 7'0I0                3750                      0
SigatiiA  and intact coottiL t                ha                      S                   2Uu                 l.00                   5000
hioko control  /                              to                      0.3                 20                    S000                 250 
tneatoto Cootti- h/                           1.0                     5                   2000                L UUU                  50C                     0
Inrogatlon snd draitage 0!                   ha                      30                  200                 6,00U                 N,duo                     0
FOciclonos lit  1'                            So                      2.3                 200                   500                  250                     0
lrainomaintcnaict                            ha                      25                   200                5N0on Z                                         G
Sot1total                                                                                              21       U             0.750                     0
Tiol Labor                                                                                             86,500                :3,250                     0
S.   In0ona and Sonotcao
Saed                                                 kg                       O6             36u,uoO0              216 000               to8SOoo                     O
FeotaOlatrr-c inpoond                                tR                       0.51            50,U300:              O7,SSoO               10.7iG50 250O                                        202 100              I1G,0
mat                              at                        .40~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~        ~~~~ 10,030  115 0  7OOO  6C  l',i,t  n,'do
iebtnc:da                                            ha                     Sn                   200                16,S00                 0:400                    S0                         00,440                 6 720
F_ngicide L/                                         ha                     "IS                  200                36,000                180a,u                    tO                         26  -O1co
Nonatorido  1/                                       ha                      31.60               200                 4320                  2,260                    80                         30456                  1,728
lnaein:ccco  a!                        ~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~Ia  0.75  202                   050                    75                   80                             100                    60
Dcoo2ctnaanco r/                                     ad                      2.25                200                   450                   225                    5O                            36                   in.,
Pot: and itilib7cnta far ictigatlon and
dnalaagt                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ha    132.30                2021               30.31 2,255                                     so                         24,408                12:,004
AeoLwal pnaona0f                                     ha                     '40.04               200                28,00O                14,i-t                    95                         Z  6,S                10,004
It-igati    and drai-agatq:aananaintaancnj/ho                               45 Z5                                      9.                    5                      60                        A  400                  2.iO 000
Sob-total                                                                                                    390,238               195,119                    36                         141,792                70,846
6.   Packh-ose
mnnfratrocsina                                                   -             _                                    350:50                17,745                    09                        0lo345                  5,172
Consrocion                                            -                      -                     -               i:2.toi                S125                      60                         n2,000                31,000
naco-nery  ad 8qoiptYit                               -                      -                     -               114.250                57,125                    68                         77,4uu                38,7,0
Stb-to-al                                                                                                     252.24u              126,12a                     59                        149,0o5                74,872
7.   Cana   PRotein Adnini-trati.n  _/
Igfnfantoictora                                       -                                           .                  6son36               3,018                     38                          2.26Y                 .l4
Egsatroctain                                          -                      -                     -                20,500                11,250                    60                         13,500                 6.650
VOhiolao and eqoipeo-t                                 -                     -                     -                17,55u                 8.775                    75                          13,1b3                6,582
PSrot poar op-rati.o. .                                                      -                     -                47,890                23,445                     5                           2.394                1.197
Sbn-total                                                                                                      93,976               468988                    33                          31,326                15,663
oitol Inneotona ECata                                                                                            1,940,154               970,077                    54                       1,055,843              527.921
(Pa-tily laban                                                                                                     (86,500)              (43,2500                    0)                        1-)
oE Ostia-ted noon if L597/ha;  ataiin disianc-   tho.nd--anro bananaa it  102 natro-
6/ Ten nan-days.
tl Fine oat-days.
d/ Fifty nn-dapa.
of Seaen and a half  -as-da.Y
S/ One aan-day.
t.If a non-day.
hl One nang-day.
Tl Half a an-day.
PFine Ia-da-     .
It! 12 kg at _15/kt.
1V 2.4 It at L9/t.
n1 0.15 It at L5S1t.
nl 3 1t at LO.7S/it.
n/ 18 a1tplinstiana at L7.7P/aPpnltotton.
E/ 3E at the root of tobt..e.t.. fiEld d-ain- and drainnae etion loopallation.
/Each lint maet baa boen4 aetiTeoed at l/5 (theete ace Pint ptantati4si nof 3/4n
of the  nnoaseot coat of the Cetntal Penjact Ad-inietratSon  (the other 1/4
has been an1oatatd no plantain pantotOone).
SoIc-eh 2itaian.
Mstanl 21. 1980



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Table 30
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banana Investment Model: 200-ha Plantation
Sales and Operating Costs
Without          (lempiras)
Item                                                    Project                 End ot                            Year
1               ~          ~          ~         ~~2  3     4-2u
Product ion
Yield (40 lb. boxes/ha)                                                            -                    1,500                 2, 000                2,200
Annual production of bananas (boxes)                                                                 300,000               400,000                440,000
Sales a/                                                 46,24u q/                                 1,422,000             1,896,000              2,085,600
Operating Costs
Labor
Unskilled b/                                        25,020 r/                 _                  93,000               104,500               109,5UU
Services
Aerial straying c/                                                            -                  55,944                55,944                55,944
Maintenance
Cableway maintenance d/                                                            -                   5,970                  5,970                 5,970
Irrigation system maintenance e/                                                   _                  12,uOu                12,000                 12,000
Inirastructure maintenance f/                                                      _                  16,480                16,480                 16,480
Inputs
Seed  /-                                                                                              1U,800                    -                     -
Fertilizer-compound h/
-urea i/                                       5,94U 5/                 -                  65,36u                65,360                65,360
Herbicide i/                                                                       -                  11,200                 11,200                11,200
Fungicice k/                                                                       -                  72,000                72,000                 72,000
Insecticide 1/                                                                     -                     300                    300                   300
Nematicide m/                                                                      -                   4,32o                 4,32u                  4,320
Disinfectant a/                                                                    -                     900                    900                   900
Plastic bags and anchors 0/                                                        -                  58,552   *            75,240                 76,818
Fuel and labricants p_                                                             -                  57,902                57,9U2                 57,9U2
Packhousc
Boxes and other materials                                    _                     -                 339,048               452,064               497,270
Labor                                                                              -                  41,240                52,018                 56,698
Fuel and lubricants for tractors                             -                     -                     926                  1,544                 1,729
Maintenance of equipment and tractors                        -                     -                  14,062                 14,U62                14,062
COBhAHA management fee                                       -                     -                   4,102                 5,273                  5,766
Central Project Administration
Statt                                                        -                                        43,920                43,920                 43,920
Operation and maintenance                                  _                                           4,57u                  4,570                 4,570
Total Operating Costs                                    30,960                                      912,696             1,055,567             1,112,709
(Family labor) t/                                       (25,020)                    (0) u/          (123,000)             (144,500)             (153,5UU)
a/ L4.74/40 lb. box packed.
b/ 86.5 maa-says/ha cc Year 1, 93 in Year 2, 104.5 in Year 3 and 190.5 thereatter at L5.U/man-day.
c/ 18 sorayings in Year 1, 36 thereafter at L7.77/ha/appeication.
d/ 57. p.a. on investment cost.
e/ 2% p.a. on irrigation system installatron.
f/ 5% p.a. on embankments, canals, field drains and drainage pumps - 1U% on roads and bridges.
g/ 1,800 corms/ha in Year 1, 90 replantee in Year 2 at L0.6/corm.
h/ 250 kg/ha at L0.55/kg.
i/ 250 kg/ha in Year 1, 7bu kg/ha thereafter at L0.45/kg.
i/ 6 lt/ha in Year 1, 4 lt/ha thereafter at L14/lt.
k/ e2 kg/ha en Year 1, 24 kg/ha thereafter at L15/kg.
1/ 0.15 It/ha tn Year L, U.50 Lt!f I cy.,-eafter at L5/lt.
m/ 2.4 lt/ha at L9.0/lt.
n/ For disintecting knives for Moko control 3 lt/ha in Year 1 and 6 lt/ha thereafter at LO.75/it.
o/ Plastic bags and anchors are computed per bunch of bananas at L0.22/bunch; 1,333 bunches/ha in Year 2,
X4710 bunches/ha in Year 3 and 1,778 bunches/ba thereafter.
p/ Fuel and lubricants for drainage and irrigation.
a/ Sales of without project amount to 30,000 plantains, 6uu kg maize and 2uu kg seans.
r/ Estimated for plantains growing on 3/h ot the area.
s/ 110 kg/ha on 3/5 of the area.
t/ Corresponds to the unskilled labor employed in cropping activities and packing operations.
u/ Family labor in Year 1 is employed in the investment plan.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banana Investment Model: 200-ha Plantation
Cost-Benefit Analysis and Financial Rate of Return
(tempiras)
With Project
Without
Project        Year  1        2           3         4-5           6           7          8          9-10        11         12-14         15          16         17-19        20
Benefits
Sales                            46,240                -  1,422,000  1,896,000  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600
Residual value RI                      _               _      _                _           _      _               _           _ -  -  -                           -            -                 -           16,314
Total Benefits                   46,240                -  1,422,000  1,896,000  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,101,914
Costs
Investments b/                         -      1,940,154            -          -            -     17,500           -    114,200            -      17,500            -    114,200      17,500            -           -
Total operating costs            30.960                -    912696  1,05567  1112.709 1  .     ,112.709  11 709  1,112.709  1.112,709  1,112,709  1.             112.709  1.112.709  jjJ1,709  1,112,709  1.1122709
Total Costs                      30,960       1,940,154    912,696  1,055,567  1,112,709  1,130,209  1,112,709  1,226,909  1,112,709  1,130,209  1,112,709  1,226,909  1,130,209  1,112,709  1,112,709
Net Benefits
Total Benefits                   46,240                -  1,422,000  1,896,000  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,085,600  2,u,-,600  2,085,600  2,085.600  2,085,600  2,101,914
Total Costs                      30,960       1,940,154    912,696  1,055,567  1,112,709  1,130,209  1,112,709  1,226,909  1,112,709  1,130,209  1,112,709  1,226,909  1,130,209  1,112,709  1,112,709
Net Benefits                     15,280      (1,940,154)   509,304    840,433    972,891    955,391    972,891    858,691    972,891    955,391    972,891    858,691    955,391    972,891                  989,205
Incremental Net Benefits               -     (1,955,434)   494,024    825,153    957,611    940,111    957,611    843,411    957,611    940,111    957,611    843,411    940,111    957,611    973,925
Internal Rate of Return   4LQX
Switching Value of Critical Variables
Variables               Switching Value
Banana price                -337.
Total operating costs       .62%
a/ Represents the salvage value oi the packhouse machinery and equipment (assumed a linear depreciation over seven years).
b/ Replacement of vehicles and equipment of Central Project Administration every five years and replacement of machinery and equipment of packhouse every seven years.
Source:  Mission.
March-21, 1980.



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banana Investment Model: 200-ha Pl-ntatir.
Cash Flow Pro-ection (for a. m 80-asr e        ative)
(le=piras)
Without  -------------------------_-__---_____-________-_____________-With Project-               -----------------------------------       -------------------------
Cash Inflowa                                           PoL2et Year 1             2          3          4          5          6          7         8         9-1O       11        12-14      15         16       1l-19        20
Total sales                                       46,240         -     1,422,000 1,896,000 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600
Residual value                                              -         -          -          -          -          -          -               -          -          -          -         -          -          -          16,314
Beneficiary's eash contributio                                                                   -                                           -
Sobloan - long teem                                   -     1,746,138       -
Short-term working capital                            -        145,068 
Total Cash Inflow                                 46,240   1,891,206 1,422,000 1,896,000 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,085,600 2,101,914
Cash Outflow
Cash inve-tmnot costs                                 -     1,746,138       -         -          -          -         15,750      -        102,780      -         15,750      -        102,780    15,750    -            -
Cash operating costs                                5940         -       789,6969                                               9598209   959_209   959,209   959 209   959.           9              209   959,209   959_209
Total Cash Outflow                                  5,940   1,746,138   789,696   911,067   959,209   959,209   974,959   959,209 1,061,989   959,209   974,959   959,209 1,061,989   974,959   959,209   959,209
Balance beiree Debt Service                             40,300      145,068   632,304 1,126,391 1,126,391 1,126,391 1,110,641 1,126,391 1,023,611 1,126,391 1,110,641 1,126,391 1,023,611   974,959 1,126,391 1,142,705
Dlbt Service
Long term:  principal                                 -          -          -       291,023   291,023   291,023   291,023   291,023   291,023           -          -          -
intcrest a/                              -       122,230   244,459   244,459   203,716   162,973   122,230    76,446    40,743
Short tern:  principal                                -          -       145,068      -          -          -          -          -          -
intetrst a/                                        -         010        -                     -          -          -        __ _                             _
Total Debt Service                                    -        122,230   409,837   535,482   494,739   453,996   413,253   367,469   331,766
Cash Balance After Debt Service                         40,300       22,838   222,467   570,909   631,652   672,395   697,388   758,922   691,845 1,126,391 1,110,641 1,126,391 1,023,611  974,959 1,126,391 1,142,705
Family contribution is labor or kiod
Investment costs h/                                   -       194,015      -          -          -          -          1,750      -         11,420     -          1,750      -         11,420    1,750       -          -
Operating costs                                    25,020        -       123,000   144,500   153,500   153,500   153,500   153,500   153,500   153,500   153,500   153,500   153,500  153,500   153,500   153,500
Total                                             25,020      194,015   123,000   144,500   153,500   153,500   155, .50   153,500   164,920   153,500   155,250   153,500   164,920  155,250   153,500   153,500                  n
a/ 14% interest p.a.
b/  10. of total i-ve-tment casts.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Plantain Investment Model: 5-ha Plantation
Investment Costs
Unit             No. of                                                     Foreign               Foreign               Foreign
Investment Item                        Unit             Cost             Units                     Investment                        Exchange             Exchange              Exchange
(L)_________     _____               (L)                (US$)                 (%)                   (L)                  (US$)
1.  Land Development
Engineering study                       ha               33                5                   165                 82                  50                     82                   41
Topographical survey                    ha               75                5                   375                188                  10                     38                    19
Field drainage design                   ha               12                5                    60                 30                  60                     36                    18
Embankments                             ha              293                5                 1,465               732                   40                    536                  293
Field drains and canals                 ha              167                5                   835               418                   40                    334                   167
Roads and bridges                       ha              100                5                   500                250                  30                    150                    75
2.  Constructions
Storehouse                            plantation      1,000                1                 lOOO                500                  30                    300                   150
3.  Equipment
Knapsack sprayer                      plantation        140                1                   140                 70                  80                    112                    56
Hand tools                            plantation         60                1                    60                 30                  80                     48                    24
4.  Labor '/
Existing plantation (3 ha)              ha              261                3                   783                392                   0                      -                     _
New plantation  (2 ha)-                 ha              380                2                   760                380                   0                      -                     _
5.  Inputs and Services
Seed - planting and replanting          ha              895                2                 1,790                895                  30                    537                   269
Fertilizer - triple superphosphate    ha                 60                5                   300                150                  80                    240                   120
- urea                      ha              129                5                    645               322                  80                    516                   258
Fungicides                              ha              240                5                 1,200                600                  80                    960                   480
Nematicides                             ha               21.6              5                   108                 54                  80                     86                    43
Herbicides                              ha               56                5                   280                140                  80                    224                   112
Insecticides                            ha                0.75             5                     4                  2                  80                      3                     2
Disinfectant                            ha                3                5                     15                 8                  80                     12                     6
Transport of boxes  h/ box                                  .25          657                   165                 82                  50                     82                    41
Packing materials d/                    ha              329                3                   987                493                  80                    790                   395
Aerial spraying e/                      ha              186.7              5                    934               467                  95                    887                   443
6.  Central Project Administration -/
Infrastructure                        plantation                                                 37                18                  38                     14                     7
Co5sercatcun                          plantation                                                136                68                  60                     82                    41
Vehicles and equipment                plantation                                                106                53                  75                     80                    40
First year operations a/                                                                       580               290                   5                     29                    14
Total InveGtieaR t Cet                                                                        13,430             6,715                  46                  6,228                 3,114
(Family labor)                                                                             (1,543)              (772)                 (0)                    (-)
a/ All labor is family labor.
b/ Includes labor for olanting and establishment.                                                                                                                                       e
c/ LO.25/box includes transport of empty boxes to plantation and return of full boxes to railway station (only first-grade plantains are transported).
dB Boxes plus associated materials.
e/ By contract.
f/ 25% of total Central Project Administration investment cost for banana and plantain is allocated among 275 plantain investment models.
g/ First year operations (staff salaries and maintenance expenditures) are considered as investments.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



- 92 -                                                  ANNEX 2
Table 34
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Plantain Investment Model: 5-ha Plantation
Sales and Operating Costs
(1.tmpiras)
Without                        End of                    Year
I ter                                                                                Project                             1               2               3-20
Productiorn
Yield of first and second grade plantains (50 lb. boxes/ha)                              -                                292             430              510
Annual production of first and second grade plantains (50 lb. boxes)                     -                                876           2,150           2,550
First grade               (50 lb. boxes)             -                                657           1,613            1,913
Second grade                                                                          219             537              637
Rejects a!                                                                            175             430              510
Sales  bh                                                                                 706 c/                        4,765          11,698          13,874
Opera: ing Costs
Labor
Unskilled on the existing plantation (3 ha) d/                                         302 e/                                           9               933
Unskilled on the new plantation, (2 ha) f/                                                                                -             747             880
Services
Aerial spraying  /-                                                                                                       -             699             699
Plantain seed (corms for 2 ha) h/                                                     _                                                  89
Fertilizer - triple super-phosphate i/                                                -                                                 100             100
- urea i                                                                                                                   645             645
Fungicide k/                                                                          _                                                 900             900
Nematicide 1/                                                                                                             -             108             108
Herbicide _/                                                                                                              -             280             280
Insecticide n/                                                                        _                                                   4               4
Disinfectant o/                                                                                                           -              23              23
Transport oi bDo . p/                                                                                                     -             433             478
Pasoing nun-rial S/                                                                                                       -          2,429            2,870
Central Project Administration -
Stat tf-                                                                                                                                532             532
Operations anc maintenance                                                                                                               56             S5
Total Operating Costs                                                                   302                                 -           7,939           8,508
(Family labor)                                                                         (302)                               0.)        (1,680)          (1,813)
a/  Rejects are not boxed and are estimated as an added 20% of the first- and second-class grade plantains.
b/  First grade at L6.00/box; second grade at L2.80/box and rejects at Ll.20/box equivalent.
c/  Equivalent to 15,000 plantains sold on the roadside at L30/1,000 plantains.
d/  62.2 man-days/ha at L5/man-day.
e/  Labor estimated for crowning and thinning of existing corms.
T/  76.0 man-days/ha in Year 1, 74.7 man-days/ha in Year 2 and 88 man-days/ha in Year 3.
g/  For Sigatoka control and insecticide spraying, 24 sprayings in Year 1, 18 in following years at L7.77/ha.
h/  Corms for 2 ha at 1,790/ha costing LO.5/corm; 5% replanting in second year.
i/  150 kg/ha in Year 1 and 50 kg/ha in successive years at LO.4/kg.
j/  300 kg/ha/year at 10.43/kg.
k/  16 kg/ha/year in Year 1 and 12 kg/ha/year thereafter at L15/kg.
1/  2,4 kg/ha/year at L9.0/kg.
m/  4 lt/ha/year at L14.0/lt.
n/  0.15 it/ha/year at L5.0/it.
o/  For disinfecting knives for Moko control 4 lt/ha in Year I and 6 lt/ha thereafter at LO.75/lt.
z/ At LO.25/box, includes the delivery of empty boxes to the plantation and the returning of full boxes
to the railway station.
I/ 11.5/box.
r/  40% of total Central Project Administration operating cost for banana and plantain.
Note: Labor, services and inputs during Year 1 are considered in investments.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Plantain Investment Model: 5-ha Plantation
Cost-Benefit Analysis and Financial Rate of Return
(lempires)
With Project
Without
Project          Year 1            2              3 - 5           6              7-10            11             12-15           16              17-20
Benefits
Sales                                          706              4.765          11.698         13,874         13,874          13,874          13,874          13,874          13.874         13.874
Total Benefits                                 706              4,765          11,698         13,874          13,874         13,874          13,874          13,874          13,874         13,874
Costs
Investments al                                    -            13,430               -               -            106               -            106               -             106               -
Total operating costs                          302                  -           7,939          8,508           8,508          8,508           8,508           8.508           8,508 _50
Total Costs                                    302             13,430           7,939          8,508           8,614          8,508           8,614           8,508           8,614           8,508
Net Benefits
Total Benefits                                 706              4,765          11,698         13,874          13,874         13,874          13,874          13,874          13,874          13,874
Total Costs                                    302             13,430           7,939          8,508           8,614          8,508           8,614           8,508           8,614           8,508
Net Benefits                                   404             (8,665)          3,759          5,366           5,260          5,366           5,260           5,366           5,260           5,366
Incremental Net Benefits                         -             (9,069)          3,355          4,962          4,856           4,962           4,856           4,962           4,856          4,962
Internal Rate of Return    489k
Switching Value of Critical Variables
Variable                Switching Val7e                                                                                g S
Plantain price              -28%
Total operating costs       +45S
a/ Replacement of vehicles and equipment of Central Project Administration every five years.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDUSAS
SECOND AGRICULCURAL CREDYI  PROJECT
Plantain Investment Model:  5-ha Plantation
Cash Flow Pro jection
(lempiras)
Without    _-------- _-_-_-_-_- - - -  _- -- -------     ------------ - ------ -- -- -- -- ------ -With    Pro j ect -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - ~- -- - -  - -  -- - -- -- -- - -- - - -- - -- - - - - -
Cash Inflow                                              Prolect   Year 1             2          3           4          5           6          7          8           9         10         11        12-15        16         17-20
Total sales                                              706      4,765      11,698     13,874      13,874     13,874     13,874      13,874     13,874      13,874     13,874    13,874      13,874      13,874      13,874
Residual value                                           -           -          -          -                      -
Beneficiary's cash contribntion                                     -
Subloan - long ters                                      -       12,087
Short-term working capital                                                                                                          _
Total Cash Inflow                                        706    16,852      11,698      13,874      13,874     13,874     13,874      13,874     13,874      13,874     13,874    13,874      13,874      13,874      13,874
Cash Outflow
Cash iveotetati  costs                                   -       12,087         -          -           -          -           106        -           -          -           -         106           _         106        -
Cash operating costs                                                -       6259        6_695       6,695       6,*695     6.695       6,695      6_6 93     6_6 95      6,695    6 6_95       6_695       6-695       6.695
Total Cash Outflow                                       -       12,087      6,259       6,695      6,695       6,695      6,801       6,695      6,695       6,695      6,695      6,801      6,695       6,801       6,695
Balance  Before Debt Service                                  706      4,765       5,439      7,179       7,179      7,179       7,073      7,179       7,179      7,179       7,179     7,073       7,179       7,073      7,179
Debt Service
.ong torm':  principal                                  -           -          -           -        2,014      2,014       2,014      2,014       7,014      2,017         -                     --
interest a/                                -           846      1,692      1,692       1,692      1.410       1,128        846         564        282
Short tern:  principal                                   -                      _          _           _                      _          _           _                                _
intercst a/                                          _           _                      _          _
Total Debt Service                                       -           846      1,692      1,692       3,706      3,424       3,140      2,860       2,578      2,299         -
Cash  Balance After Debt Service                              706       3,919      3,747       S,487      3,473      3,755       3,933      4,319       4,601      4,880       7,179     7,073       7,179       7,073      7,179
Family contribution in labor or kind
Investment costs _/                                      -        1,343        -           -        1           1          1          1           1          1           1         1
operating l osts                                         302        -        1,680       1,813      1,813       1,813      1,813       1,813      1,813       1,813      1,813      1,813      1,813       1,813       1,813
Total                                                    302      1,343      1,680       1,813      1,813       1,813      1,813       1,813      1,813       1,813      1,813      1,813      1,813       1,813       1,813
a/ 147, ilterest p.a.
b/ 10% of total investeent costs
Source:  Mission.
March 21, 1980



HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Forestry Component
Investment Costa
(lempiras)
Years
Unit       No. of                                                                                    Foreign   Foreign       Foreign
l-6rst0ieot ltem                                         Unit        Ct            onit           1           2            3            4                Total                hange  E     ne       xange
(L)  (DUO)        2.~       ~~ (L)       (US$)
1. Nursteies
I .   Pine Nursery E.p.n6i..                                2
W1orkahed  nd soilshed                             502        1,700          2          3,400            -            -           -         3,400       1,700        10          340          170
Storage/office room                                 -       15,000           1        15,000                          -           -        15,000       7,500        40        6,000        3,000
Seed and iransplant beds                           25m2          20         85          1,700            -            -           -         1,700         850        10          170           85
Fencing                                            m             20        100         2,000             -                        -         2,000       1,000        50        1,000          500
Irrigation expansion                                -        7,000           1         7,000             -            -           -         7,000       3,500        95        6,650        3,325
Offire equipment                                    _         2,000          1                           -2,00 _)                           2.000      _10q0         80        1,600          800
Sub-Total                                                                                31,100            -            -           -        31,100      15,551        51       15,760        7,880
1.2 Firewood Nurseries
Work.hed and soilshed                              25m2       2,000          2          2,000            -       2,000            -         4,000       Z,000        10          400          200
Storage/office room                                 -        4,000           2         4,000             -       4,000            -         8,000       4,000        40        3,200        1,600
Seed and Franspl.nt beds                           2502          20         56            560                       560           -         1,120         560        10          112           56
Fencing -                                           m            20        300          3,000            -       3,000            -         6,000       3,000        50        3,000        1,500
Irrigation expansion                                -        5,000           2         5,000             -       5,000            -        10,000       5,000        90        9,000        4,500
Office equipment                      _                       1,600          2                       1,600          60           3,200                 1_600         80        2       ,560  1,280
Sub-Total                                                                                16,160                    16,160           -        32,320      16,160        57       18,272        9,136
1.3 Vehicles
Pickups                                           No.       16,000           3        32,000             -      16,000            -        48,000      24,000        75       36,000       18,000
Teack 3.5 ton                                      No.       34,000          1        34,000             -            -           -        34,000      17,000        75       25,500       12,750
Truck 6 t1                                         No.      40,000           1        40000                           -           -        40.000      L0_000        75       30,000       15,000
Sub-Total                                                                               106,000            -       16,000           -       122,000      61,000        75       91,500       45,750
Sob-Total Norsery                                                                           153,260            -       32,160            -      185,420      92,710        68      125,532        62,766        m
2,  Pine plantation
2.1 Fencing                      -           /           km.        1,000         62    1     8800        17,600       17.600                    61600       30,800        50 
Sob-Total Pine Plantation                                                                     8,800       17,600       17,600       17,600       61,600      30,800         50      30,800        15,400
3.  Fire Protection
3.1 Fire tower -                                                    3,000          3          9,000            -            -             -       9,000       4,500         10          900          450
3.2 Fire tower equipment --                                             -          3         17,190            -            -            -       17,190       8,595        90       15,471         7,735
3.3 Fire brigade equipment  /                             -             -          -          5,968            -                                  5,968       2,984        90        5,371         2,686
3.4 Fire fighting vehicle                                 -        27,400          1         27,400            -                          -      27_40 0      j _70         75                    10275
Sob-Total Fire Protection                                                                    59,558            -            _             _      59,558      29,779         71      42,292        21,146
4. Fnrest Management
4.1 Building                   /                          -        32,000          1         32,000            -            -            -       32,000      16,000        40       12,800         6,400
4.2 Equipment and furniture -                             -             -          -          8,840            -            -             -       8,840       4,420         90       7,956         3,978
4.3 Vehicles (four wheel drive)                          No.       16,000          2         32. 000                        -             -      32,000       16,000        75       212000
Sub-Total Forest Management                                                                  72,840            -             -            -      72,840      36,420         61      44,756        22,378
Total Investment Cast                                                                             417,600 48379.418                                                             64      243,380      121,690
a/ Chicken-wire fencing,
b/ 3-strand fencing.
c/ Consists rf:  fire finder (L2,400), radio (L2,000), bin.oculars (L130), other small equipment (1400).
d/ Consists of:  swatters (10 at L54 each), back packs pumps (4 at L148), McLeod tools (4 at L58), pick rakes (4 at L46), pulaskis (4 at L36),
hats (20 at L14), centeens (20 at L18), shovels (10 at L32), torches (2 at 115S), machetes (20 at LIO) and I VHF radio at L2,800.
e-/ Consists of:  fsrsiture (L3,000), in-remnt board (5 at L100), calculator (4 at L60), pocket stereoscope (4 at L100), stereoscope (2 et L200),
sketchmaster (I at L2,000), typewriter (1 at 1.800), clinometer (I at L600), planineter (I at L400), distance neasurer (1 at L100),                                                               cOO
drafts table (1 at L400).
Source:  Mission.
March 21, 1980



-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t
_ Oi    g                       _                       s        S   go    ;   :  N   WO  0  C  --S  - V----.  -.
ixk                                                     o                  c
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a _ 
ooolg0 8Og g 1 OOOoOo '   000o ;O                   PoO       o                o                        o    oPa         ;l
o W s ~~~~ _ r0 _ .        8~t            r                 OO_~>w                                    r  0 O ~o  _  000|:o  05 -
-    00Io -XPP  E    Lo=goooooo    010-W PP         pU=W - Oj_Or. 0P -oI                        P- 0000g   B000  0000000-    P
P 0o 0lo 0| 0 i0 0 l88EE 01 01    l o 0g 0lc 0 0} 0   0- 000   000                    - 880 0B@ 0lo 0 00 00   00 0  00000 0  0    O,OL o 0
000    w00000- =S  0t0o .00oo                                          I'                      .oS                
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
t  I                                  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
=> tg ozg  igS     t8  1                               o fgg g            b0 | 0|      IS S   - 0 S o >                   O      pgg o roO   tFg '0 
0*  0,  0S | j                                       iF _1                   |6 t t1t|~  I 00000w0000 a         g-lg   aw                                    1



u ro o js                     5          0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - -- - -- - --- -- - - 5--- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -   -- - - -- - - -- - -  -- 2-- -- -- -- -- --   ---    -- -- - --     - - --  -    - -- ----                  27-- - -- -  ---- ----   -3               24-- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - -  --- -- --2 - -- -- --8 - -- C- --
03383333 8033333 (00,  SC-  0,CC,  0,03C  .,40,  -  -~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
1.0030.331/0(303                 -          -                                                   - ~       ~~       ~    ~~- 464-2j  -    -                            '30       .0         <            I-                            -
83S318,33S333343                3~~~~~~~~~6.0  463.3  36        983       5.9        03        S.         38        3.         (O       38         S           '                                                            '         383                                                        11.    C.4,.          3C8    ,4.
33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M5 55                                                                                                                                          I5 .5
0.0.1  303330,333338  SOS  -  -  -  -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           1
1.30333 33353453335'        6.0                  -~        ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~~~ -    -  -  T    -
3.3.1  3333 S333333        1~~~Ill23.  100.17l       .17.  307.         -
2   ,,33   333                    5.         5,        2.         82        83           0       3o         377 1      3S8.                                                                                                                                                                                                 30        8,
Z., I                                     I 333177  233.I 6    2700~.8   134 , 3 . 0                  376            -          -         -         -
0.7  7333 733333S33300           o.o~~~~~1  3.3       3.8        S.        3.0       3.3       37.0       .,8        1.3        4'       (C'        80-        3333'I            ,.1        2~                             '        C)30                                                                         .03.33.
3.3  -4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-33366'                                                                                                                                    -3     31.        Il 1       7
63830  /3335385 43,33        71S.3    ~~~~~~     ~~433,7,    4881-  483.1    (733.0  108.   130.9     .1103      137.3     3328      03.3       307       1130--3                                                                 1)                                                             III--      -.7. 1- _____7
-A  442.8  511~~~~~1    1-1  17-  121,  01.1  111.3  117.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                                                              37,3      814.31-0.3           013.
W  ...... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                                                      .0.         .333,3.              ,2.
N. 10. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~3833333    70






elON 790.          e21       -9                      -.1          I       -1           -9
LI1                   2          9.      44.     ~     5           64     12(9                                          12             l2o             2                   o          U         1          10        02 1         21      o11         Jo          2          25 .N                 7          Z          2
80790  ,t8-   9          92999    o357,N      0- 41 5. 44.;1         839.9      78.4      12.N       131 .0      1.        989.      952         181        027       3.7         1>2.4)       0     99I         i4o   1.             O12. I  4   S 1       1150 74 I]                       1 1.0 7809 1.                  1911.7    71.
N''  ,08118(A   N'  4899;    35551  980.1    (98.2  0.2' 780.  (N)  9.47     22.,       024)      77.)      (',4        sE;        00.      070             5      7         049,        7.0     [247          0-'.    77.1        IN.;      .1.4;      (lN4    9N16$    1471.    O,N1.67,(29
~oooo1   00o  f 996,,  oOO  7  ooo~  =   27
A-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~101 00   0190   o73=1/
-d-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~oo7 001i-01881   ~8                                                         1
21~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;1140101807  7  00.,.'NooOOl    0






Annex 2
- 99 -                             'able 41
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices for Farm Products (at farm level)
(lempiras)
Sugarcane (per m ton)
Financial                       Economic
1980                           22.32                           30.62
81                             "                             33.09
82                                                           41.24
83                             "                             46.93
84                                                           51.87
85                                                           57.79
86                                                           55.32
87                                                           52.61
88                                                           49.89
89                                                           47.42
90                                                           44.70
Rice (per m ton)
Financial                       Economic
1980                           491                             439
81                                                           452
82                                                           470
83                                                           477
84                                                           492
85                            "                              500
86                            "                              505
87                                                           505
88                                                           509
89                                                           513
90                           II                              518
Milk (per liter)
Financial and Economic
1980                                  0.29
81                                   "
82                                   "
83                                   "
84
85
86                                   "
87
88
89                                   It
90



- 100 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 41
Page 2 of 2
Beef (per kg,dressed)-&
Financial                       Economic
1980                            2.27                           2.49
81                            2.29                           2.59
82                            2.29                           2.48
83                            2.27                           2.78
84                            2.44                           2.55
85                            2.24                           2.50
86                            2.25                           2.74
87                            2.40                           2.72
88                            2.41                           2.83
89                            2.48                           2.83
90                            2.47                           2.83
Bananas (per 40 lb box, packed)
Financial                       Economic
1980                           4.74                            5.74
81                            "                              6.20
82                            "                              6.66
83                            "                              6.66
84                            "                              6.31
85                            "                              6.03
86                            "                              5.74
87                            "                              5.74
88                           "i                              5.74
89                            "                              5.74
90                            "                              5.74
Plantains (per 50 lb box, packed)
Financial and Economic
b/
First Grade    Second Grade   Rejects-
1980                             6.00            2.80          1.20
81                              "               "             "
82
83                              "               "       
84                             ,,
85
86
87
88                             ,,
89
90                              if             ..             ..
-  The financial beef price per kg is estimated from the cattle sales per year and
varies slightly according to what stock is sold.
B/ Rejects are not boxed but the price is given per box equivalent, i.e.,per 50 lb
of rejected plantains.
Source:  Missionf
March 21, 1980



[1021131 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ 1               -                                2 
1 2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     9~1993-92  
229222111191122                        21        21.9                                                                 -~~~~~~~~n-  3:z  T7~7  122  9                                        -          *                              -                    1          31       17              .      9      1       91                           9
29191229 ,12121929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12 I      21~~~~~~~~~~wl1-  11    5.1I.
291212191229252      12   12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wl                                                                    11
99              11a                                                 1:                     '1                                                                                                                             2~          .
lr~~~~~~~~~~  1:7                                                                                                  2.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I     21                                                   I          I          I          0
11119912                                 1.1        22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,, 32N                                                                      I






- 102 -
ANNEX 3
HONDURAS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents in the Project File
General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
(a) FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme:
Identification Report No. 55/78 HON. 6, November 28, 1978
(b) BCH Project Submission. Segundo Proyecto de Credito Agricola - Propuesto;
Central Bank of Honduras; March 1979
(c) Proyecto extension cultivo de banano en las margenes del Rio Ulua
COHBANA, January 1979
(d) Control de Inundaciones 6,000 Acres en el Valle de Sula
Feasibility Study, 3 Vol, March 1980
Appraisal Mission Working Papers
1.   Crop Development
2.   Livestock Development
3.   Forestry Development
4.   Agricultural Credit and Participating Institutions
5.   Selection and Appointment of External Auditors.






__________                         ~~~~~~I BR9D 14337
89  89                  89                                       89                                     85'-                                                                  JaNE  979~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N  I97
89,                                                              W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                          E
EII'LE                                                                Aaakn~~~~~~~~~~~CA        RCAAEl Aatn IN  - E         I                                                                     rA
G7na' aC  9                                                                                      a tS
F                                                                                                                                                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACI,F/C
'8'                                                                                                       Ha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~A t5LA Naa  D   An
Faa/a 5a1  Coyas  Caahnans                  a/a                '-'"'a-                                                   Tha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anapiaan 8a~~~~~apaanar~~~~C8a'a,/
L..-'-a-       CIf   f H,du,,adaaPya  aaaar (2Wat8aaeaaaaa
~~~/   Snaa                               A'F                                        'a-k                                            Th/a,nyaaaaaanaaandaaa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-le ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~aa                                  '' /                               AC B                              ~-"a~a-    a.                                                                                    aadaaaaat~a
al. '-t                                                                             ~                                                                             waaaaaanaaa-aa/saa8-ka
Onna  'N'aa~aamO  /     0       ~       -a        a'                             /La',                    a7~1  t''""\'        a                         taaat aaapa an thaaaa/ a/an
-AT E ~M A L A--j
G U~~~~~~~~~~l'                                   K   
81/A aPFD'-Q 
LaaabaI                     'I>                                                                           /                            '-(&                       /  $  'a-a'a"  mo~~~~~~~J,  ----
0                                                               0
6'         /aKa~~~~~                                                                                    /              A                    81i e'~OR
l~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                               / V,IR IA                       t
a"
'eta/nb>                          SAN/0      0apCO'n'Kaj~a'                                                                                                                                                          a    3
3   a,,~~~                                ~~9su"RA                                                                                                                                                 a'
0 STA RO5>9r                                                                             jc      ObE  '/        '      
0'.~~~~~~~O Iz                                                             //p' 1''
C)GRA51                      C5 
I N3VA/                                                       '7 o61                                                              a         OtIOIU A
H  0\           '    0        1   0~
-o                                      'P      aaP   - 
I a.                    I   I 
;~~~~~'-;$>;~~~~~~~~7aP O   I                            -                           0                                a/rd~~~~~~~~~~I 0N    D R Aigeajet'
14-                                                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
O'~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-   .    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 0M8TR5               ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      F-apri~"
E L   5 A                   R~~~~~\    "'Ta 
EAC/FIC    OCE~~~ANG                                           .    aQpi4' 'sldt;,,
88>    -           'a   9/                                                         -                          Basad a3~~~~&  )~k ala/ PaiaMa /c/aj' er'a  18 '8
____  __________________                            /                     -                .~~~~~~L~~~-a_____  _____                            _____________________________d_l_rio__op_a






I BRD 14338
IfEIIZ                                                                                                                                                                              S ~~~~~~RTES-
FT2                                                                                                                                                                                                                '   ; ,i-  ;PofkSrSD>htLgtC_ w>,f\;\W
BARBARA/                                                                                                                                     1A AS
HONDURAS
\.;-. }               A S ;;SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT:
:;   ;    'N! i  '   m  Sh 3i t -}  r;a    ti;"  , S;y   74t    ;';L   |   ;N  Land  Use  Potential
r fI.      S A.  V  AD   OP                      i;   1VA  LIE-                                             AREA   1-SUITABLE  FOR  INTENSIVE  USE                                          AREA  2-SUITABLE  FOR  EXTENSIVE  USE
,-        S  A  Lj V; A  D            :D R :    gic 
SUITABLE  FOR ANNUAL CROPS    SUITABLE FOR PERENNIAL  CROPS:  SUITABLE  FOR  ANNUAL  CROPS:   SUITABLE  FOR  PERENNIAL CROPS
*~~~~~ :\.    st                                            t FI9'LTEC      - S             HOT HUMID                             HOT UHIHl            r. II0T HUMID                                         .-:--- HOT HUMIID 
|    ;  t-      i7     a:: t        ;C               h >:z         4rE       ,             ,              ;  i IITDY                                 HOT 1)00                                HO1 DRY ROT=.. .I -HY
I   c      . . ;  6  X    i ;> ;- c.   .. D :   ::   : ::    T     pt+,            1:S :   .3       TF.1ERAT-                                                                     TEMPERATE DRY                          T       L
t 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~7  C  ,N    A)' ;; 1 ?rC ft4                                                             TDMTER I E DRY                                                       IFITF    COLD H UMID                   L_  I   TOMPEHUOC ORY
7    ~       A N                       \\    .                                   J
2  .( - Rig ; j-                                                r                                                          >5  e = =fJ  roLnHUMID AREA  4-SUITABLE  FOR VERY  EXTENSIVE
DY! ; '   ;</;rpS> >eSl. 'tO;  .77ri ;..                     "                      i,;  ;5'l; AREA  3-SUITABLE  FOR  FOREST  USE                                                                   LIVESTOCK  OR  FORESTRY  USE:
n l. -E   l            f; g ,  i i; ; ;; 1      {l l; r    L    X                                                                                SUIlAFLE FOR VERY EXTENSIYS LIYESIUs I. an rnREsTnyHul  UST DU VEb BOE 5107 IUTI UT110 TODUTO OT
[v  - g F iI r u , >> , t [ : t ;t ;tL; , tf >'                                  .                      SUITUDEF 'O| TOPICOL HUHDWD'OUO
1j>   ,  U4.  Yl7 j                                                              . 0:  '   x   ;;  ;   7   Sg=S<    SUITABLE TOD MAMGRDVETSOR OTHER HALOPHILD TUS SPCIES
!     >g z   'A .l *                               6 |  ODDO TOS          ;--    Tn uRdflOHTdI   V0.......D
: ' r   -.-0- rD                                                                                                                     T-                                           --,Y Y- -,.,        - R       V






09'  Re,  C A RIBBEA N  v7'                                                                               e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                         JUR881NE
LEA
j                                                       ~~~~~            ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~Utilo  ky.win c                                                                        SLVO
~~~  I  TIlJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  -  V ~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                          IN
A                                                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. A DO   i 
SF,oinsco  l1,ol,Mv                 IG R4/                                                                         15AY ASDI     
Nk. N. b,.~~~~~~
El I         '               , j-                            otpvO dS .                                                              5,,F,v-,
N  ~ ~  18 ~~~'  \iI'litC~~~~U(.,'..         ConorovuAe,                                                             NH 4'
'L  < I E MI' I  P                     ,,~S                         /            N  ~-.                                                                    ECOND AGRIULTURAL CRDIT PROJEC
F p                                                              R'~~~-   ',      E 0 A~  C                                                                                        1      1K  50N0,000 A 
i,    u~~~~)Svo,d
559  ('Sau.,   o,oP~~~~~~~i ,.-~~~,.,...,n/  /                                                      Qoretsie  Forsd Fnosresf Re4stris,Pyod  t.
N dv Float                                          N                               Pi1,e F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnalrp oayinBaruPe
L.oon                                                                                                                toI nrae  and Swam
I            I        .4          cc,',,,    Rivers00  00   nd   ve
Or.                                                                                                               ( 7NN  tOEIt- - 0 epr Fmvs Iondasries (o,, lvd  t.
j  Go/f a/~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~~   ~~~  'c"                                                               -   -   Iist~~~~~~~~~~~"  FrnqEinslBonare
P  A   C/F/C       OCEAN                        ,'OA55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO,~~
L3               5   A    L, i, p,oivlv   os'o{   C  9i UNI no 






88                                          59                                                                                  LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  JUNE   1979
LARDS nSA                                                                                           0-N,>LAN
_OA--N-  --,    7      ,1UIL.IILN
BELI ZE              o.                                                                                             OTNLAOC I1
IA                  Cuf1;,f   of   Honduras014 AN6179
'0                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLO0N                                    '
13 U    A    T/        M    A    L   A                                                                                                                                     HD41
V                AT At NAN T IDA                                                AOTOCOA
~~-  <1 oLe              /          ~~~~~~~~~~ SAN                             0131> ;
Izobal                                P110059 ~~OA                                                    OLANCHITTOA                                    ~~ 
Cr---                                            Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELPROGIESL                                                                                                                                                     N
LAEN4TADAAD                           sos                                       cOO0                                                                                                GRA  C  IA  S                     A    D io
~s 51291720
-SANTA DAS.A77O  19n 5005'1  3lj                                                                                       A?59Mt.n                                                                                   -'
IiA 0SA E CKIiN-OAAnfJA                                                0                                                                                             .              
1.  f      3,       A       j P46ENI*CJLJTICALPA                                                                                        1"              
C'16- 1,4              AcGAnCIs                                   -     -L
J(A%0                                                                  AU                  RNIC
OCOTL100LL     35  46         '           -MORAZAN
29 107325
N                       ~~~~AOMARCLAITGCIAP~                                      E L   PA RA ISO                                              .1                                          HONDURAS
14'                                ~~~~A%LAMASLA     Ut                                 C0MAYAGUELA    49)        AG4 ANTAODANLI                                                              SECOND  AGRICUTURAL  CREDIT  PROJECT                                           1
6  9~~                                    ~ ~~~~~~~ \. ,                                  Agrarian Reform Grouips (Asentamientos), Farm Credit OfcsBF
-r'   ~~~~~~~~  ~ ~        ~         ~         OLLA01PAHAISO rk.                                                          and  Grain  Storage  Facilities (IHMA)
E L         S  A  L V A   D  0   R                                                                                                                                     (7S9)   Number of Atentamentos in DepaIrtment - (As of December 1978)
NACA001 OA                   184 23                                                                        i]Areas of Asentormientas in Deportment, in Thousand HectareoaS - (As of December 1978
sI3    1 CHOLUTEC-A    >A    Farm  Credit Offices - Banco National do Fomen,to (BNF)
~-t~<   KS U  6       770901T0                                                                               *    Grair Storage  Facilities lestituto HondureBa do Mercad.a Agricalo (IHMA)
14) -V                                                                     Ac~~~~~~~Un     -                                                                                Dep-rtment Boundaries
p  -&4~~-- ,---.~~~---    -  Njt.i                                                                                                      --- bternatonal Boundaries            0- ILl ILL   p10IL~~~~~~~~~0I Intrnationa Boundares1 .....
OCeANA






[BRD 14362
M~~X9CC5  ~~JUNE9 1979
BELIZE                                                                                                                      5550,'d055v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULZ
HONDUDRAS~
S ALVADIORJ 'SCAA1
PA CIFI/C  USC'~AIV
Second Agricultural Credit Project 
Transportation and  Relief7
--    -oed ro-ds/
I~~~~~~~~~~~jLl A--                                                                                                                - Deporltsen ono
I)Nenation.1.pa
E L    S A LVA DOR                                                                                                                                                                       E le,ati-n in mters
Al,s                                                                                                       554[525            2     2'0015                100 
ULli I ~     60,1,20          0
~~~~~~FF S2FFs)As  Lii    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0- 0
Pacific  Ocean ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLVEE~1                                                                            251                         D
_______ _               _ _ _ _     _         _ _ _ _ _     -  ____       _-         89                _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ __d_



