OCT  ,      CREDIT NUMBER    (805-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1980


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        Afw   1              , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making available the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank) to provide additional assistance toward the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Loan);
(C) the Project will be partly carried out by Banco Central
de Honduras (hereinafter called Banco Central), with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to Banco Central the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(D) the Borrower and the Association intend that, to the
extent practicable, the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed
before disbursements of the Loan be commenced; and
(E) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Bank and Banco Central (hereinafter called the
Project Agreement), Banco Central has undertaken certain obliga-
tions regarding its participation in the carrying out of the
Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Banco Central pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the Loan provided
for in such Agreement;
(b) "BANAFOM" means the Banco Nacional de Fomento, esLab-
lished by the Borrower's Decree No. 71, dated February 16, 1950,
and includes any successor to BANAFOM;
(c) "Ministerio" means Ministerio de Recursos Naturales,
the Borrower's Ministry of Natural Resources, and any adminis-
trative subdivision or agency thereof, and any successor thereto;
(d) "Instituto" means the Borrower's Instituto Nacional
Agrario established by the Borrower's Decree No. 69, dated
March 6, 1961, and includes any successor to Instituto;
(e) "COHBANA" means Corporaci6n Hondurefa del Banano,
a legal entity established by the Borrower's Decree No. 270,
dated October 3, 1975, as such Decree may be amended from time to
time, and includes any successor to COHBANA;
(f) "COHDEFOR" means Corporaci6n Hondurefia de Desarrollo
Forestal, and such term includes any successor thereto;


﻿-3-
(g) "Project Executive Committee" means the committee
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(h) "Participating Intermediary" means COHBANA or any
banking institution authorized to operate as such in the Republic
of Honduras, including BANAFOM, which has entered or will enter
into a Project Administration Contract;
(i) "Project Entities" means COHDEFOR, Ministerio, Instituto
and the Participating Intermediaries referred to collectively;
(j) "Project Administration Contract" means each of the
contracts to be entered into between Banco Central and a Project
Entity as required by Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement,
and any amendment thereto; and "Project Administration Loan" means
a loan provided for in a Project Administration Contract;
(k) "Regulations" means Acuerdo No. 865 of the Borrower,
dated December 18, 1969, issued by the Secretarla de Estado en
los Despachos de Economia y Hacienda of the Borrower, as
amended by Acuerdo No. 883 dated December 21, 1973, issued by
the Secretaria de Estado en los Despachos de Hacienda y Cr6dito
PGblico and by Acuerdo No. 494-A dated November 10, 1976, issued
by the Secretarfa de Estado en los Despachos de Hacienda y
Cr6dito Pfblico, as they may be further amended from time to
time;
(1) "Investment Plan" means a detailed proposal for invest-
ments to be financed under the Project, such Investment Plan to
include, inter alia, Beneficiaries' contributions in family labor
and in kind;
(m) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
under a Sub-loan Contract by a Participating Intermediary out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan to a Beneficiary for an
Investment Plan;
(n) "Sub-loan Contract" means a contract providing for
a Sub-loan;
(o) "Municipal Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by Banco Central under a Municipality Sub-loan Contract out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan for building or improv-
ing a municipal abattoir;


﻿-4-
(p) "Municipal Sub-loan Contract" means a contract pro-
viding for a Municipal Sub-loan;
(q) "Beneficiary" means any individual, corporation,
cooperativa, including a cooperativa de campesinos (as defined
in the Agrarian Reform Law), empresas asociativas de campesinos
(as defined in the Agrarian Reform Law), or any legal entity,
other than a Participating Intermediary, that has entered or will
enter, a Sub-loan Contract;
(r) "Small Scale Farmer" means a Beneficiary who is in any
of the two cases set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement;
(s) "Agrarian Reform Law" means the Borrower's Decree
Law No. 170, dated December 30, 1974 and published in La Gaceta
No. 21.482 of January 28, 1975 and any regulation thereunder,
as such Agrarian Reform Law may be amended from time to time;
(t) "Project Unit" means the unit within Banco Central
established pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the Prior Project
Agreement; and "Project Director" means the head of the Project
Unit charged with the functions referred to in Schedule 2 to
the Project Agreement;
(u) "Project Account" and "sub-Project Account", mean,
respectively, the account and sub-accounts referred to in Section
2.06 (f) of the Project Agreement;
(v) "Prior Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(628-PO) (Agricultural Credit Project), dated July 2, 1976,
between the Association and Banco Central;
(w) "Lempiras" means the currency of the Borrower;
(x) "Prodero Region" means the area covered by the Depart-
ments of Copfn, Ocotepeque and Lempira;
(y) "Prior Credit Agreements" means the Development Credit
Agreement No. 179-HO (First Livestock Project) dated March 2,
1970, the Development Credit Agreement No. 434-HO (Second Live-
stock Project) dated October 29, 1973 and the Development Credit
Agreement No. 628-HO dated July 2, 1976, entered into between the
Association and the Borrower, referred to collectively;


﻿-5-
(z) "Guayape Valley Project Area" means the area of about
93,000 hectares in the Department of Olancho of the Borrower
where the Guayape Regional Development Project is being carried
out, partially financed under Loan Agreement No. 1576-HO entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank on June 16, 1978;
(aa) "Ministerio de Hacienda" means Ministerio de Hacienda
y Cr6dito PGblico, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and any
administrative subdivision or agency thereof, and any successor
thereto; and
(bb) "Guidelines" means "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be iithdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-6-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1990, and ending
February 15, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of The United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Geaeral
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) cause Banco Central to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Agreement and each Project Administration Contract
all the obligations therein set forth; (ii) cause COHDEFOR and
COHBANA to enter into Project Administration Contracts with
Banco Central, satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose
of carrying out, respectively, Parts B and D.2 and A.1, A.2, A.3,
C.2, C.3 and D.1 of the Project, and shall cause COHDEFOR and
COHBANA to perform, in accordance with such Contracts, all the
obligations therein set forth; (iii) enter, through Ministerio,
into a Project Administration Contract with Banco Central, satis-
factory to the Association, for the purpose of carrying out Parts
C.1 and D.3 of the Project and shall perform, in accordance with
such contract, all the obligations therein set forth; and (iv)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of


﻿-7-
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower, Banco Central, COHDEFOR and
COHBANA to perform the obligations referred to in sub-paragraphs
(i), (ii) and (ii) hereof, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and
the Loan to Banco Central under a Subsidiary Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Banco Central under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
and the Bank, and which shall include the terms and conditions
established in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower, the Association and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and the Loan, and except as the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 1, 1980 establish and there-
after maintain a Project Executive Committee, satisfactory to
the Bank; such Committee to be chaired by a senior representative
of Banco Central, and to include as permanent members senior
representatives of Ministerio de Hacienda, Ministerio, Instituto,
COHBANA, COHDEFOR, BANAFOM and the Bankers' Association of
Honduras and the Project Director will act as its secretary;
and
(b) cause the Project Executive Committee to be responsible
for, inter alia:
(i) coordinating the activities of the Project Entities
under the Project;
(ii) reviewing the programs, budgets and progress
reports of the Project Entities with regard to the
Project; and
(iii) reviewing and making recommendations to the Project
Director regarding the audit reports referred to in


﻿-8-
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement and the
progress, annual evaluation and project completion
reports made by the Project Unit with regard to the
Project.
Section 3.03. Not later than September 1, 1980, the Borrower
shall establish policies and methods for marketing plantains,
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) keep the Association informed of the progress of the
proposed reorganization of BANAFOM, especially with regard to:
(i) the reorganization of the management of loan
portfolios;
(ii) the writing-off of related loan losses;
(iii) the proposed new regional organization and manage-
ment;
(iv) the policy coordinating mechanisms to be estab-
lished between BANAFOM, Ministerio and Instituto;
(v) the proposed systems to be introduced in the future
unit of trusteeship funds;
(vi) the proposed new statement: of farm-loan policy;
and
(b) give the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such measures.
Section 3.05. (a) Not later than September 1, 1980, the
Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain within COHBANA a
Banana and Plantain Development Administration Unit to be in
charge of the coordination of the development, operation and
maintenance of the facilities and services of the banana and
plantain plantations in the Ulda Valley, such unit to have such
staff, functions and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall cause COHBANA, BANAFOM, Banco
Central, Ministerio, Instituto and Ministerio de


﻿-9-
Hacienda to enter into an agreement, satisfactory
to the Association, to coordinate their participa-
tion in the carrying out of Part A of the Project
and to define the functions and responsibilities of
the Banana and Plantain Development Administration
Unit; and
(ii) such agreement shall, inter alia:
(A) define    in  detail   the   responsiblities
(including   financial    responsibilities),
functions and administrative procedures of the
Project Entities and such Administration
Unit;
(B) establish criteria and procedures, satis-
factory to the Association, for coordinating
their actions under the Project and to solve
any disputes on problems that may arise among
them in relation to the carrying out of the
Project; and
(C) establish methods for recuperating the costs
of the works and services provided by COHBANA
under the Project.
Section 3.06. In order to assist COHDEFOR in carrying out
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause COHDEFOR to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the studies
included in Part C of the Project under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association; and (b) not later than September 1,
1980, present to the Association, for its aproval, a detailed
proposal for the studies included under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
to establish and maintain thereafter, or cause Banco Central to
establish and maintain thereafter, a mechanism adequate to restore
the liquidity of each Participant Intermediary if land held under
any title by a Beneficiary be expropriated as a result of the
enforcement of the Agrarian Reform Law and such Participating
Intermediary shall have become a holder of Agrarian Reform Londs
in substitution for such Participating Intermediary credit against
such Beneficiary under the respective Sub-loan Contract.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of Banco Central under the Project Agreement or
under any Prior Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Banco Central will be able to
parform its obligations under the Project Agreement or under any
previous Agreement or that any Participating Intermediary will be
able to perform its obligations under the respective Project
Administration Contract;
(c) the Borrower shall have taken (i) any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of Banco Central or any Project
Entity or for the suspension of its operations or. (1i) any
other action which may materially and adversely affect the ability
of Banco Central or any Project Entity to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in any agreement entered into
by Banco Central or such Project Entity for purposes of the
Project; and
(d) the Regulations or any provision thereof shall have
been materially amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect the Project adversely.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) (ii)
and (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and Banco Central;
(b) any events specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion (other than the obligation to pay monies) on the part of the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, and such default shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of Banco Central have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and Banco Central, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(c) that the execution and delivery of at least one Project
Administration Contract on behalf of Banco Central and any Parti-
cipating Intermediary, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate action;
(d) that the Association has approved a program to carry out
Part D of the Project;
(e) that the Borrower has taken all measures satisfactory
to the Association to establish the legal framework that shall
transform BANAFOM into an agricultural development bank, with
functions and responsibilities that will, inter alia, enable
BANAFOM to take all measures referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement; and
(f) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Banco Central, and is legally binding upon Banco
Central in accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and Banco Central and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Banco Central in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 3.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito P'blico
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
y Credito PGblico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/!el (--A(  k LUvc
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By IS/ H.:.ijw
Sa    Regional Vice President
Latin merica and the Caribbean


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans to                   4,000,000        77% of amounts
Small-Scale                                    disbursed by
Farmers for                                     Participating
banana and                                      Intermediaries
plantain                                        for purposes
development                                     of the Project
(2)  Sub-loans to                  5,500,000         77% of amounts
Small-Scale                                    disbursed by
Farmers for                                     Participating
other agri-                                     Intermediaries
cultural de-                                    for purposes
velopment                                       of the Project
(3)  Sub-loans to Bene-            7,500,000        70% of amounts
ficiaries other                                 disbursed by
than Small-Scale                               Participating
Farmers                                         Intermediaries
for purposes
of the Project
(4) Civil works and                1,500,000        77%
Engineering and
Common Services
for Part A.3 of
the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(5) Vehicles and equip-              167,000      100% of foreign
ment for Parts B                              expenditures
and E of the Proj-                            and 67% of lo-
ect                                           cal expendi-
tures
(6) Materials and services,        1,241,000      100% of foreign
including salaries                           expenditures
for Parts B and E of                         and 67% of lo-
the Project                                  cal expendi-
tures
(7) Consultant services             460,000       100%
under Parts B and E
of the Project
(8) Training under                  200,000       100% of foreign
Part D of the                                 expenditures
the Project                                  and 67% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures
(9) Studies under Part C           1,800,000      100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
and 67% of
local expendi-
tures
(10) Unallocated                   2,632,000
TOTAL          25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 16 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases, the
Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 may be made in respect of Categories (5) and (6) under
Part B.1 of the Project on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1980;
(b) made by a Project Entity until such Project Entity has
entered into a Project Administration Contract with Banco Central,
satisfactory to the Association;
(c) under Category (4) until the Association has received:
(i) a program, satisfactory to the Association, for cost recovery
from the ultimate Beneficiaries of the works included under Part
A.3 of the Project; (ii) final engineering studies, satisfactory
to the Association, for the first year of investment under Part
A.3 of the Project; and (iii) a program, satisfactory to the
Association, for organizing the Beneficiaries and regulari-
zing the land tenure situation in the Banana and Plantain Develop-
ment areas included in the Project.


﻿- 17 -
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entefed into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will assist the Borrower's national programs of
agricultural development and agrarian reform, principally by:
(a) expanding the area under food crops and for livestock
production to provide more adequate nutrition for the national
population;
(b) improving the contributions of the agricultural sector
to export earnings and import substitution;
(c) increasing employment opportunities and improving family
incomes on farms and in industries associated with the transform-
ation of agricultural products; and
(d) supporting selected institutions for further planning
and development of the agricultural sector and for the con-
servation of natural resources.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   A program in Honduras of:
1.   financing of approved crop and livestock Investment
Plans;
2.   financing the acquisition of machinery to be used for
agricultural development;
3.   civil works, including final engineering studies for
flood protection and land drainage for about 2,400
hectares of banana and plantain development along the
Ulda river; and
4.   financing the building or improvement of municipal
abattoirs.
Part B:   A pilot forestry program in western Honduras, including:
1.   The establishment of:
(i) a nursery for the annual production of about
1,800,000 pine seedlings for a reforestation
program; and


﻿- 19 -
(ii) two nurseri-s for the annual production of about
800,000 broadleaf seedlings for firewood.
2.   A reforestation program of about 3,500 hectares of
pine for timber production on state-owned land.
3.   The development of a forest fire protection system to
cover the Prodero Region, the development of such system
to include the acquisition and utilization of fire-
fighting equipment.
4.   The formation and operation of a forest management unit
for the existing forests in the Prodero Region.
Part C:   Studies
1.   Studies of the water resources and appropriate develop-
ment strategy for a valley or valleys of high agricul-
tural potential to be selected by the Borrower in
consultation with the Bank.
2.   Studies on the use for animal feeding of rejected and
surplus fr .'ts, and leaves and pseudostems of bananas
and plant,,I.
3.   Studies for future improvement of COHBANA's organiza-
tional structure, including, inter alia, management,
administrative, accounting, financial and technical
aspects.
Part D:   Training
1.   About 24 man-months of training for COHBANA staff in
management, accounting, financial and technical matters.
2.   About 24 man-months of training for COHDEFOR staff in
forest management matters.
3.   A program of in-service training for the staff of
Ministerio, Instituto and Participating Intermediaries.
4.   About 8 man-months of foreign training for Project Unit
staff in management, cropping and animal husbandry
matters.


﻿- 20 -
Part E:
Stengthening of the activities and staffing of, and acquisi-
tion and utilization of equipment and vehicles for, the Project
Unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided for in paragraph A.2 of this Sche-
dule, contracts for goods, works and services under Part A
of the Project shall be procured by the Beneficiaries through
regular commercial channels from responsible suppliers, provided,
however, that contracts (other than contracts for consultant
services) expected to exceed the equivalent of $50,000 shall not
be procured by the respective Beneficiary before obtaining: (i)
price quotations from at least three suppliers; and (ii) prior
approval from the respective Participating Intermediary.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part A.3 of the Project
shall be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank, unless such works are carried out directly
by COHBANA or Ministerio through force account.
3.   Contracts for civil works under Part B of the Project
shall be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank, unless such works are carried out directly
by COHDEFOR through force account.
4.   Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for
vehicles and equipment under Parts B and E of the Project shall be
procured through local competitive bidding procedures, acceptable
to the Bank.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts under Parts A.3, B and E of the Project:
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Banco Central shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 22 -
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Banco
Central shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the
Project Director on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
Project Director and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with Part B, Annex 3
and other applicable provisions of the Guidelines, or this Sche-
dule, promptly inform Banco Central and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and before deliv-
ery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Banco Central shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and before delivery to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
deterrines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
Part B, Annex 3 and the applicable provisions of the Guidelines,
or this Schedule, promptly inform Banco Central and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Agreement
A.   The Borrower shall make available to Banco Central the
proceeds of the Credit and Loan under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association and the Bank, including inter alia, the
following: (i) an amount of not less than the equivalent to the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan allocated to Categories (5) to
(8) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the carrying out of Parts
B and D.2 of the Project (to be made available to COHDEFOR for
carrying out such Parts of the Project) shall be relent for 30
years, including a 10-year grace period, under the same terms of
the Credit; (ii) an amount not less than the equivalent to the
proceeds of the Credit and Loan allocated to Category (9) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the carrying out of Parts C.2 and
C.3 of the Project (to be made available to COHBANA for carrying
out such Parts of the Project) shall be relent for 30 years,
including a 10-year grace period, under the same terms of the
Credit; (iii) an amount of not less than the equivalent to the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan allocated to Category (9) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the carrying out of Part C.1 of
the Project as a grant (to be made available to Ministerio, on the
same terms, for carrying out such Part of the Project); (iv)
the remainder of the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent to
Banco Central for 20 years, including a 10-year grace period, at
an interest rate of 2% per annum; and (v) the remainder of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be relent to Banco Central under the
same terms and conditions of the Loan.
B.   The foreign exchange risk on the servicing of the Credit and
the Loan shall be borne by Banco Central with regard to the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan withdrawn from the Credit and
Loan Accounts for financing the carrying out of Parts A, D.1, D.3,
D.4 and E of the Project, and by the Borrower with regard to the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan withdrawn from the Credit and
the Loan Accounts for financing the carrying out of Parts B, C and
D.2 of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have sigr)ed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the /L7fLday of
I91.
FOR SECRETARY


