Report No. 23860
Report No: iO67149 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/01/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CROATIA         Project ID: P067149
Project: Real Property Registration and Cadastre Project          Task Team Leader:
Lynn C. Holstein
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 12, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m): 24.21
Bank Approval: July 2, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSSD     Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the proposed project is to build an efficient land
administration system with the purpose of contributing to the development
of efficient real property markets. This will be achieved by addressing
aspects of the supporting infrastructure, especially the real property
registration system in the municipal courts, the cadastre system that is
operated by the State Geodetic Administration (SGA) at the regional and
branch office levels, and the private sector support professionals.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project would involve the following four components: Component A -
Real Property Registration System Development; Component B - Cadastre
System Development; Component C - Inter-institutional Operations and
Information Technology; Component D - Project Management, Training and
Monitoring. The project would be implemented in a five-year timeframe. A
description of the proposed components follows:
Component A - Real Property Registration System Development. This
component would focus on improving the land book registration system that
operates in the municipal courts under the Land Registration Act, 1996,
thus increasing the security of property rights over real property and
transactions conducted under this system. The component would support the
organization and training of a land registration unit that has been
established in the Ministry of Justice to have oversight of the property
registration function, with the goal that operations be run along
business/corporate plan lines, including the monitoring and evaluation of
property registration. The component would address the present court
backlogs, and focus on improving and streamlining demand-driven
transaction processing, both systematic and sporadic first-time
registration, and apartment registration. It would address computerization
of registration in the registry offices of the four major cities and about
20 other offices. It would also pilot in project years 2 through 5 a
program to provide legal advice to low income owners on property
registration related issues.
Component B - Cadastre System Development. This component would focus on



the establishment of a new integrated cadastre system (under the Law of
State Survey and Real Estate Cadastre, 1999), and ensure that the system
is maintained up-to-date. The component would focus on developing
affordable technical standards and regulations, building a cadastre based
on business/corporate plan principles, training staff and the private
sector, upgrading equipment and offices, implementing quality control
mechanisms, and developing and implementing an information system, and a
multi-spatial information system.
Component C - Inter-institutional Operations and Information Technology.
This component would develop and implement joint operations for the
cadastre and land book registration systems, particularly a program to
achieve harmonization of data between the cadastre offices in the
municipalities and court registry offices. It would do this using joint
systematic methods with the two institutions working together, and data
verification and conversion. It would develop the design of and implement
joint information technology and management systems in the two
institutions.
Component D - Project Management, Training and Monitoring. This component
will support: (i) Project management for the PIU and the institutional
teams in MOJ and SGA; (ii) Legal framework completion including issues
relating to registration, mortgages, foreclosure, apartments, real estate
with non-permitted buildings, extra-legal settlements; (iii) The design
and implementation of a common information technology/information
management (IT/IM) strategy; (iv) Training for SGA, MOJ and the land
registries; (v) A public awareness campaign and consensus building
strategies; (vi) A Service Commercialization and Marketing sub-component
including the development and testing of One-Stop-Shop approaches for
registration and cadastre; (vii) Pilot activities for simplifying the
existing procedures for registering apartments; and (viii) Project
monitoring, evaluation, reporting, including the social aspects, and
customer surveys in the cadastre offices and land book offices.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Nationwide. Under the five year project, the systematic approach to land
registration will be implemented, and about 15 percent of the country will
be targeted. The systematic approach is participatory and to reach
decisions it involves consultations with all landholders, the village
leaders, and neighbors. Because of the need to first test the new
methodologies to be implemented under the project, especially in relation
to apartments, the areas affected by the isseus of returnees will be
excluded for the first two years of project.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The proposed project is not expected to have any direct negative
environmental effect. Indeed the environmental impact of the project is
expected to be positive. Private land ownership supported by the proposed
project is expected to foster more prudent use of land and natural
resources. These positive benefits are expected to be much more
significant than the potential for environmental degradation and pressure
for development, especially in tourist and urban areas, that secure titles
- 2-



will bring. The task team concluded that Croatia has in place all the
appropriate laws to protect environmentally sensitive areas such as those
for water-catchment purposes, forest areas, urban green areas, and to
protect citizens from polluted lands.
Under the Law on Environmental Protection (OG 82/94, 128/99), a review is
mandatory if a proposed project is of a certain character, and it is
expected to have adverse environmental impacts, exceeds a defined size
threshold, or is located in an area designated as environmentally
sensitive. The Environmental Impact Assessment procedure is managed by the
Ministry of the Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPPP) and
is project-centered. MEPPP informed the task team that an EIA would not be
required for the proposed project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
During project preparation, the team assessed that no safeguard policy is
triggered in the case of the proposed project, except for the
environmental assessment OP that applies even if no negative environmental
impact is foreseen, and the project is rated C. However, the team reviewed
the following issues as to their relevance associated with project
implementation:
(i) Forestry: The project in restructuring the cadastre and land books
will include registration of some forest lands. Even though the Law on
Restitution regulates issues related to forestry, privatization of forest
land has not yet started. Much of the forest land needs to be resurveyed,
as many of the plots are undivided and have multiple ownership. The
project will facilitate the process of ascertaining ownership of forest
areas by providing resources for surveying, mapping and proprietary
information collection. To ensure an institutional and project-wide
approach that supports long-term sustainable management of forests, the
project will require that guidelines for project operations in forests are
drawn up, in accordance with the Republic of Croatia and the Bank's
guidelines. Such guidelines will contain information on collection
sources, mechanisms for institutional consultation at the municipal level,
- 3 -



community participation requirements, tenure considerations, methods for
delimitating public and private lands, possible public inspection and
appeals, and approvals. Until guidelines satisfactory to the Bank are
presented, the project will not be implemented in forest areas. A dated
covenant requiring that these guidelines are prepared by March 31, 2003
will be inserted in the Loan Agreement. These guidelines will also apply
to environmentally sensitive land (wetlands, river banks, steep land,
critical habitats etc.).
In the case of national parks and other protective areas (e.g., water
catchment areas), owners have the right to pass the land on to heirs. The
State has a preemptive right in case of sale of private land in these
protective areas, and it is giving grand-fathering conditions to people
who have been traditionally living there. This is in line with what OP
4.36 requires, i.e., that communities should be able to use their
traditional forest areas.
(ii) Involuntary Resettlement: The project will not lead to resettlement.
Despite the recent dispersion of people in the Balkans, actions have been
taken by the Government to facilitate Croatian citizens who have
properties in Bosnia-Herzegovina or Serbia to sell them without having to
return there. The same applies for other ethnic groups who have properties
in Croatia and had to leave because of the war. Private real estate agents
are now facilitating sales of properties across the borders. The lack of
building permits will not lead to resettlement since individuals are in
most cases the owners of the land on which such buildings were
constructed.
(iii) Cultural Property: Satisfactory legislation exists and is enforced
in Croatia for the protection of cultural property. The relevant
legislation comprises the Law on Cultural Heritage Protection, the Law on
Physical Planning, and the regulations applying to the drafting of the
relevant sections of the environmental impact studies. The Ministry of
Culture is responsible for overseeing its protection, with local building
and architectural authorities mandated to issue permits for planning and
construction affecting objects and areas important for cultural heritage.
There is an inventory system for cultural property which undergoes
periodic review and updating. The law addresses the protective procedures
to be followed in the event that culturally important objects are
discovered in the course of land development. Protection of cultural
property in Croatia is affected by various issues such as lack of funding
and political compromise in favor of a development agenda, but there is no
evidence that these issues undermine the fundamental objectives or are
different in degree from those experienced in more developed economies.
The rules of protection of cultural property restrict and override the
development rights arising from private ownership, or indeed any form of
property tenure. Accordingly, protection of cultural property will not be
affected by the project objectives of delineating land boundaries and
clarifying and assuring property rights. Rather, the opposite is true. The
project will benefit the preservation of cultural goods by clarifying
their cadastre and ownership situation, therefore simplifying the task of
urban planners involved in setting the boundaries of protected areas. The
project will help implement the new Law on Cultural Heritage Protection
that defines the duties of the owners, and will also help clarify the
situation in areas of the Dalmatia Coast where several estates have been
- 4 -



left abandoned by the owners who emigrated abroad, and where the State
cannot intervene to ensure their preservation until a successor is
identified.
(iv) Disputed Areas: A study conducted by the legal department of the
World Bank confirmed the absence of claims on the territory of Croatia by
other sovereign entities. Therefore, the safeguard policy on disputed
areas does not apply.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
By supporting private land ownership, the proposed project is expected to
foster more prudent use of land and natural resources.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
To ensure the long-term sustainable management of forests, the project
will require that a guideline for project operations in forests is drawn
up, in accordance with the Republic of Croatia and the Bank's forestry
guidelines.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
A social assessment and legal study have been carried-out which clarify
the relevance of safeguard issues. The national laws, including the law on
environmental protection, the law on restitution and the law on cultural
heritage, are deemed adequate to manage any possible environmental or
social risks.
Although the project does not trigger OP 4.36, an extra effort is made to
ensure the long-term sustainable management of forests, and the project
will require that a guideline for project operations in forests is drawn
up, in accordance with the Republic of Croatia and the Bank's forestry
guidelines.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The representatives of the association of surveyors, the bar association,
the notaries association, and six NGOs representing various property
holder groups, including interests of groups whose property rights were
affected by the civil war in the 1990s and WWII, have been consulted
to-date in regard to the property rights issues. In general these
consultations supported the project and no objections were raised. These
consultations will continue during appraisal and under implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[   S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
- 5 -



significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        Not Available   Not Available
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Lynn C. Holstein         05/01/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   5/1/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Joseph R. Goldberg       5/1/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



