Report No. PID10661
Project Name                     Croatia-Real Property Registration (@)
and Cadastre Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       HRPE67149
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND STATE
GEODETIC ADMINISTRATION
Ms Nevenka Rogan-Skrapec, Head,
Informatics Division, Ministry of
Justice;
and Director General Zeljko Bacic, SGA
Address: SGA, Gruska 20, Zagreb
10000, Croatia
Contact Person: Dr. Zeljko Bacic
Tel: 011 385 1 615 7390
Email: zeljko.bacic@dgu.tel.hr
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 23, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 12, 2002
Bank Approval Date               July 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Legal Framework. Croatia like other neighboring countries has had a parcel
based registration system and the associated cadastre system since the
1880s. Cadastral records are located at the municipal level cadastre
offices (deconcentrated regional and branch offices of the State Geodetic
Administration, in total 116 offices), while the land registry function is
handled by 104 Land Registry Offices of the Municipal Courts. Issues.
Croatia needs to stimulate foreign direct investments to address its
development needs, and streamline administrative and legal procedures to
be in line with European Union standards. There are two main issues
affecting property registration and security of titles: the inconsisetncy
of data and the backlogs of claims in the court system. Mismatch of
Cadastre and Land-Books Data. Many of the problems in land and real estate
markets and in efficient implementation of the property laws can be traced
to the condition of the registries. They derive from the unprecedented
increase in numbers of transactions since privatization started in 1992,
and the related failure to maintain the link between the land book and the
cadastre systems during the communist time, which has resulted in
significant discrepancies between the official records and the actual
state of title on the ground. At present, data defining property in the
court registries differ as much as 50 percent of the cases from those in
the cadastre offices (range 10 to 90 percent). Court Backlogs. The
efficiency of the land registration system varies across the nation
according to the management, staff and office resources, and the degree of
computerization of the land records. In municipal courts backlogs range



from several months in the smaller cities to three years in Zagreb, and
even longer in some coastal cities. This increases the use of informal
transactions and makes the possibility of corruption more likely.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to build an efficient land
administration system with the purpose of contributing to the development
of efficient real property markets. This will be achieved by addressing
aspects of the supporting infrastructure, especially the real property
registration system in the municipal courts, the cadastre system that is
operated by the State Geodetic Administration (SGA) at the regional and
branch office levels, and the private sector support professionals. The
project will (i) accelerate registration in both the cadastre and real
property registration systems; (ii) streamline both systems and the
associated transaction processes; (iii) harmonize data and ensure that
they match with reality by undertaking cadastre re-survey, and land book
registration correction and renewal in a systematic manner in selected
areas of the country; (iv) improve customer relations and service
provision, as well as organize awareness campaigns among stakeholders,
aimed at support professionals, financial institutions, and real property
holders; and (v) address the impediments to the operation of an efficient
mortgage system.The implementation of integrated cadastre and registration
systems to cover the whole country will have to be phased over a period of
fifteen years. The proposed project will cover the first five years of
this comprehensive program, and be focused on selected urban and rural
areas. The criteria for the selection of the priority areas will be
confirmed during appraisal, but will be mainly driven by the demand of
municipalities through the mayors, together with a beneficiary assessment
that will provide critical inputs for the project design.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
By supporting this project, the Bank will contribute to speeding up the
transition to a market economy in a crucial domain in which public
involvement and positive externalities are an important element. The Bank
brings to the task experience gained from operational involvement in this
field in Bulgaria, Slovenia, Albania, Romania, Russia, Moldova,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyztan and many other countries. The Bank is able to
involve other donors in ways the Borrower and other donors alone cannot.
4. Description
The project would involve the following four components: Component A -
Real Property Registration System Development; Component B - Cadastre
System Development; Component C - Inter-institutional Operations and
Information Technology; Component D - Project Management, Training and
Monitoring. The project would be implemented in a five-year timeframe.
Component A - Real Property Registration System Development. This
component would focus on improving the land book registration system that
operates in the municipal courts under the Land Registration Act, 1996,
thus increasing the security of property rights over real property and
transactions conducted under this system. The component would support the
organization and training of the Land Registration Management Unit that
has been established in the Ministry of Justice to have oversight of the
property registration function, with the goal that operations be run along
business/corporate plan lines, including the monitoring and evaluation of
- 2-



property registration. The component would address the present
registration backlogs, and focus on improving and streamlining
demand-driven transaction processing, both systematic and sporadic
first-time registration, and apartment registration. It would address
computerization of registration in the registry offices of the four major
cities and about 20 other offices. It would also pilot in project years 2
through 5 a program to provide legal advice to low income owners on
property registration related issues.
Component B - Cadastre System Development. This component would focus on
the improvement and streamlining of the new integrated cadastre system
(under the Law of State Survey and Real Estate Cadastre, 1999), and ensure
that the system is maintained up-to-date in the regional and branch
offices, operated by the State Geodetic Administration (SGA) and in the
Zagreb city cadastre office. The component would focus on developing
affordable technical standards and regulations, building a cadastre based
on business/corporate plan principles, training staff and the private
sector, upgrading equipment and offices, implementing quality control
mechanisms, and developing and implementing an information system, and a
multi-spatial information system. Operations to up-date the cadastre in
about 5 percent of the country would be undertaken where possible under
component C.
Component C - Inter-institutional Operations and Information Technology.
This component would develop and implement joint field operations for the
cadastre and land book registration systems, particularly a program to
achieve harmonization of data between the municipal cadastre offices and
court registry offices. It would do this using joint systematic
registration and cadastre methods with the two institutions working
together, and data verification and conversion. It would design and
implement joint information and communications technology and management
systems in the two institutions and associated offices.
Component D - Project Management, Training and Monitoring. This component
will support: (i) Project management by the PIU and the institutional
teams in MOJ and SGA; (ii) The improvement of the legal framework for real
property matters; (iii) The design and implementation of a common
information and communications technology/information management (ICT/IM)
strategy for SGA and MOJ and associated offices; (iv) The provision of
training for SGA, MOJ, LRMU and the land registries, and the Zagreb City
Cadastre Office; (v) A public awareness campaign and consensus building
strategies; (vi) a Service Commercialization and Marketing sub-component
including the development and testing of One-Stop-Shop approaches for
registration and cadastre; (vii) Pilot activities for simplifying the
existing procedures for registering apartments, and resulting improvements
to operations; and (viii) Project monitoring, evaluation, reporting,
including the social aspects, and customer surveys in the cadastre offices
and land book offices.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $6.26
IBRD                     $24.21
IDA
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION $4.46
-3-



Total Project Cost       $34.93
6. Implementation
The institutional set up for the project will be organized on three
levels: (i) a Project Steering Committee will provide direction and
guidance to the project; (ii) a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that
will coordinate and implement most of the project's activities, along with
being responsible for procuring and supervising them, and (iii) agency
teams in the MOJ and SGA responsible for ensuring quality under the
project, preparing TORs for activities to be procured under the project
and supervising the PIU. Following is a description of the
responsibilities of each of these three levels of implementation.
Project Steering Committee. A project preparation steering committee (PSC)
was established in late July 2001. This PSC provides guidance to SGA and
MOJ in the preparation of the project, and the PSC duties include: taking
major decisions as presented to it by the PIU and the agency teams in MOJ
and SGA, reviewing the mid-term and final reports for the project scope,
the priority area focus, and the planned budgets, coordinating donors'
interventions, and guiding the project through Government and Parliament.
It is envisaged that it would meet about once every two months. At present
the PSC is made up of representatives of the Ministry of Justice (MOJ),
the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPPP),
SGA, the Supreme Court, and the Office for Legislation of the GOC. For
project implementation, membership of the PSC will be extended to include
representatives of MOF, the land book offices, and the head of the PIU as
secretary. An Advisory Committee would support the PSC on project related
matters, and would include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry, the Ministry of European Integration, the Association of
Cities, NGOs concerned with real property, real property owners
associations, donor agency experts, expert university faculty staff from
geodesy as well as from law schools, and other members as appropriate.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU). One PIU would be established with staff
members from both institutions and consultants, and will be directly
subordinated to the PSC, for the reason that there are two major equal
partners in the project and the coordination of their respective
activities is essential for the success of the project. The PIU will be
responsible for project implementation, and serve as a secretariat to the
PSC, and ensure the coordination of the activities related to the
improvement of the property registration and cadastre systems implemented
respectively by the MOJ and SGA.Agency Teams. Staff of MOJ and SGA will be
appointed to guide, monitor and supervise the work of the PIU in the
execution of components A - Real Property Registration System Development
- and B - Cadastre System Development - respectively, and support the PIU
in the execution of components C - Inter-agency Operations and Information
Technology - and D - Project Management, Training and Monitoring. A Land
Registration Management Unit within MOJ has been established to have
oversight of real property registration in the 112 municipal courts in
Croatia. As part of the project this unit would manage the renewal and
modernization program in the court real property registry offices,
coordinate with SGA, support the registry managers in the municipal
courts, undertake planning and set priorities for and ensure that the
courts have the resources to do the project tasks, monitor outcomes and
implementation, development of the annual work plan and budget for the
project, and review the laws and regulations on an on-going basis. In SGA,
a cadastre department is responsible for the activities proposed under the
- 4 -



project, and will have oversight of the reform of the cadastre in the 116
regional and branch offices.Retroactive Financing. The option of
retroactive financing will be used to fund eligible expenditures for
preparation activities incurred before project effectiveness. Procurement
will be done according to World Bank rules, and the approval of the World
Bank will be requested whenever necessary.
7. Sustainability
The project will explore possibilities of partial/full cost recovery to
cover the cost of maintenance of the cadastre and real property
registration system within the structure of corporate/business plans that
will be developed. Experience in other countries indicates that local real
property registration and cadastre offices can become self-financing from
fees for recording of transactions, registration, maps and other
enquiries, once the investment in initial registration is made. Currently
the cadastre offices recover about 20 percent of their costs while the
registry offices in the municipal courts substantially recover their costs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Previous experience of land registration in other East European countries
indicates that such projects must be highly focused on attainable
objectives and targets. The necessary commitment from the Government,
including legislation and a simple institutional set up, are critical for
the success of the project.In the ECA region in 2002, there are currently
16 projects in as many countries with land administration components, with
8 of them classified as stand-alone projects. This experience indicates
that there is a need for such projects to have a strong focus on land
administration, to have solid government support and simple institutional
frameworks. Often the ministries of justice in several projects have
needed to strengthen their focus on real property registration by measures
that have included establishing a land registration division or department
to manage and to have oversight over the registry function as operated in
the courts. Moreover, the management issues in land administration
projects have been recognised as being more important than technical
issues.Previous experience in related projects in Slovenia, Romania and
lately in Bulgaria has shown the need for a single strong PIU that would
work in cooperation with teams in the two partner agencies, which for
Croatia means the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of
Justice.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project does not trigger any safeguards'
policy. However, the project will not be implemented in forestry areas
until guidelines satisfactory to the Bank will be prepared, which might
include: collection sources of existing information, institutional
consultation at the municipal level, community participation requirements,
tenure considerations, delimitation of public and private lands,
consultation requirements with land communities, public inspection and
appeals, and approvals.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
-5-



Lynn C. Holstein
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-4735986
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 31, 2002.
- 6 -



