Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
LOAN NUMBER 4674 HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Real Property Registration and Cadastre Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 18, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4674 HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Union (the EU) a grant 
in an amount equivalent to Euro 5,000,000 to assist in carrying the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
EU (the EU Grant Agreement); and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
“LRMU” means a Land Registration Management Unit established 
within the MOJ pursuant to the Decree No. 4/2002 on Amendments to the Decree on the 
Structure of the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Governance; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, Administration and 
Local Self-Governance, or any legal successor thereto; 
 
(d) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 1 
(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“SGA” means the State Geodetic Administration under the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning, or any legal successor 
thereto; and 
 
(f) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to twenty-six 
million Euro (EUR 26,000,000).  
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euro a special deposit account in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2008, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the effective date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin for such Interest Period below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
Page  5
-
4
-
said Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to said Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.  
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, technical services and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02
.
(
a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: 
 
(a) 
The EU Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction 
Page  8
-
7
-
of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
(i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to use the EU Grant made to the Borrower for the 
carrying out of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the EU 
Grant Agreement providing therefor. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the EU Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
(c) Effectiveness 
Date; 
Termination 
 
Section 
6.01.  The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Borrower shall have submitted to the Bank a decision of Co-
Chairpersons of the Project Steering Committee, satisfactory to the Bank, defining the 
status, functions, decision-making process and reporting arrangements for the Project 
Steering Committee and the PIU.  
 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of      
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Katan i eva 5
 
10000 Zagreb 
 
Croatia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
862-21215  
385-1-492-2583 
 
862-28133  
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
 (202)477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By  /s/  Mato Crkvenac   
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By   /s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
 
Director 
 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the    
     % of 
 
Loan Allocated  
 Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Euro)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
400,000 
82% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
6,250,000   
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100% of local expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost), and  
 
80%
of  local expenditures 
 
for other items procured locally 
 
(3) Technical 
services 
10,400,000 
82% 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services, 
5,950,000 
100% of expenditures incurred   
 
audit and training 
 
by foreign consultants 
and  
 
75% of expenditures incurred 
 
by
local consultants 
 
(5) Service 
contracts 
800,000 
82% 
 
(6) 
Operating costs 
1,200,000 
70% of expenditures incurred 
 
prior to December 31, 2003; 
 
50%
of expenditures incurred 
 
prior to December 31, 2004;  
 
and 30% of expenditures 
 
incurred thereafter 
 
(7) 
Fee 
260,000 
Amount due under Section 2.04 
 
of
this Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
740,000
TOTAL 26,000,000 
 
======== 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures incurred on the account of the 
training activities under the Project and includes trainees’ fees, transportation costs for 
trainees and trainers, per diem allowances for trainees and trainers, cost of study tours 
and translation; 
 
(d) 
the term “technical services” means services for carrying out cadastre 
surveying, orthophoto mapping, development of information technology systems and 
other services to be contracted under the Project on the basis of performance of 
measurable physical outputs; 
 
(e) 
the term “service contracts” means  the cost of services for carrying out 
data entry and verification, typing and clerical work in land registry offices of municipal 
courts; and 
 
(f) 
the term “operating costs” means: (i) incremental operating costs 
incurred on account of Project implementation by the PIU, Institutional Teams and 
LRMU, including communications costs, transportation costs, fuel, vehicle maintenance, 
office equipment and supplies, equipment maintenance and audit costs; and (ii) travel 
costs and per diem allowances for the staff of municipal courts assigned to work in 
different locations. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except  that withdrawals under categories (2), (4) and (6), in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of Euro 260,000, may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures incurred before that date but after February 1, 2002. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) works under contracts costing less 
than the equivalent of $600,000 each; (b) goods and technical services under 
contracts costing less than the equivalent of $300,000 each; (c) services provided 
by consulting firms under contracts costing less than the equivalent of $200,000 
each; (d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than the equivalent of $50,000 each; and (e) training and operating costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in developing an efficient 
land administration system in order to improve functioning of real property markets 
through enhancing the land registration and cadastre systems.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Real Property Registration System Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the Land Registration and 
Management Unit (LRMU) within the MOJ.  
 
2. 
Streamlining and computerization of the demand-driven and systematic land 
registration processes in municipal courts through provision of computer equipment, 
software development of necessary methodologies, implementation of a strategy to 
manage and reduce the volume of paper records in the land book offices, including 
through their conversion into digital format, and the formulation of activity plans for the 
municipal courts. 
 
3. 
Provision of technological and technical support for managing and administering 
the information systems in municipal courts and the LRMU, including the provision of 
“help-desk” facilities. 
 
4. 
Assistance in the implementation of a registration backlog alleviation program to 
clear backlogs in the land registry offices of municipal courts, including the use of 
contracted workers for conversion of paper records into digital format, data verification 
and entry and other measures. 
 
5. 
Assistance in the development and implementation of a program of legal 
assistance for the most disadvantaged citizens in the area of property rights. 
 
Part B
:
Cadastre System Development
1. 
Provision of assistance to the State Geodetic Administration (SGA) and to the 
Zagreb City Cadastre Office to streamline and develop new technical standards and 
regulations for the cadastre system and for the development and implementation of a 
strategy to manage and reduce paper records in the cadastre system, and to develop and 
implement business and corporate plans. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
Provision of technological support and technical assistance to selected regional 
branches of the SGA and the Zagreb City Cadastre Office in administering information 
systems, including the provision of “help-desk” facilities. 
 
3. 
Provision of assistance to the SGA to develop and implement a multipurpose 
spatial information system through the provision of technical assistance, IT system design 
and equipment, training, and data conversion contracts. 
 
4. 
Provision of equipment and technical assistance for the SGA headquarters, 
regional and branch cadastre offices, the Croatian Geodetic Institute and the Zagreb City 
Cadastre Office and implementation of quality control mechanisms.    
 
Part C
:
Inter-Institutional Operations and Information Technology
1. 
Provision of assistance for the initial data verification, entry and conversion into 
the land registration systems based on electronic data processing of existing data, stored 
in the land books. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of cadastral mapping and land book renewal including: (a) aerial 
mapping; (b) systematic cadastre surveys; (c) matching and resolving conflicting parcel 
and land holder information between the two systems; and (d) the final production of new 
cadastre registers and maps, and land book renewals. 
 
3. 
Design and implementation of joint information and communication technology 
systems for the SGA offices, MOJ, Zagreb City Cadastre Office and land registries in the 
municipal courts. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management, Training and Monitoring
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the PIU, MOJ and SGA for 
project management, including in the areas of: project planning, procurement, 
disbursement, project financial management (including the budgetary process), 
monitoring and evaluation, information technology, and reporting.  
 
2. 
Provision of training to the MOJ, SGA, LRMU and the Zagreb City Municipal 
Office and land registries in municipal courts, including in the areas of basic computer 
skills, cadastre, property registration, information technologies, land law, and 
management and marketing, 
 
3. 
Analysis of the existing legal framework for certain areas of real estate, 
including, 
inter alia
,
registration procedures for buildings, apartment and business 
premises, including common property and adjacent land; registration of buildings 
constructed without construction permit; mortgage registration, and methods of limiting 
disputed cases going to court, and assistance in strengthening and improving the legal 
framework in those areas. 
Page  15
-
14
-
4. 
Design and implementation of information technology/information management 
and communications strategies for the MOJ and the municipal court land registry offices, 
and the SGA and its regional and branch offices, and the Zagreb City Cadastre Office. 
 
5. 
Carrying out public awareness campaign at both national and local levels 
targeting land-holders and professionals, with a focus on building awareness of  property 
rights and duties, registration obligations and encouraging participation and awareness of 
cadastre and registration. 
 
6. 
Development of strategies and testing of improved service approaches for 
customers and land holders by joint approaches in information marketing in both the real 
property registry and cadastre registration offices including the development and testing 
of one-stop-shop concepts.  
 
7. 
Provision of assistance to conduct pilot projects in apartment registration testing 
combined the SGA and MOJ approaches aimed at simplifying the existing registration 
procedures and evaluation of the pilots, and the development and implementation of new 
guidelines and regulations. 
 
8. 
Provision of assistance to the PIU and the Institutional Teams in the SGA and 
MOJ in Project monitoring and reporting, including carrying out of cust
omers’ surveys. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 30, 2008. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Euro
*)  
 
On each May 15 and November 15, 
 
beginning May 15, 2008  
through November 15, 2017 
 
 
1,300,000 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Technical Services
Part A
:
General
Goods, works and technical services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec
tion I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and 
technical services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for goods and technical services for design and 
implementation of information systems, supply of customized software, data entry design 
for the cadastre and the registration system in the municipal courts shall be carried out in 
two stages in accordance with the provision of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $600,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, (b) goods estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 
equivalent, and (c) technical services estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,500,000 equivalent, may be 
Page  18
-
17
-
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
(a)  
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,150,000 equivalent, and (b) technical services 
estimated to be cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
3. National 
Shopping
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, and (b) technical services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
(a)   Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, and (b) technical services estimated 
to cost less that $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
5. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature, or must be purchased from the original 
supplier to be compatible with the existing equipment, and costing $3,200,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank
’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section; and (ii) the first contract for 
works and technical services to be procured in accordance with the provision of Part C.1 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for: (i) goods and technical services  
procured under Part C.2 and C.3 of this Section; and (ii) small works procured under Part 
C.4, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
international shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of  
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7  and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for carrying out an audit of the Project accounts and estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of $400,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Single-Source 
Selection
Services for further development of proprietary software estimated to cost less 
than $400,000 equivalent in aggregate, may, with the Bank
’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultants Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by clerks and other contractors under Part B of the 
Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, whereby 
jobs shall be advertised locally and the employment terms and unit costs for contractors 
shall be agreed upon with the Bank. 
 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, prior to the issuance of any requests for 
proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank.  
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.  
 
Page  22
-
21
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:   
 
(a) 
maintain the PIU with resources, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank and with staff, whose qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(b) 
maintain the Project Steering Committee co-chaired by appointed 
representatives of the MOJ and SGA and comprising other representatives agreed upon 
with the Bank, including the Project Director, which shall be responsible for overseeing 
and evaluating the Project implementation and performing its functions based on the 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
maintain Institutional Teams within the MOJ and SGA which shall 
provide guidance, monitor and supervise the work of the PIU; and 
 
(d) 
maintain the Working Group comprising, 
inter alia
,
representatives of 
the MOJ, SGA, land registries in the municipal courts, SGA regional offices and the 
Zagreb Municipal Court Registry Office, and the Zagreb Cadastre Office which shall 
provide advice on Project implementation to the Project Steering Committee, PIU, MOJ 
and SGA.   
 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 10, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the LRMU within the MOJ, with a mandate, staff, 
financial and other resources satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall, 
inter alia
,
oversee 
the implementation of Part A of the Project in association with the PIU, and the 
implementation of Parts C and D of the Project in association with the SGA and the PIU. 
 
4. 
Not later than March 31, 2003, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank adopted 
guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, providing instructions to cadastre offices, the 
surveyors and the registry offices on conducting surveys, mapping and proprietary 
information collection in forest areas in a manner that ensures support for a long-term 
sustainable protection of forests.  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) cause the SGA and, through the LRMU, municipal courts 
to develop, not later than June 30, 2004, activity plans for carrying out their cadastre and 
property registration functions, respectively, including, but not limited to, the analysis of 
projected operating expenses and revenues to be generated by their respective activities; 
and (b) ensure that implementation of the above-referenced activity plans will commence 
not later that January 31, 2005. 
 
6. 
Not later than January 31, 2004, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank  
regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth modified procedures for efficient and 
expedient registration of buildings, apartments, adjacent land and common property; and 
thereafter implement these within an agreed timetable.  
 
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 2003, develop an 
information technology and information management strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, 
and (b) commence its implementation by February 28, 2004. 
 
8. 
Not later than November 30 of each year during Project implementation, 
commencing from November 30, 2002, the PIU shall prepare and furnish to the Bank and 
the Project Steering Committee, an annual working plan for the Project, including the 
budget and procurement plan, all satisfactory to the Bank and the Project Steering 
Committee. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and incremental operating costs required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to Euro 
1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to Euro 500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of Euro 3,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
Page  26
-
25
-
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
