                                       Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001203



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IBRD-46740; TF-51781; TF-52657; TF-55104)



                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 26.0 MILLION
                        (US$ 36.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                         FOR A

         REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND CADASTRE PROJECT



                                  December 14, 2010




Sustainable Development Unit
Central/South Europe and the Baltics
Europe and Central Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective September 31, 2010)

                           Currency Unit = EURO
                             EURO 1.00 = US$ 1.366
                               US$ 1.00 = EURO 0.73

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CARDS       Community Assistance for Reconstruction, Development and Stabilization
CNB         Croatia National Bank
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EU          European Union
EUR         Euro
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment
FM          Financial Management
GOC         Government of Croatia
GNP         Gross National Product
HRK         Croatian Kuna
ICT/IM      Information and Communications Technology/Information Management
JIS         Joint Information System
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
LRMU/S      Land Registration Management Unit/Sector
LRO         Land Registry Office
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MSIS        Multi-purpose Spatial Information System
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOJ         Ministry of Justice
NGO         Non-Government Organization
NSDI        National Spatial Data Infrastructure
NPV         Net Present Value
OCC         Opportunity Cost of Capital
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RETT        Real Estate Transfer Tax
SA          Social Assessment
SGA         State Geodetic Administration

            Vice President                             Philippe Le Houerou
           Country Director                               Peter Harrold
           Sector Manager                                John Kellenberg
         Project Team Leader                             Victoria Stanley
          ICR Team Leader                                   Tony Lamb
                              CROATIA
          REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND CADASTRE PROJECT

                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet

A. Basic Information .................................................................................................. i
B. Key Dates .............................................................................................................. i
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................... i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................. ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................. iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................ vi
H. Restructuring ...................................................................................................... vii
I. Disbursement Profile ........................................................................................... vii

Main

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................. 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ............................................................................. 22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................. 36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 49
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................... 51
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................ 55
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ..................................................................... 56
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................... 62


MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Real Property
Country:                Croatia                  Project Name:             Registration & Cadastre
                                                                           Project
                                                                           IBRD-46740,TF-
Project ID:             P067149                  L/C/TF Number(s):         51781,TF-52657,TF-
                                                                           55104
ICR Date:               09/30/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           CROATIA
Original Total          EURO 26.0 M                                        EURO 26.0 M
                                                 Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:             (USD 25.7M)                                        (USD 34.1M)
                        EURO 26.0 M
Revised Amount:
                        (USD 25.7M)
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 State Geodetic Administration
 Project Implementation Unit
 Ministry of Justice
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Commission

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/29/2001      Effectiveness:                               02/20/2003
Appraisal:            03/18/2002      Restructuring(s):                            06/05/2009
Approval:             08/29/2002      Mid-term Review:           02/06/2006        02/16/2006
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2008        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Satisfactory         Government:         Satisfactory


                                                 i
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       25                   35
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        40                   25
Law and justice                                                         35                   40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to law and justice                                               14                   10
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                        14                   10
Land administration and management                                      29                   45
Personal and property rights                                            29                   25
Rural markets                                                           14                   10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:            Peter C. Harrold                     Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:              John V. Kellenberg                   Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:         Victoria Stanley                     Lynn C. Holstein
ICR Team Leader:             Victoria Stanley
ICR Primary Author:          Anthony John Lamb




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to build an efficient land administration system with the
purpose of contributing to the development of efficient real property markets.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

 (a) PDO Indicator(s): The original PAD Results Framework is in the old logframe form,
therefore for ICR purposes the presentation of the indicators has been retrofitted below. A
comparison of the old and new formats is provided in Annex 2.

                                               Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                                 Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target      Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values       Target Years
                  A reduced transaction turn-around time in project areas ­ showing an increase in
Indicator 1 :
                  efficiency of the land administration system.
                                                                                40% of offices
                                              sales and                         register sales within
                  average time to register a mortgages                          7 days; mortgages
                  sale transaction in land    registered within 5               registered within 6
Value             registry more than 900      days; extracts from               days nationwide;
quantitative or   days; for cadastre          land registry                     extracts issued
Qualitative)      information, average time issued within 2                     within one day
                  for an extract to be issued days; extracts from               nationwide for both
                  is several weeks            cadastre issued in                land registry and
                                              one day                           cadastre
                                                                                information
Date achieved     01/01/2003                  09/30/2008                        06/30/2010
                  The 5 day target for sales transactions was overly ambitious and the increase in
Comments
                  new transactions was much more than expected (55% increase over four years)
(incl. %
                  impacting on the speed of transaction processing. Target met for both mortgage
achievement)
                  registration and issuing of extracts.
                  Pilot the integrated business processes and new information technology system in
Indicator 2 :
                  2 locations.
                                                                                new information
                                                                                system and
Value
                                                                                integrated business
quantitative or   no offices integrated                           2 locations
                                                                                processes
Qualitative)
                                                                                operational in 2
                                                                                locations
Date achieved     01/01/2003                                      12/31/2009    06/30/2010
Comments
              The above indicator was formally revised during restructuring in 2009 to better
(incl. %
              reflect project activities. Target met.
achievement)




                                                  iii
                  Raise the level of consistency between the data held in the cadastre and land
Indicator 3 :
                  registry and the real situation on the ground in 5% of the country.
Value
quantitative or   unknown                                       5%              6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2003                                    12/31/2009      06/30/2010
Comments
                  The above indicator was formally revised during restructuring in 2009 to better
(incl. %
                  reflect project activities. Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Decreased volume of backlog of cases in the land registry offices.
Value
quantitative or   314,243                    0                                  55,278
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2003                   09/30/2008                          06/30/2010
Comments          Target set was ambitious and did not anticipate the tremendous growth of new
(incl. %          applications. Annual applications to the land registry nearly doubled within the
achievement)      first three years of the project. Still 80% of the backlog eliminated.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) The original PAD Results Framework is in the old
logframe form, therefore for ICR purposes the presentation of the indicators has been retrofitted
below. A comparison of the old and new formats is provided in Annex 2

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Digitization of land registry data.
                                          digitizing of land
Value                                                                      100% of land
                                          registry data
(quantitative   0% digitized                                               registry data
                                          complete for all
or Qualitative)                                                            digitized.
                                          LROs
Date achieved 01/01/2003                  12/31/2009                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Business plan completed.
                                                                           Business plan
Value
                                          Business plan                    completed and
(quantitative   no business plans
                                          completed                        implementation
or Qualitative)
                                                                           underway
Date achieved 01/01/2003                  12/31/2009                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Increased apartment registration in the land books.
Value           unknown; 356,156 in                                        690,667 apartments
                                          continued growth
(quantitative   2005                                                       registered

                                                  iv
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2003                   12/31/2009                     06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                MOJ and SGA to set-up training programs and provide training to staff including
Indicator 4 :
                technical, legal, IT and management training.
Value                                      At least 400 staff
                                                                          more than 8,000
(quantitative   0                          trained per year
                                                                          staff trained
or Qualitative)                            (200 per entity).
Date achieved 01/01/2003                   12/31/2009                     06/30/2010
Comments

Indicator 5 :     Reduced cost of cadastre and land registry transactions.
                                                                                  reduction in
                                                                                  transaction
                                                                                  processing times
Value                                                                             and in number of
                                              no target values
(quantitative     n/a                                                             visits to LR;
                                              given
or Qualitative)                                                                   increased access to
                                                                                  data online (20
                                                                                  million hits per year
                                                                                  for LR data)
Date achieved     01/01/2003                  09/30/2008                          06/30/2010
                  The social assessment at the time of preparation found that the main complaint of
                  citizens regarding the costs of registration had to do with complexity and time,
                  not fees. Fees are already low (EUR35) and reduction in costs is therefore
Comments          mostly in time savings to citizens and professionals who do not have to visit
(incl. %          multiple times due to online access; and reduced transaction processing times.
achievement)      According to the 2009 customer survey, more than 50% or respondents had their
                  requests settled in one day. In the land registry, the 2009 customer survey also
                  found that 71% of respondents felt the fees were appropriate, up from 49% in
                  2006.
                  New social actors increasingly involved in land administration process as
Indicator 6 :
                  measured by participation in Advisory Committee.
                                                                                  Advisory
                                                                                  Committee
                                                                                  established and
                                                                                  meeting; working
Value
                                                                                  group for IT system
(quantitative     limited interaction         no target given
                                                                                  also established for
or Qualitative)
                                                                                  outside groups;
                                                                                  regular customer
                                                                                  surveys held (2006,
                                                                                  2009)
Date achieved     01/01/2003                  09/30/2008                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                                                   v
                Improved legal framework for land markets, particularly in relation to the
Indicator 7 :
                apartment registration.
                                                                               Improved
                                                                               apartment
                                                                               registration
                                                                               procedure and
                                           no target given; at
                                                                               amendments to 2
Value                                      a minimum
                                                                               laws and numerous
(quantitative   n/a                        improved
                                                                               rules and
or Qualitative)                            apartment
                                                                               regulations to
                                           registration
                                                                               simplify and
                                                                               improve
                                                                               registration
                                                                               procedures
Date achieved 01/01/2003                   09/30/2008                          06/30/2010
Comments
                 For instance judges are no longer legally required to be involved in registration,
(incl. %
                authorized legal clerks can now perform the registration function.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     11/27/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     01/24/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     08/04/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.50
  4     12/09/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.94
  5     06/23/2004            Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     1.49
  6     08/27/2004            Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     2.00
  7     01/06/2005            Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     3.42
  8     04/07/2005            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               5.66
  9     10/24/2005            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      8.20
 10     03/08/2006            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    11.78
 11     10/17/2006            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    13.62
 12     04/12/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    17.89
 13     11/13/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    21.37
 14     05/07/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    22.04
 15     11/10/2008            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             25.05
 16     12/18/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    25.85
 17     04/29/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    29.12
 18     10/04/2009            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             31.34
 19     11/06/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    31.34
 20     02/24/2010            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    32.83
 21     06/20/2010            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    32.83




                                                vi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Two KPI and one loan covenant
 06/05/2009                S       S         30.33
                                                     revised.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In the late 1990s, Croatia had made much progress in moving towards a competitive
market-based economy. The real property market, which was rapidly developing, was a
major contributor to expanding economic activity, particularly in Zagreb and the coastal
areas. However, as in many other countries of the region, the registration and cadastre
systems that supported the real property market were poorly maintained. At the time of
appraisal in 2002, it was apparent that improvements to the systems were needed to avoid
the drag on economic activity and social discord caused by unreliable and slow
registration and cadastre systems. Common problems included delays and difficulties in
ascertaining ownership and acquiring land, and registering transactions. In this context,
the use of property as collateral for loans was severely restricted, as was foreign
investment in real estate.

The Bank's 2001 Country Assistance Strategy specified seven main areas of intervention,
of which two were directly addressed by the Project: (i) improving governance and (ii)
creating the conditions for competitive real property sector development. At the time of
appraisal, the Project was seen as a means to improve governance through the building of
an accountable and effective public administration; and introduce improvements to the
legal framework, which in turn would facilitate the protection of property rights and
contracts. In doing so, the Project was to complement work initiated under the Court and
Bankruptcy Administration Project (LN4613-HR, 2002-2007). The Project was to further
contribute to the governance objective by improving the functioning and capacity of
public institutions dealing with cadastre and property registration, and thus ensuring that
they would deliver trustworthy, transparent and predictable services in a timely and cost
effective manner.

By improving administrative efficiency, reducing procedural barriers and removing
impediments to quick and secure registration, and by fostering greater certainty in
property rights, the Project also planned to improve the conditions for the operation of
property and mortgage markets, and thus improve the environment for foreign and
domestic investment in real property. The Project was consistent with the Governments
five year plan of 2001 to improve and promote the environment for real estate security
and investment, which specified a wide range of activities that would bring Croatia closer
in line with the real estate systems in European Union (EU) countries. The Project was
therefore finalized in close cooperation with the European Commission (EC) which
agreed to provide significant EU co-financing.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to build an efficient land administration
system with the purpose of contributing to the development of efficient real estate
markets. This was to be done by improving the cadastre system managed by the State


                                            1
Geodetic Administration (SGA) and the land registry located in the municipal courts and
managed by the Ministry of Justice (MOJ). Key indicators for the PDO were:

       offices in five percent of the country would be integrated and operational using
       the best available practice and technology and fully in compliance with the long
       term aspirations embodied in the land registration and cadastre laws;
       a raised level of consistency between the data held in the cadastre and those held
       in the related land books in the areas included in the project to 80 percent;
       a decreased volume of backlogs in the municipalities targeted by the project so
       that by 2006 no cases should remain unregistered for more than one year;
       a reduced cost of cadastre and real property transactions;
       an increased number of apartments registered in the land books;
       a reduced transaction turn around time in the project areas according to the
       specified parameters that would see sales and mortgages registered in five days by
       2006, extracts of titles to be delivered within two days by 2006, and map data to
       be supplied within one day by 2006;
       an improved legal framework for land markets, particularly in relation to the
       apartment registration systems in the cadastre and land registry offices;
       increased participation of new social actors (NGOs, private businesses) in the land
       registration and titling process measured through their participation in an advisory
       committee and regional consultative groups.

1.3 Revised PDO (As approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justifications

In mid-2009, two key indicators were changed to allow more realistic measurement of the
PDO, which remained unchanged, and to better support the sustainability of Project
achievements. This was done through a formal restructuring with Country Director
approval.

The first of the two indicators related to the integration of the land registry and cadastre
systems: "offices in 5% of the country will be integrated and operational using the best
available practice and technology." Local SGA offices and Land Registry Offices
(LROs) were already operationally integrated across the country and using the best
available technology because the procedures used in both cadastre and LROs were in
conformity and the offices computerized. The Project supported further integration of the
databases and procedures through a new joint information system (JIS). The JIS would be
piloted in two locations under the Project and implemented nation-wide using
government funds. Such systems need to be implemented ,,office by office and an
indicator stating ,,5% of the country is misleading. Thus the new wording of the indicator
was both more specific and more accurate: "pilot the integrated business processes and
new IT system in two locations."

The second indicator related to the consistency of the data held in the LROs and cadastre.
As outlined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD): "the main problems with both
systems are the discrepancies between them and the differences with reality, and the


                                             2
resulting delays in registration." The indicator chosen to measure progress focused on
"raising the level of consistency of the data held in the cadastre and those held in the
related land books," without mention of the actual situation on the ground. In addition,
the baseline data for this indicator could not be substantiated by the implementing
agencies. The key to meeting the PDO is that data held by both agencies and the
situation on the ground are in conformity, so that the public can trust the records and
undertake transactions with confidence. Therefore, it was agreed that a more accurate
measure would focus on the updating of the cadastre and LRO data with the situation on
the ground. The goal was set to pilot this updating for five percent of the country.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The target population identified in the PAD was specified as those who own real estate,
farmers, lenders, investors, owner-occupiers, tenants, financial institutions, businesses,
industries and land owning government departments. In addition, it was expected that
there would be additional benefits for individuals, private companies and government
agencies with subsidiary interests in real property, such as rights of access, easements and
water and mineral exploitation licences.

1.5 Original Components

The Project was composed of four components: (a) real property registration system
development; (b) cadastre system development; (c) inter-institutional operations and
information technology; and (d) project management, training and monitoring.

(a) Real Property Registration System Development: The primary purpose of this
component was to increase the security of registered rights over real property and the
efficient registration of transactions under the land book system operat ing in the
municipal courts. The Component was to address the backlog of applications for
registration that existed at the time of appraisal, and focus on improving and streamlining
demand-driven transaction processing, both systematic and sporadic first-time
registration, and apartment registration. The Component was to address computerization
of the LROs and also pilot a program to provide legal advice to low income owners on
property registration related issues. At the management level, the Component planned to
improve the registration system by supporting the establishment of the Land Registration
Management Unit (LRMU) 1 within the MOJ. This Unit would be responsible for
providing oversight of the property registration function, with the goal that operations
would be run along business lines, including monitoring and evaluation, capacity
building, and improved governance.

(b) Cadastre System Development: The primary objective of this component was to
improve the operations and information of SGAs cadastre offices. The Project planned
to focus on improving and streamlining of the new integrated cadastre system and ensure


1
  The LRMU was promoted to the Land Registration Management Sector (LRMS) in 2004, which
increased its standing within the Ministry of Justice and increased staffing levels.


                                               3
that the system would be maintained in the regional and branch offices. The Component
was to focus on developing affordable technical standards and regulations, building a
cadastre based on business/corporate plan principles, training staff and the private sector,
upgrading equipment and offices, implementing quality control mechanisms, and
developing and implementing an information system and a multi-purpose spatial
information system (geo-portal).

(c) Inter-institutional Operations and Information Technology: This Component was
aimed at overcoming the problems arising for a dual system of legal registration operated
by the MOJ through the municipal courts, and land parcel registration operated by SGA.
The Project sought to develop and implement joint field operations for the cadastre and
land book registration systems, particularly a program to achieve harmonization of data
held in the cadastre, the land books and the situation on the ground. It was to do this
using systematic registration and cadastre methods with the two implementing agencies
working together, and data verification and conversion. The Component was also to
design and implement joint information technology in the two agencies and associated
offices in order to streamline and improve services.

(d) Project Management, Training and Monitoring. This component was planned to
support: (a) project management by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); (b)
improvement of the legal framework for real property matters; (c) the design and
implementation of a common information and communications technology (ICT)
strategy; (e) the provision of training for government officials connected with Project
objectives and activities, particularly in the courts and cadastre offices; (f) a public
awareness campaign; (g) a service commercialization strategy and marketing sub-
component including the development and testing of one-stop-shop approaches for
registration and cadastre; (h) pilot activities for simplifying the existing procedures for
registering apartments; and, (i) project monitoring and reporting, including customer
surveys.

1.6 Revised Components

Due to a change in a loan covenant concerning business planning, there were minor
changes to components A, B and C regarding the preparation of business plans (see 1.7
below).

1.7 Other significant changes

In mid-2009, the covenant in the loan agreement requiring a business plan for the SGA
and activity plans for the LROs was modified to reflect the fact that both are fully
budgetary entities and the government had continuously provided budget funds to cover
their activities. The covenant was modified to target a key aspect of Project sustainability,
which is the support and maintenance of the Real Property Registry and Cadastre Joint
Information System (JIS), and which requires funding to ensure its continued operation
after Project closure. The covenant was therefore amended to specify the development of
a joint business plan for the JIS. Consequently, minor changes to the project component



                                             4
descriptions were required in the loan agreement to omit references to business plans in
Components A and B, and to add mention of the plan to Component C. All other aspects
of the Project remained unchanged.

The original closing date for the Project was September 30, 2008. This was extended to
December 15, 2009 due to delays in the development of the JIS and a strong response
from the Borrower to improve JIS implementation and reduce the scope of the contract to
make up for the delays. The closing date was further extended to June 30, 2010 to allow
for completion of the final delivery of the JIS. Overall, a 21 month extension of the
Project closing date was necessary to complete the implementation of the JIS, which was
recognized by both the Bank and the client as essential to the successful completion of
the Project and the land administration reforms. The JIS fully integrates the land registry
and cadastre in one database and one information system.

Additional donor support was envisaged in the PAD, and the EC had agreed at appraisal
to make available funds under the Community Assistance for Reconstruction,
Development and Stabilization (CARDS) program. The CARDS funds were administered
as recipient executed World Bank Trust Funds (TF051781, TF052657, TF055104).2 In
total the EU would provide some 11.4 million of CARDS funds (equal to 44 percent of
the loan amount). This permitted the scaling up of Project training and public awareness
activities, and the strengthening of sub-components for the production of digital
orthophotos and cadastral map vectorization, and to define the countrys maritime
domain boundaries. Project activities were also supported or complimented by extensive
bilateral assistance throughout the life of the Project by the governments of Norway,
Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany and USAID.

Due to the changes above two reallocations were requested by the client and agreed to by
the Bank: the first in August 2008 of 4.2 million (16% of loan amount); and the second
in June 2010 for 695,000 (2.6%). The reason for the reallocation included the following:
allocation of 740,000 of unallocated funds; reduction in the amount required for service
contracts due to a change in contracting category to technical services; funds for
consultants/training were able to be reduced due to the use of EU CARDS funds for
much of the training; much lower than expected operating costs; and agreement to
expand the number of office renovations requiring additional funds for the works
category.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Bank began with a solid basis for the design of a successful land registration project.
Much work had already begun, including several small donor funded pilot projects. The
government had a clear and well considered program for improving the court registry


2
 CARDS 2002 funds under TF051781; CARDS 2003 funds under TF052657; and CARDS 2004 funds
under TF055104/TF054761.


                                            5
system (which was a product of extensive consultation) and SGA had an approved five
year program for improving the cadastre. The Bank found that the legal foundation and
key institutions were in place, and that there were no significant overlaps of institutional
responsibility. The PAD makes clear that the Bank, with a team of specialists with long
experience in the design and supervision of land registration projects, recognized and
made use of lessons learnt in similar World Bank sponsored projects in the region,
particularly with regard to the dual agency model.

The engagement of government in the design process was limited at first, as the two
agencies needed to develop a working relationship and the MOJ had to assign an
appropriate person to work with the preparation team. However, once those hurdles were
overcome, both the government and the implementing agencies were actively and closely
involved in preparation and committed to the proposed project. In addition the Zagreb
Cadastre Office (outside of SGA and subordinate to the City of Zagreb) was included in
the preparation and specifically mentioned in two components: Component B ­ Cadastre
System Development; and Component C, under Training.

International donors had been active in providing assistance in the sector for some time
and were closely consulted through the design process, as evidenced in the PAD. A grant
from the United Kingdom permitted a detailed project design to be developed, using
international technical assistance, and discussions were underway with the EU for funds
to support Project activities.

While stakeholders were not directly involved in project design a social assessment (SA)
was conducted in 2001 during preparation. The SA included questionnaires and
interviews with individual and corporate property owners, displaced persons and
claimants, international organizations and government. To the extent practical, the major
findings of the study were reflected in the project design.

The Projects design was straightforward and similar to that of many other land
registration projects in the region. The Project design proposed effective measures that
took into account the major organizational challenge of the two agency system, as well as
other risks that had been encountered in countries with similar systems (lack of
technology, large number of offices, variations in practice, lack of customer focus, etc).
The PDO of building an efficient land administration system was ambitious but
considered achievable based on similar experience in the region. The Projects design
neatly reflected the two agency model, identified activities that each could take to
overcome barriers to transacting with property and increasing efficiencies, and devised a
set of common or joint activities between the two so that reliable property data could be
quickly delivered to the public (Component C). The design managed this in a way that
would not give rise to institutional rivalries and was consistent with decades of
experience, and reflected lessons learned in similar projects. Further, the design took into
account the existing and prospective international donor assistance.

The Bank identified a broad set of potential project risks, including risks due to ethnic
discord and lack of government coordination, and included corresponding practical and



                                             6
long tested mitigation measures. Overall, risks were rated as substantial due to the
potential for inter-ministry and inter-agency disagreements, reflecting the dual system of
land administration in Croatia. However the Bank did not adequately identify the risks of
the IT implementation. At the time the Project was prepared, only one major IT
implementation was planned in a land administration project in another country and the
region had limited experience on which to identify and mitigate the IT risks.

2.2 Implementation

As the following pages will demonstrate, the Project was successfully implemented, and
there were a range of factors that contributed to this outcome. Primarily, these were solid
government commitment and support, capable and dedicated staff, well targeted
additional donor financing, and good supervision. The major problem with
implementation related to the IT system, particularly the failure to recognize the enormity
of the task involved in developing it or to commence work soon enough.

The Government gave continuous, firm and practical support to the Project. It adopted
policies and proposed laws and regulations when necessary to support the PDO and
specific Project activities, such as the licensing of clerks to undertake property
registration, which had previously been the sole domain of judges. Government support
remained firm throughout implementation, as evidenced by its call in 2009 for a follow-
on project. The high level of capacity and commitment of officials associated with the
Project was another factor impacting on implementation. Staff of the MOJ and SGA,
members of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) and user advisory committee, and staff
of the PIU all worked diligently to achieve Project goals. Although there were some
initial difficulties with the MOJ, in terms of ownership of the Project and resourcing the
LRMU, this problem was overcome with the change in government in 2004, and the MOJ
became an enthusiastic supporter of the Project goals and activities.

The additional assistance provided by donors, particularly the CARDS funds, greatly
facilitated implementation. In particular, the Project was able to undertake an extensive
training program for staff, including managers that improved knowledge and skills, and
also refocused their perspective towards clients. SIDA also provided capacity building
support to both the MOJ and SGA, providing mentors for senior managers, study tours
and other trainings. CARDS 2002 (TF051781) and CARDS 2004 (TF055104) funds also
permitted a dramatic widening of activities under the public awareness campaign, which
was a major factor in improving the publics understanding of the value of registration
and cadastre services. CARDS funds also permitted the production of over 7,000 map
sheets of digital orthophoto, vectorization of over 21,000 cadastral map sheets and the
mapping of 500 km of coastline for maritime domain boundaries (CARDS
2003/TF052657).

The major factor that had a negative impact on implementation was the failure by all
parties to recognize the complexity and resources required to design and roll out an IT
system that would serve both the MOJ and SGA. The IT strategy was delayed due to
changes in MOJ management and that caused delays in agreeing on how to move forward



                                            7
with the IT implementation. Eventually the client agreed to a joint information system
with a single database of cadastre and land registry data ­ rather than an application that
merely shared certain data. While this was recognized by all as a best practice solution, it
required extensive consultations between the two implementing agencies on the
requirements for the system, and this further delayed the bidding procedure. Once the
contractor was on board, supervision of the contract by MOJ and SGA should have been
stronger. The delayed recognition of the problems with the contractor by both the
government counterparts and the Bank led to further development delays. However, once
these problems were understood by the client and Bank, corrective measures were taken
including: replacing the JIS project manager, applying contract penalties for the JIS
contractor, and introduction of benchmarks for both the contractor and client performance.
In addition, the client put in place a first rate IT project management structure that
allowed the JIS to be completed successfully. The Bank also increased its supervision and
support to the client to ensure successful completion.

                                                 A further factor that affected Project
              Incoming
              requests                           implementation was the great increase in
                                                 property values and economic activity
                                                 that occurred in Croatia during the
                                                 implementation period. As the graph
                                                 shows, the number of applications for
                                                 registration of legal documents received
                                                 at the LROs grew from 356,000 in 2003
                                                 to 550,000 in 2007 and then remained
                                                 relatively constant. In addition, the Public
                                                 Awareness Campaign was successful in
                                                 encouraging citizens to register their
                               Backlog
                                                 property or correct the registry records.


This 55 percent rise in requests/cases over four years placed an enormous burden on LRO
staff. As a result, in those areas that experienced boom -like conditions, the backlog of
cases was not fully eliminated, as the graph also shows. In Zagreb, for example, the
Project was unable to fully reduce the backlog of cases (129,718 cases in 2003 to 8,385 at
Project close) due to increasing new cases - though great strides were made and the
backlog reduced by 93%.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: The PAD contains a detailed set of monitoring indicators for assessing progress
in meeting the PDO. For example, improvements in services would be measured in the
number of days taken to register or to obtain property ownership details, and such data
would be collected by the M&E specialist in the PIU. User satisfaction surveys would be
routinely conducted to assess improvements in services being provided under the Project
and to report on social impacts, such as the impact of land market changes on the various
sectors of society.



                                             8
Implementation: The PIU began to collect data soon after the Project commenced,
however quarterly monitoring reports to the Bank and SGA and MOJ officials were not
provided regularly until 2005. After 2005, the data and reporting improved substantially.
Particularly important were reports from the LROs on backlogs and time to register
transactions. Very quickly, the LRMS took over the data collection on a court by court
basis. Customer surveys were conducted in 2005, 2006 and 2009. The subsequent
surveys followed the structure and methodology of the first, so the results are
comparable. Both the land market study and Social Assessment (SA) conducted in 2001,
as part of project preparation, were followed-up with studies in 2009. Both provided
valuable input on market conditions and social impacts.

Utilization: The M&E data was an important tool for making improvements to
implementation of the Project: in assessing progress and also making changes to the
allocation of resources. The data, particularly those showing the reduction in the backlog
of cases, gave all stakeholders a clear and immediate sense of the progress that the
Project was making. The data was also used to create pressure for further improvements,
by sharing all data among all courts and eventually publishing on the Projects webpage .
A number of courts with poor performance soon responded with improved registration
times once their standing became known. The gathering of data and its use in decision
making, and for justifying such decisions, was mainstreamed in both the MOJ and SGA
by the mid-way point of the Project. By the end of the Project, full responsibility for
M&E was transferred to the LRMS and SGA.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Project triggered OP/BP 4.01Environmental Assessment and was rated category C.
While the Project did renovate 19 LROs, the changes were mostly cosmetic in nature and
all LROs are in urban areas, thus there would be little, if any, negative impact on the
environment or forests. An environmental safeguards review was performed in March
2009 and several office renovations were visited, and no adverse environmental impacts
were found. The PAD went on to note that the proposed activities were not considered to
lead to involuntary resettlement, and there was adequate existing legislation and
enforcement to protect cultural property.

The financial management (FM), disbursement and procurement staff within the PIU
performed capably and all Project audits had a clean opinion. The FM system recorded
all transactions and balances, and it permitted clear and concise reports to be promptly
issued. Internal controls and audits further ensured the accuracy of records. The FM was
rated as satisfactory or moderately satisfactory3 throughout the Project. In early 2008 a



3
  In 2006 and early 2007 the FM was downgraded to marginally satisfactory due to a change in FM
software that did not meet full FM reporting requirements. The defect was corrected and FM rating
returned to satisfactory.




                                                   9
Joint Fiduciary Review of procurement, FM and disbursement was carried out by World
Bank specialists and their general assessment was "satisfactory", with no major
deviations found.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The LRMU, which became the LRMS following an upgrade in its status to a sector
within the MOJ, will continue to operate with a full complement of staff, and will
therefore be able to continue its valuable reform and management work. SGA
mainstreamed many Project functions (training, M&E) in the final years of
implementation, and these will continue. Both the MOJ and SGA are expecting further
bilateral assistance from the EU, and SGA has two additional donor funded projects
underway. It is therefore highly likely that the pace of reform will be maintained.

Many of the performance indicators listed in the PAD remain applicable. For the LROs,
the size of the backlog and the time taken to register a document or to obtain data (such
as an extract (copy) of ownership) are internationally used to assess the efficiency of land
registries, and will be retained. Similarly, the time taken to deliver cadastral services is
internationally recognized and will be retained. Service fees, too, are widely reported
around the world. In the Croatian context, the alignment of data between the two agencies
is expected to continue and will be monitored. More broadly, the number of training
courses and media reports, volume of registered transactions and mortgages, and degree
of customer satisfaction are Project indicators that are expected to continue in use. M&E
officers in both the MOJ and SGA will ensure that data is gathered.

The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has requested Bank financing for a follow-on project for
2011 which is now under preparation. The proposed follow-on project would build on
and strengthen the Projects outcomes, complete the implementation and roll out of the
JIS nationwide, and further implement a national spatial data infrastructure.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO has had a high overall relevance throughout the life of the Project. At the time
of preparation, there was a strong need within the country to improve land administration
as a foundation for more efficient land markets, and thus economic growth and social
stability. The Projects design formulated measures to both overcome the problems and
promote good land administration. This focus did not change throughout impl ementation
because the need for both resolving problems and introducing innovations remained
strong. At the end of the Project, senior government officials remarked that the objective
of good land administration and thus efficient markets remained highly relevant to the
government ­ in fact, they said, the governments focus on, and the importance attached
to achieving these objectives had not changed. It appears that the objective of good land
administration is actually more relevant in Croatia at the end of the Project, as the country
pursues EU membership, which amongst other things has entailed meeting EU standards



                                             10
for court administration and implementing EU standards on spatial data, such as the
INSPIRE Directive.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

It is clear that the Project has achieved its PDO of building an efficient land
administration system, which has had a positive impact on the development of efficient
real estate markets. The Project not only addressed most of the impediments to efficient
land administration (the backlog, access to information, improved and more efficient
processes) as itemized in the PAD but it made additional improvements to the system,
such as online data access, and in doing so brought Croatia closer to the model of
efficient real estate administration systems of Western Europe. The successes of the
various outputs, or specific outcomes, are the basis on which the PDO was achieved and
are addressed in detail in Annex 2. Each was directed at one or more of the core
components of an efficient land administration system, so if they were all achieved, it
follows that there would be an efficient land administration system in place.

In terms of the wider aspect of the PDO, to contribute to the development of efficient real
estate markets, there is a range of evidence suggesting that the Project was successful.
Here, efficient is taken primarily to mean that transaction costs do not adversely affect
the operation of the market, plus greater reliability (security) and more open access to
property information. The evidence for a positive impact on the development of efficient
(and expanded) real estate markets is as follows:

   The backlog has been reduced by 84% from its highest level of 339,412 in 2003.
   Furthermore, the capacity of the LROs to deal with an increased number of cases
   without increasing the backlog has been improved. The LROs were able to continue
   reducing the backlog even as the number of cases nationwide increased dramatically
   from 2003 to 2006, remaining relatively constant at just over 500,000 cases per year.
   The time for registering transactions has been significantly reduced and efficiency
   improved. One-third of LROs register transactions within 7 days, a major reduction
   from the national average of 100+ days at the start of the project. The national
   average time for registration of a mortgage has been reduced from 58 days to 6 days;
   and all extracts from the LR and cadastre are issued within one day.
   Transparency has been improved by putting all land registry and cadastre alpha-
   numeric data online. Information on property is now widely and freely available, thus
   making the market more informed. Users can check the status of their requests online
   without leaving the home or office. The LR data has experienced enormous growth
   with 20 million queries both in 2008 and 2009.
   Together the access to information and improved speed and efficiency of services has
   reduced the transaction costs of land administration services. Fees are already low
   (EUR35) and reduction in costs is therefore mostly in time savings to citizens and
   professionals who do not have to visit offices multiple times due to online access and
   reduced transaction processing times. According to the 2009 customer survey, more
   than 50% or respondents had their requests completed in one day. The 2009




                                            11
   customer survey also found that 71% of respondents felt the fees were appropriate for
   services from the land registry up from 49% in 2006.
   Greater reliability of, and access to, property rights information has contributed to the
   greater use of mortgages: the number of mortgages increased from 5,350 in 2002 to
   almost 9,000 in 2006, 8,000 in 2007 and 7,400 in 2008 before dropping somewhat
   due to the global financial crises. Similarly loan amounts more than doubled between
   2002 and 2007, from HRK 4.13 billion to HRK10.01 billion.

Perhaps less visible in the data, but no less important for the outcome of the Project, is
the achievement of a single land administration system managed by two entities ­ MOJ
and SGA. The JIS is the final step in a multi-year process bringing together these two
entities. The coordination and communication between the two partners has increased
from almost nothing to regular daily communication, and agreement on the need for a
permanent inter-ministerial coordinating body for the land administration reform. The JIS,
with its single database and integrated business processes, unites the two entities in one,
integrated IT system.

3.3 Efficiency

In terms of economic impact, the efficiency of the Project can be assessed by looking at
the initial economic rate of return (ERR) and the impact that the Project has generated in
the basic elements that contribute to the ERR. All forecasts (quantities or magnitudes)
that have informed the initial ERR were exceeded by very wide margins. The parameters
and basic assumptions underlying the initial cost-benefit analysis found in the PAD dated
August 2002 consisted of the property market dynamics comprising the growth in
average property values and the number of property transactions. Hence, if one were to
re-compute an ERR it would most likely be in the range of a few thousand percent. The
detailed analysis regarding the ERR can be found in full in Annex 5. Both market
turnover and real estate transfer tax collections exceeded predictions by 253% and 431%
respectively.

On the cost effectiveness side, the Project also proved efficient in making use of scarce
public funds. The Project was able to leverage the loan funds (26m, remaining
unchanged) to increase donor co-financing by 2.5 fold. Due to the additional donor
financing from the European Union the Project accomplished more physical targets with
the same loan resources. Over the course of the Project certain production units costs
were reduced ­ for orthophoto maps and vectorization of cadastral plans. In addition the
Project initiated review and analysis of the process to successfully reduce the costs of the
cadastral re-surveys.

As far as fiscal returns, SGA and MOJ generated 58m in fees for cadastre and land
registry services from 2002 to 2009, exceeding by a comfortable margin the total project -
related investment of 45m. During this period the incremental real estate transfer tax
collections also increased dramatically ­ to more than 700m from 2006-09. While much
of this was due to the global real estate boom, the improved land administration services
under the Project also supported this increase.



                                            12
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Satisfactory. Although the Project did not fully meet some of the outcome targets, such
as fully eliminating the backlog, it has achieved many of them. More importantly, the
Project resulted in a much more efficient and effective land administration system (as
shown above), which was the objective of the Project. Thus, despite the fact that some
aspects of the Croatian land registration system could still be improved, the citizens and
the economy are enjoying the benefits of efficient land administration.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While the Project did not specifically target these aspects ­ all landholders were the focus
­ it had positive impacts across the board. With respect to poverty, improvements to
registration of ownership (ease and speed of registration, access to information) provided
greater protection to economically vulnerable land holders. Improvements to offices
encourage greater access, and registration fees are still quite low (HRK250 or about 35).
In parts of the country redefinition of land parcels boundaries was conducted at the
governments expense, permitting economically vulnerable people to share in the benefits
of clear parcel boundaries. Improving land records allows the poor to use the value of that
asset more fully ­ through collateral for a loan, for instance ­ and better ensures the
protection of their rights in case of expropriation, encroachment or litigation. As property
ownership is widespread in Croatia (some 90 percent of households own real property),
the benefits are available to the majority of the population. The legal aid pilot did not
appear to demonstrate a need for assistance for low income owners given the very low
number who participated. However the pilot was only carried out in Zagreb and for a
short period of time. The SA did note that the poor were less likely to benefit from more
technologically advanced services delivered through the Project, such as int ernet access
to ownership data. Brochures and other ,,how to information has been printed and is
widely available in all SGA local offices and LROs across the country. It is clear that
more will need to be done to reach poorer, rural owners, particularly older ones.

According to the 2009 survey, male members of the household somewhat more
frequently ,,own real property ­ 58% of female respondents were owners, compared to
68% of male respondents. Property legislation in Croatia treats women equally,
inheritance and divorce laws do not discriminate, and anecdotal evidence indicates that
practice is consistent with the law. The SA found no overt discrimination against women
in relation to property matters.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional change was a major outcome of the Project, particularly in the MOJ where
the land registry operations had traditionally been regarded as peripheral to the Ministrys
functions. With the establishment of a dedicated team to manage and reform land registry



                                            13
operations (the LRMS), plus proper resources and technical assistance, the land registry
operations have become of central concern to the Minister of Justice, central government
administrators and court presidents. SGA has been greatly strengthened too th rough
better resources, more sophisticated services, and an increased demand for its services
across the public and private sectors. The culture change within both SGA and MOJ has
transformed the staff from administrators with little regard for the public to client-focused
professionals. Arguably, this is one of the most significant outcomes of the Project. As
one senior land book judge stated, his experience with the Project transformed his view
of clients, for whom the organization formerly had little regard, into the focus of his
work.

Along with the culture change within the two organizations there is also the culture
change between the two, from reluctant and competitive to true partners. Both MOJ and
SGA have benefited from mutual cooperation in sharing data and resources and the need
for regular coordination of project activities and the overall reform program . This has
culminated in the decision to form a high level permanent inter-ministerial coordination
body for the overall land administration reform.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts             NA

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As noted, the Project sponsored SAs in 2001 and 2009, and user satisfaction studies in
2005, 2006 and 2009. Following the pattern established in the 2001 SA of using both
quantitative and qualitative survey methods, the 2009 SA found that:
 Some 30 percent of respondents had bought or sold property in the last ten years, with
   two-thirds having done so in the period 2004 to 2009, demonstrating the highly active
   nature of the real property market in Croatia during the Project period.
 Respondents correctly recognized the benefits of registration, including increased
   security and the ability to use registered property as collateral for a loan.
 Staff of the MOJ and SGA are much more satisfied with the operation of their offices
   compared to the 2001 survey, particularly in regards to the increased speed with
   which they can meet customer requests and the improved quality and accessibility of
   data.
 The greater accessibility of data, and the increased speed of issuing certificates, has
   resulted in a body of better informed users, which in turn has resulted in more
   efficient operations as customers know what they are looking for.
 Some 42 percent of respondents considered that the situation in the cadastre offices
   and LROs were improving, with only three percent considering it to be worse.

The study noted that improvements to land registry data, easier access to that data and the
fact that users were more informed and motivated were the three main factors in
improving the land administration system, and that each of the three factors positively
impacted on the other to foster further improvements. Access to data on the internet was
singled out as a major influencing factor. Users of the systems reported that delays in




                                             14
registration were the main problem, with costs of registration being of negligible
importance. Backlogs in registration of transactions remained a problem in some courts.

The study showed that the transition from a socialist system, in which property ownership
(particularly in urban areas) was irrelevant, to a market economy, in which property and
its registration play an increasingly important role, has required a major adjustment in
mentality. The survey found that many old and less educated people had difficulty in
doing so, and thus they were least likely to seek regularization of the property documents.
Further, such people were less likely to have internet access, and thus awareness of the
need to correct property data.

The study found no discrimination in relation to property based on ethnicity, such as the
Serbian minority. Rather, the survey found, those who were less likely to enjoy the
benefits of registration were people with poor knowledge of modern technology, lack of
awareness of the significance of property rights, or without resources to pursue their
property rights in court. Thus, the survey recommended specific campaigns targeting
such persons to increase their knowledge and understanding, in an effort to motivate them
to take advantage of the improved and more efficient services offered by the MOJ and
SGA.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Low.      There is a low risk that the Projects many developments outcomes will not be
maintained for following reasons: mainstreaming of culture change within the
implementing agencies; increased customer demand resulting in pressure on the
government and implementing agencies; the governments EU accession plans and
obligations; and follow-on activities funded by both the EU and the World Bank.

The many changes achieved during the Project have been incorporated into the daily
activities of the implementing agencies and are now standard practice ­ documents are
registered quickly, copies of plans are run off the printer, and access to data on the
internet is open to all. While reversal of these improvements is conceivably possible, it
would take a major withdrawal of resources to do so, which is unlikely (see below). The
nature of the culture amongst LRO and cadastre staff has changed to one that is focused
on customers and delivering services promptly and efficiency. Culture change is not only
difficult to achieve but difficult to reverse, and thus the new focus would be not be easily
changed, particularly as the improvements directly benefit the politicians, management
and staff themselves ­ their lives are less stressful because the complaints, anger and
intense frustration of dissatisfied customers have been largely replaced by more positive
responses due to customers satisfaction.

As with the change to culture within the implementing agencies, there has been a change
amongst customers. The Croatian property market is much more sophisticated than it was
during project preparation as the demand for real estate has grown, as foreign banks have
begun providing mortgages, and as the private notary and other profession have grown.
Land owners, too, are more aware of the importance of registration and the benefits it



                                            15
brings. Politicians have seen a great reduction in negative publicity arising from poor
land administration, and also the benefits of disseminating good news, such as the
improved land administration services and their role in Croatias move towards EU
integration.

In terms of funding, both implementing agencies are well supported directly by the
central budget and have seen steady allocations over the last several years, even during
budget cuts due to the financial crisis. The EU is also continuing to finance this important
sector through the Instrument for Pre-Accession (IPA) with guaranteed financing from
IPA 2008 and 2010 for support to both institutions to continue the reforms.

The main risk to maintaining certain of the Projects outcomes is the future rollout of the
JIS. If the system does not function properly, if its management is not smooth, if funds
for maintenance and development are not forthcoming, and if its rollout (including data
conversion and training of staff) is less than successful, many of the benefits that
Croatian and foreign citizens currently enjoy from improved land administration could be
threatened. It will therefore, be critical for the government and implementing agencies to
ensure that the roll out is carefully planned and implemented, bearing in mind the
primary obligation of delivering reliable and prompt services to the public. The follow-on
Bank financed Project aims to assist Croatia to achieve this outcome by supporting the
complete roll-out of the JIS.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:             Satisfactory

The Bank assembled a team of highly respected, knowledgeable and capable specialist
who worked in close cooperation with the Croatian counterparts to design a set of
components that were relevant to the development objective and appropriate in the
context of Croatia in the first decade of the twenty first century. The Bank accurately
identified what was needed to improve land administration in Croatia and formulated a
clear, measurable and realistic set of activities to deliver the improvements. Lessons
learnt and experience from other projects was incorporated into the design, with the result
that the elements and the mix were consistent with best practice.

It could however be argued that some of the KPIs were somewhat ambitious, particularly
those dealing with the time to register a transactions. The ultimate target of registration of
transactions within five days by December 31, 2006 was overly optimistic given the
many other problems that had to be addressed (particularly the enormous backlog of
cases), and it failed to take into account the capacity constraints that would have to be
addressed during Project implementation. Furthermore, although the Bank could not have
predicted it precisely, there was a failure to recognize the increased demand that the
expanding economy and boom in real estate activity (some of which could be attributed




                                             16
to the Projects activities, such as the public awareness campaign) would place on LRO
staff, thus preventing them from achieving the ambitious targets.

(b) Quality of Supervision:          Satisfactory

World Bank supervision was appropriate and well targeted throughout the Project. The
aide memoires demonstrate that the Bank identified problems promptly, provided clear
assessments of the situation, and gave suitable and clear advice on the way forward. The
Bank practiced many aspects of good project management and encouraged the
mainstreaming of activities such as public awareness and monitoring and evaluation,
which were fully embraced by SGA and MOJ in the last years of implementation.

The Bank developed close working relationships with the counterparts at all levels. The
counterparts within the MOJ and SGA reported that the World Banks supervision
assistance was critical to the success of implementation. Senior officials advised that both
the Project and the Bank had been agents of change, which not only provided practical
advice and directions on implementation of Project activities but also shifted their
mindset from that of administrators to customer focused service providers.

The main shortcoming of the Bank was that its response to the delays and other problems
in developing the JIS was not communicated in strong enough terms for the counterparts
to respond quickly enough. Problems and delays with the development of land
administration software systems are well known in the region, and although the Bank
accurately identified failings in the JIS contract implementation, the counterparts
searched for a way to resolve the problem for a lengthy period. As a result, development
was delayed and the Project had to be extended on two occasions. In retrospect, the
matter should have been more strongly and urgently pressed early on. However, during
the last two years of the Project the Bank increased supervision and support and the
outcome was a successful IT system that is now being rolled out across the country.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:         Satisfactory

Almost all aspects of the Banks performance were consistently of a high standard.
Though there were difficulties and delays in the JIS development and the development
was successful in the end and the Bank contributed to this with greatly improved
supervision and support in the final years of the Project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance:          Satisfactory

The government of Croatia demonstrated a strong commitment to the Project durin g the
design phase and maintained that commitment throughout implementation. Negotiations
proceeded well and the loan was promptly submitted to parliament for ratification.
During implementation, the government accepted and acted on the need for legislative
reform. In total, seven pieces of legislation were presented to the parliament, and there



                                            17
were numerous ministerial decrees. At completion, many changes introduced by the
Project had been mainstreamed, and the government sought a further Bank loan to
strengthen and build on the achievements of the Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:              Satisfactory

The MOJ was slower to engage in Project activities relating to the land registries. As
shown by early aide memoires, although the MOJ promptly formed the LRMU, the unit
was not properly organized, resourced or given the necessary authority. This was one
factor in rating the Project as unsatisfactory in May 2004. However, following the
downgrading of the Project in 2004, the MOJ responded very positively, and by the end
of 2005 the unit was properly staffed. As noted above, it was subsequently raised to the
level of sector within the MOJ (and renamed the LRMS), and the Minister of Justice had
made the meeting of Project objectives a priority of the Ministry. Since then, the MOJ
has supported policy and administrative changes in accord with Project objectives, such
as the transfer of authority for registration from judges to licensed clerks. Furthermore,
the MOJ has actively supported the LRMS and ensured it had proper resources, staffing
and authority. Once fully established, the LRMS has consistently functioned well and
efficiently in its role.

SGA has actively and competently pursued Project activities and objectives from the
Projects commencement. Under the leadership of a highly motivated and capable
director, the organization has promptly and efficiently completed a variety of Project
activities. Activities were completed on time and within budget, and often exceeded
targets. For example, SGA conducted the digitizing of the entire countrys paper maps,
including quality control, and published them electronically. And partly through savings
due to its good management of the process, SGA was able to digitize more than double
the original number of maps. SGA was able to obtain additional bilateral support that
built upon or complemented Project activities, thus enhancing the overall results.
Additionally, SGA has been a leading player in regional conferences, setting standards
and cooperation in the geodetic field, enhancing not only the results of the Project but
other World Bank-sponsored land registration and cadastre projects in neighbouring
countries.

Both SGA and MOJ underestimated the needs for the JIS development, however once
these problems were identified both institutions responded with additional human
resources, an excellent IT project management structure, and very high level management
attention.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:          Satisfactory

With the exception of the MOJs lack of engagement in the first two years and the
difficulties with the JIS development, there has been a solid commitment by the Borrower
to the Project, efficient and active management of Project activities, a clear willingness to
change, and a shift of focus towards the public and other users of the land administration
system.



                                             18
6.     Lessons Learned

The Project has given rise to several lessons in both the design and implementation that
could significantly improve future land administration projects.

1. The challenges of developing an IT system, particularly one involving two agencies,
should be taken into account during project design and when assessing project risks.
While the PAD envisaged a relatively simple IT system for sharing information, the
implementing agencies opted for a comprehensive, and more complex, Joint Information
System. It took some time for the implementing agencies to fully understand and agree
on this activity, with the resultant lost time. This has been the pattern throughout the
region with land administration IT systems, so Croatia was not alone is falling behind
schedule. The development of software also suffered from other common problems ­ the
successful bidders failure to recognize the complexity of the task and the contractors
fielding of under-qualified staff. This resulted in delays and the requests for extension.

2. The complexity of such IT systems are both a key to success and institutional reforms,
but also demanding in terms of implementation, management, resource allocation and
procurement support. This is the case in many, if not all, land administration projects.
Some important lessons in terms of project design, realistic implementation schedules,
and costs against benefits/development outcome deserve to be highlighted. IT systems
can be central to achieving key development objectives, including institutional reforms
(e.g., facilitating the gradual integration of two land administration entities), but can
include significant cost which has to be known up-front to the client and Bank
management.

3. The Project successfully achieved major institutional reform through a process-
oriented investment project. However the time and costs were significant, including a 21
month extension to complete the IT system, a key part of the reform. Such process-
oriented investment projects can implement real institutional and system -wide reform if
the counterparts are willing, but takes time, often longer than the typical Bank project
timeframe. However, if Bank management and the client are willing, the payoff is
substantial and highly sustainable.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

From the implementing agencies ­ Ministry of Justice and the State Geodetic
Administration ­ a letter dated December 6, 2010 states:

"We would like to thank you for assessing the Project in all its segment as satisfactory
and to express our satisfaction with the findings of the economic and financial analysis
showing that the Project has surpassed all predictions related to its performance. The ICR
also summarizes the lessons learned and experiences resulting from the challenges that
we faced during the Project design and implementation -in particular during the Real


                                           19
Property Registration and Cadastre Joint Information System establishment -that could
significantly improve the future land administration projects.

Since it is the policy of the World Bank to make the Implementation Completion Report,
after being submitted to the Board of Directors, accessible to the public, we would like to
hereby inform you that we agree on making the Report accessible to the public since, in
our opinion, it contains no confidential or sensitive information.

We have reviewed the Report and submitted a few minor corrections to the data shown in
the ICR text. We would like to inform you that the Ministry of Justice and Sate Geodetic
Administration have no objections and have the approved the submitted draft ICR.

We would like to reiterate our appreciation to the entire World Bank team for its genuine
support during the Real Property Registration and Cadastre Project implementation that
continues also through the preparation of the new Integrated Land Administ ration System
Project implementation."

(b) Cofinanciers

Representatives of the EC in Zagreb reviewed the ICR and agree with the major findings
of the ICR and satisfactory ratings of the Project.




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in EURO Million equivalent)1

                                        Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                                   Percentage of
          Components                 Estimate (EURO        Estimate (EURO
                                                                                    Appraisal
                                         millions)             millions)
 REAL PROPERTY
REGISTRATION SYSTEM                            8.40                 11.31              135%
DEVELOPMENT
 CADASTRE SYSTEM
                                               7.88                 14.33 2            182%
DEVELOPMENT
 INTER-INSTITUTIONAL
OPERATIONS AND
                                              11.55                 15.19              132%
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
TRAINING AND                                   5.87                  7.14              122%
MONITORING

            Total Baseline Cost               33.70                 47.97
Physical Contingencies                         2.11
Price Contingencies                            1.68
             Total Project Costs              37.49
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.26                  0.26
      Total Financing Required                37.75                 48.23



(b) Financing (in EURO Million equivalent)

                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing      (EURO        (EURO       Appraisal
                                                          millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              6.70         10.87 3      160%
 EC: European Commission                               5.00         11.39        228%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       26.00           25.97          100%
and Development




1
  Appraisal estimates were originally done in US$ at an exchange rate of approximately US$1 = 1.015;
however the loan was denominated in EURO. Figures above have been adjusted to EURO for consistency.
2
  This component was particularly impacted by the additional EU CARDS financing most of whi ch went
into Component B and a smaller portion into Component D (for training and public awareness campaign).
3
  Of which 6.628 co-financed the loan funds. The main increase was due to the increased EC financing
which required an increase in government co-financing.


                                                 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A - Real Property Registration System Development

Objective: The objective of this component was to build capacity in the Ministry of
Justice (MOJ) and the 109 registries in the municipal courts to implement an efficient real
property registration system characterized by predictable transaction processing times
and lower transaction costs. The ultimate goal was to reduce to a minimum the land
registry backlogs through improved management, work-flow improvements, the use of
information technology, and to build oversight of the system in the MOJ through the new
Land Registration Management Unit (now called the LRM Sector).

Achievements

   Elimination of backlog: the backlog has been reduced by 84% from its highest level
   of 339,412 in 2003.
   Capacity to deal with increased number of cases without increasing the backlog: the
   number of cases lodged nationwide increased dramatically from 2003 to 2006, and
   has remained relatively constant at just over 500,000 cases per year. The LROs have
   been able to cope with the increased workload while still dealing with the backlog of
   cases (where they still exist).
    Improved delivery time for services by the LROs, including provision of data:
       approximately one-third of LROs register transactions within 7 days, and the
       national average for registration of a change of ownership was 52 days at the end
       of the Project, which is a major reduction in the national average of 100+ days at
       the start of the project. The national average time for registration of a mortgage
       has been reduced from 58 days at the Projects commencement to 6 days; and all
       extracts are issued within one day.
    Greater use of mortgages: the number of mortgages increased from 5,350 in 2002
       to almost 9,000 in 2006, 8,000 in 2007 and 7,400 in 2008 before dropping
       somewhat due to the global financial crises. Similarly loan amounts more than
       doubled between 2002 and 2007, from HRK 4.13 billion to HRK10.01 billion
       before dropping off in 2009.
    Expanded access to information: the LRO web site was established in 2005 with
       all land registry data online; queries are running at 20 million annually over the
       last two years. There is no charge for access. The digitizing of data and creation
       of web access to property records has provided the foundation of a modern
       information system and greatly improved transparency and access.
    The website access combined with improved transaction processing times has
       reduced the overall transaction costs to register ­ instead of multiple visits to the
       land registry to check on their applications, citizens now visit only once and then
       can check online to see the progress of their application, saving time and money.
    Improved human resources: Over the period 2005-2009, 1,530 staff were trained
       in IT, 1,917 staff were trained in law, and 972 staff were trained in management
       and soft skills.


                                            22
       Raised awareness of the importance of property registration services: as the SA
       and customer surveys of 2009 show, the public awareness campaigns were highly
       successful across most of the community in increasing the publics knowledge of,
       and interest in their property records. Surveys show that 80% of the public
       understood the campaign messages.
       Improved reporting and evaluation as discussed above, and consequentially more
       informed management decisions.

Establishment of a Land Registration Management Unit within MOJ: The LRMS is fully
operational, reporting directly to the Minister of Justice and the State Secretary. It is a
department within MOJ with 17 positions: 14 employees, 2 IT specialists, and a training
assistant. Before the Project, land registration was covered by one person within the
Civil Law Department with back-up from one IT officer.

The LRMS is responsible for: preparing procurement backgrounds, contract management,
staffing expert working groups and procurement committees, making annual plans,
providing resources (including temporary staff), providing training, and monitoring and
evaluating the 109 LROs.

The number of municipal courts has been reduced to 67, with the 109 land registry
offices now reporting to the 67 court presidents. Further, the MOJ plans to reduce the
number of land registry offices to 67 by 2019. The closed LROs will become ,,customer
service points. The released clerks will be assigned to other offices to help further
reduce backlogs. The LRMS has close contact with all LROs and Court Presidents who
provide monthly statistics on backlogs, verification of digitized land books, average
processing times, and other key performance indicators (which can be seen on the Project
website: www.uredjenazemlja.hr). This data is used to monitor performance and manage
the allocation of resources to support improved performance.

Rehabilitation of Land Registry Offices Nineteen LROs were renovated and
rehabilitated through the Project. The purpose of the renovation was to upgrade office
premises for better working conditions for the LRO staff and to improve customer
reception areas and customer service . These works were comprised of small construction
works inside individual rooms which generally included: painting of the walls, replacing
flooring, changing/repairing the windows, electrical installations and lighting, hydro
insulation, AC, heating systems, etc.
A digital archives assessment has been prepared and a full records management strategy
will be prepared under the second phase Integrated Land Administration Project. The
original RPCRP Project design included preparation of an activity plan for managing the
land registry function along business lines. At the time of appraisal, it was considered
that one or both entities might become financially self-sufficient for which business
planning would be necessary. However LRMS is, and will remain, a budgetary entity.
The government has continuously provided sufficient budgetary resources for its
operation and will continue to do so. Business planning as originally planned is not
necessary given this scenario. Based on the agreed restructuring in 2009, the focus of the



                                            23
business planning was shifted to the Joint Information System business plan for operation
and maintenance (see Component C).

Legal Framework There has been a marked improvement in the legal framework for land
markets. The new legislation within the land registration sector is:
    a) Amendments to the Land Register Act and to the Law on Ownership and Other
         Real Property Rights;
    b) New rule books adopted for: the Land Registration Procedure Forms; and
         Rules and Regulations on Taking a Special Professional Exam and the
         Appointment of Licensed LR Clerks;
    c) Amendments to the Rules and Regulations on Internal Structure, Keeping of
         Land Registers and Performance of Other Works in Court Land Registries (Land
         Registration Rules of Procedure).

These amendments have led to the following simplifications and improvements:
delegation of land registration to authorized clerks rather than judges; procedures for on-
demand harmonization of land registry and cadastre records at the request of the owner,
rather than having to wait for systematic harmonization; use of the national personal
identification number which will improve data quality and security; formally linking land
registry and cadastre data in the unified land database leading the way for the JIS; and
improved apartment registration procedures.

Improving registration services: The Project has helped reduce the time taken by the land
registration system to register transactions of both sales and mortgages. At the start of
the Project, nationally it took on average 100+ days to register ownership in the land
book and 58 days to register a mortgage. However by the end of the Project, this has
been reduced to just 52 days for ownership and 6 days for a mortgage. The processing
time in Zagreb land registry has been reduced from 480 days to 106 days for a sale
transaction; mortgages were registered in 64 days at the start of the project, whereas they
are now registered in 11 days. 40% of LROs now have processing times of 7 days or less
for a sale transaction. Customer satisfaction with the LRO services has improved from a
score of 3.4 in 2005 to 4.1 in 2009, where a score of 5 is ,,very satisfied.

The number of visits to LROs by citizens/lawyers/other to complete their transactions has
been reduced from at least six to only two visits, mainly because of the availability of
both the land registry and cadastre information on the Internet. This has consequently
lowered transaction costs.

The above results were supported by the computerization of the land registry files from
paper based titles to digital files (between 2003 and 2007), with 99% of this data verified
nationwide. Zagrebs land registry files are 100% digitized and verified. All of the clerks
and judges in each LRO have access to this information on their desktops.

The number of hits on the MOJ web portal went from 8.0 million in 2005 to over 20.12
million in 2009, and is further increasing. It is clear from stakeholder interviews that all
users greatly appreciate this service. Aside from the ability to view a land registry extract



                                             24
for an address or parcel number, the service also allows the public to enter a tracking
number and view the status of their transaction. It saves multiple visits to the LROs as
well as making the information available worldwide in the case of Croatians living
overseas. Real estate agents, notaries and bankers all expressed their great appreciation of
this resource and would like to see additional improvements to the online system.

Reducing the backlog: In achieving the above results, the backlog of transactions 1 in the
LROs has been reduced by 84% since the start of the Project. In Zagreb, the backlog was
reduced to 8,385 from 129,700 in 2003. The Zagreb LRO has hired 20 additional judges
to help with the most complicated cases.

Legal aid: A legal aid pilot project for low income citizens was less successful. It was
contracted out and ran from June to September 2008. In that period the contracted law
firm received 200 inquiries via telephone but only 11 followed through to receive help
and actually qualified for legal support. The qualification criteria were based on Croatian
social welfare criteria. Possible reasons for the lack of participation could be: difficulties
in advertising the free legal aid, and strict criteria on who qualifies for it. In 2008, the
Parliament approved a new legal aid law. The law mandates that lawyers give legal aid if
the client is qualified; lawyers must do a certain amount of pro bono work per year. In
light of the new legal aid law, LRMS does not have plans to review future possibilities
for legal aid.

A successful "help line operation" for citizens with questions about land registration ran
from May 2008 to November 2009. It handled approximately 2,000 telephone inquiries
per month, with a total of 30,660 calls during the operational period. The major t ypes of
inquiries concerned: (i) the status of land registration applications; and, (ii) the working
hours, addresses and telephone numbers of particular registry offices.

Component B - Cadastre System Development

Objective: The objective of this component was to help build the capacity of SGA to
design and conduct a unified national cadastre system in both rural and urban areas. It
was planned to support the headquarters of the SGA and its branch offices. The City of
Zagreb, although not under SGA, was to benefit from the project through upgrading of
information technology and support for enhanced cadastral information management
processes and procedures. The component was split into 4 sub-components (B1 through
B4). Sub-component B1 was loan financed; while the rest of the sub-components2 were
financed by loan and EU CARDS funds.




1
  The cases in the backlogs are cases that have remained unsolved for over one month. These cases differ
from the unresolved case (i.e., "cases in procedure"), which are new cases which are actively being
processed.
2
  Sub-component B2 (CARDS 2002/TF051781), B3 (CARDS 2003/TF052657) and B4 (CARDS
2004/TF055104)


                                                    25
Achievements
    Digital orthophotos were produced for the entire country; and 100% of the paper
      cadastre maps were scanned and vectorized during the Project and 98% of these
      are now in official use.
    Cadastre maps and extracts are issued within one day. SAG also increased its
      customer satisfaction from 3.83 in 2005 to 4.7 in 2006 and holding steady.
    Increased access to information: the alphanumeric data from the cadastre has been
      online since 2005 (www.katastar.hr) and so far more than 25 million queries have
      been made.
    SGA provides graphical data via the Geoportal (www.geo-portal.hr) and this is a
      first step toward service commercialization allowing the private sector to purchase
      map and other graphical data online.
    Foundation for next stage: SGA developed a strategy for a national spatial data
      infrastructure (NSDI) as a first step in moving towards the EU approach to
      managing spatial data (INSPIRE).
    Improved human resources: SGA developed a training strategy, and over the
      2005-2009 period, 1,058 staff received IT training, 2,925 staff were trained in
      professional education, and 1,919 staff were trained in management and soft
      skills.

B1. Cadastre System Development: A new State Survey and Real Property Cadastre
Law was passed by Parliament in January 2007 that clarifies responsibilities for section A
of the title document and includes a new responsibility for SGA concerning the National
spatial data infrastructure (NSDI). Ten by-laws/regulations have been prepared for the
new State Survey Law and have been adopted. The Law on Performing Geodetic
Activities has been passed which regulates the chamber of surveyors, licensing and
performance of works.

65 cadastre offices were supplied with new office equipment, furniture, and filing
cabinets.

New software was developed in 2007/ 2008 to update the digital vectorized maps and
facilitate entry into the cadastre map database; in 2008 it was rolled out to the cadastre
offices along with hardware and training.

Under this subcomponent, the cadastre database of alpha-numeric data went online on
November 9, 2005; as of December 31, 2009 it had had 26.7 million hits and had issued 1
million print outs (see www.katastar.hr). The use of the webpage is free and has become
one of the success factors of the Project, substantially contributing to the accessibility,
clarity, and security in real estate holding and information.




3
    Scale of 1 to 5.




                                             26
B2. The development of a Multipurpose Spatial Information System (MSIS) 3,555
digital orthophoto maps at 1:5000 scale (DOP5) were produced; approximately 36.2% of
a total 9,821 map sheets in Croatia. An additional 3,486 sheets were produced by SGA
using its own resources, with the remaining sheets being financed through the CARDS
2004 grant. The DOP5 maps are used for multiple purposes including building location,
land use determination, to support cadastre surveying, spatial planning, and support the
EU Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) mapping requirements.

At the end of the Project 98% of cadastre municipalities (CMs) have vectorized cadastre
maps in the Central Digital Cadastral Map Database and therefore in official use.
Vectorization was made possible thanks to scanning equipment donated by Norway.

The Geoportal (www.geo-portal.hr) was launched as a test version on May 26, 2009. The
Geoportal allows for the sale of spatial data (orthophotos, digital cadastre maps) using an
online sale and delivery method, including credit card payments. This has set a new
precedent for the Croatian state administration. At the same time, the OGC compatible
web mapping service has been established, allowing direct access to the data for free. At
the moment, the Geoportal expansion is being implemented by adding the invoicing,
control and sale charges, including the additional e-sale of the SGA analogue products
(i.e., products accessible only by postal delivery). The integration with the existing SGA
business system is being carried out, thus reducing the manual work involved in ordering,
monitoring, delivering, invoicing, and controlling fees.

B3. Maritime Domain Pilot The goal of this pilot project was to define and register the
maritime domain and the associated properties for appropriately 500 km of coastline. The
pilot was designed to test the methods and procedures for surveying and registering the
maritime domain in order to ensure proper maritime domain to be defined along the
whole coastline of Croatia.

Aerial photography was done for the southern half of the coastal belt of Croatia for
maritime domain registration: 6,502 sheets were made and the coastal area of 1,340m
wide was covered. Digital ortophoto maps were developed at a 1:1200 scale for the part
of protected coastal area of Istria County, Primorje-Goranska County, Lika-Senj County,
Zadar County, Sibenik-Knin County, Split-Dalmatia County and Dubrovnik-Neretva
County. A total of 490 cadastral map sheets for 29 cadastral municipalities were scanned
and vectorized. Geodetic and cadastral works for the purpose of maritime domain
registration in Croatia covered approximately 500 km of the coastal line in 40 CMs. The
Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure (MSTI) passed decisions on maritime
domain delineation for 31 CM. More importantly the pilot uncovered several bottlenecks
in the existing legal procedure for maritime domain and led to the decision of MSTI to
amend and simplify the process. In June 2009, SGA and LRMS produced a report
reviewing the pilot project to assess the lessons learned; and in September 2010 the MSTI
submitted to government legal amendments in line with the lessons learned from the pilot.

B4. Support for the implementation of the RPRCP Funds were used to support the
further development of the MSIS, including further digital orthophoto map production;



                                            27
technical assistance and equipment; constructing the SGA Data Center for the Geoportal;
professional training and technical assistance for SGA and MOJ; DOP5 mapping for
3,509 sheets; IT training; further support for the public information campaigns; scanning
and geo-referencing cadastre maps; scanning of documents for archival purposes; and the
vectorization of 7,077 detailed map sheets in 485 cadastral municipalities.

Component C ­ Inter-agency Cooperation and IT

Objective: The objective was to support the undertaking of joint operations for the
cadastre and property registration systems, consisting of: (i) support for data entry of the
land books; (ii) land book renewal, updating and harmonization of data in the cadastre
maps and land registers in priority areas, and (iii) the establishment of a real property
registration and cadastre joint information system (JIS) in support of all transactions and
other operations.

Achievements

       Improved and tested procedures for harmonization of legal and cadastre data: the
       registry and cadastre records have been harmonized in 88 cadastral municipalities.
       Advanced information system: established a strategy for the JIS, finalized the
       software for the JIS, and developed a business plan and management system to
       fund and administer the JIS.

Data entry for electronic data processing: Between 2003 and 2007 the land registry files
were completely digitized 100%. The Project financed computer equipment for staff
hired by MOJ to computerize the records; and then later for a large service contract to
provide human resources for the actual computerization. 98% of the data has been
verified (double checked for accuracy) nationwide. Zagrebs land registry files are 100%
digitized and verified. All of the clerks and judges in each LRO have access to this
information on their desktops; and this information is available to the public online.

Cadastre resurvey and land book renewal (harmonization): The Project tested the
harmonization process from re-survey all the way through the public display. By the end
of the Project, 88 CMs were harmonized nationally; 13 of these were financed by the
Project. A major review of the first few resurvey contracts was completed in early 2007
by the COWI company. The major findings of the study were: high unit costs for the
resurvey, with field survey and boundary marking amounting to 44% of the total cost;
most contracts included orthophoto mapping which extended the contract period;
contracts were overly long spanning up to three years; there was no one contract manager
on the client side; the legal commissions spanned periods of 1 to 3 years; some cadastre
and legal commissions did not work jointly; and delays in dealing with state lands were
common. Major recommendations were instituted throughout 2009 and 2008 including
separating the contracting for orthophoto mapping and resurvey; limiting the resurvey to
areas of the greatest mis-match based on review of orthophotos and digital cadastre maps;
better contract management; and joint planning by SGA, MOJ and the State Attorneys




                                             28
office to ensure proper resources available to complete the work in a timely fashion and
joint work of the commissions.

Using the improved procedures, resurvey and land book renewal is underway in another
67 CMs across Croatia. These locations are being undertaken by SGA using finance from
the GOC, municipalities, and the SGAs own funds. Most of the locations are in peri-
urban areas to gain maximum economic benefit, as well as in some priority rural areas.

Other activities financed as part of this sub-component, included geodetic and cadastral
services for the creation of digital orthophoto maps in the scale of 1:2000. The total
surface area covered by the contracts is approximately 18,596 hectares.

The Joint Information System: The Joint Information System (JIS) includes a single
database for all cadastre and land registry data and integrated business processes. While
the two parts of the land administration system ­ SGA and MOJ ­ continue to maintain
their separate data, they do so in one integrated information system. For users, the effect
is one system and one set of data. If citizens submit an application to the cadastre that
requires a change in the registry, the document will be processed in one procedure from
SGA to the LRO. The citizen will then receive the final documentation at the end of the
entire process ­ the citizen no longer needs to transmit documents between the two parts.
The JIS has been rolled out in two pilot locations ­ Pozega and Zadar in both the LRO
and the cadastre office.

A ,,business plan for the JIS financed by the Netherlands was completed in June 2008.
The plan focuses on the agreement to use the APIS firm to provide the hosting for the JIS
and other proposed legal agreements to assure the associated financial, contractual and
human resource obligations of not only SGA and MOJ but of the on-going contractual
obligations of the JIS contractors for some years after the initial implementation. This
includes the Service Level Agreement with the Ericsson Consortium for the warranty
period of the JIS and a hosting contract with APIS.

Component D ­ Project Management, Training, and Monitoring

Objective: The objective of the component was to conduct project management, training,
legal studies, and activities directed at achieving the sustainability of Components A, B,
and C. This component included research, education, monitoring and evaluation, the
public awareness campaign, an apartment registration pilot, and developing an IT/IM
strategy for the cadastre and land registry system.

Achievements

Project Management: A full-time Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was staffed
continuously during project implementation with a team of well-qualified consultants.
Some 420 procurement procedures were contracted, and multiple funding sources
managed (loan funds, three EU grants and budget funds). A Joint Fiduciary Review was
held in March 2008 and the PIU was rated satisfactory with no major deviations. A quote



                                            29
from the report sums up the Banks experience with the PIU: "The general assessment of
the Bank team is that the PIU has ensured smooth and timely implementation of all
project activities, including management of all contracts subject to the JFR in a very
professional manner. "4

ICT strategy: The ICT/IM strategy was developed jointly by MOJ and SGA covering:
data management; technical, legal, and financial issues; data quality; management and
standards; technology and communications protocols; and related costs and inter-
institutional cost sharing and customer fees for usage. The strategy led to a memorandum
of understanding on joint IT matters and regulations between MOJ and SGA; including
agreement on the Joint Information System. The ICT/IM strategy was completed and
accepted by the Project Steering Committee in 2006. It is considered to be a live
document and is updated as needed.

Training: Training plans were developed on an annual basis and followed. The initial
training needs analysis was performed by the PIU Training Officer in 2004. In 2006 a
Training Audit was prepared by outside consultants to evaluate the training delivered
during the first years of the Project and make recommendations for improving training
delivery and effectiveness. Overall the findings were that the courses met expectations
for training needs at a reasonable cost and with a high level of satisfaction for the
standards of training. The trainers were perceived by the participants as both
knowledgeable and enthusiastic. A key outcome of the training evaluation was an
improved evaluation methodology, improved selection criteria for staff to be trained, and
better training planning.

The MOJ/LRMS has set up an internal pool of trainers for the purposes of providing
instruction for the digital land book software, legal framework, policies and regulations
and other key training needs. The internal pool of trainers consists of the 10 LR officials
from different LROs; and eminent LR judges and clerks to present the professional
training programs. The MOJ has an extremely successful training program in place,
surpassing the annual training goal of 200 staff. From 2003-2009:

                   1,621 staff were trained in IT;
                   2,417 staff were trained in law;
                   1,464 staff were trained in management and soft skills.

The SGA has established a modern Human Resources Department and a pool of trainers
(consisting of 12 trainers) for professional training purposes and has been equally
successful in meeting their training goals in collaboration with the PIU. For the same
2003-2009 period:

                   1,477 SGA staff received IT training;


4
    From the Croatia Joint Fiduciary Review Report for RPRCP, March 2008.




                                                   30
                   4,657 staff were trained in professional education; and
                   2,336 staff were trained in management and soft skills.

Both the MOJ and the SGA have exceeded the set training goals during the life of the
Project.

Public awareness campaign: A public awareness campaign was developed in 2006 under
contract to the Premisa consortium in collaboration with SGA and MOJ. The public
awareness campaign has been highly successful in achieving its goals, ranging from
branding to multi-media advertizing.5 In 2008, a survey showed that 60% of the
population had an awareness of the campaign, while 80% had a correct understanding of
the campaign message: the governments reform program goals and objectives; the role
of citizens and property rights holders; and the importance of good quality registration
and cadastre services.

At the end of the campaign, 2,479 newspaper and periodical articles had been published
relating to the LR and cadastre, 6 and two informational brochures had been developed.
The Project web page had been redesigned (www.uredjenazemlja.hr) and the in-depth
brochure on land registry and cadastre procedures had been printed and distributed free of
charge to all households nationwide. This brochure is a comprehensive ,,how -to guide
for citizens on cadastre and land registry. In addition, several smaller leaflets have been
excerpted from the brochure explaining particular procedures (how to register a mortgage,
for instance) and are available at all LROs and cadastre offices, banks, notaries offices,
and other information points for the real estate market.

There are two recommendations for the future to improve public awareness of the land
registry and cadastre reform program:

                   (1) Develop a strategy to cover as many target groups and community
                       channels as possible; and,
                   (2) Develop and launch a campaign to present the JIS system and
                       communicate its benefits to potential users.

Service commercialization and marketing: The GIS and internet sales system
(Geoportal) has been developed and launched in May 2009, with the explicit purpose of
making SGA data more fully available on a commercial basis. The LRMS webpage
allows access to internal services for the needs of LR staff such as the digital archive,
digital library, educational content database, and LRO forum.




5
 Products include visual identification for the project, media clippings, signage, operations man uals,
business cards, wall maps, geodesy dictionary, calendars, and clothing accessories.

6
    Of these, 61% of articles were neutral, 20% were negative, and 19% were positive.




                                                     31
During preparation of the Project this activity envisaged the creation of a One-Stop-Shop
for cadastre and land registry services for the public and professional customers. The
OSS was included in the original specifications for the JIS, however during 2008, a re-
scoping of the contract was necessary to ensure that the basic JIS functionality could be
completed in time. The OSS was removed from the contract at that time. It will instead
be covered under the IPA 2008 grant from the EU.

Apartment registration: There has been a significant increase in the number of
apartments registered in the land books nationwide since 2005; by the end the Project, the
number of apartments registered had increased by doubled to 690,667. In Zagreb the
cumulative number of apartments registered is 212,067.

The average price per square meter for a centrally located apartment in Zagreb has
increased from 1,478 in 2002, to 2,363 in 2008. Likewise, the average price per square
meter for apartments located in the outskirts of Zagreb has almost doubled from 767 in
2002 to 1,512 in 2008. Prices have decreased in 2009 overall due to the financial crisis.

A consultant team was engaged in 2006 to produce a report on the legal framework for
apartment rights and registration. The final report produced in late 2007 was
unsatisfactory due to lack of international experience provided in the report. Another
team of consultants was engaged in mid 2008 to complete the study and make
recommendations for future legal changes to improve the procedures and legal security
for apartment registration. A report has been prepared and the expected changes will be
implemented in 2009. Among the changes planned:
     Amend the Law on Ownership and Other Real Rights to regulate the authority of
        the building manager before the corresponding State administrative bodies and
        courts for all required procedures aimed at registering the parcels and physical
        building and any other common property; and,
     A new Regulation on linking the Book of Deposited Contracts (BDC) and the
        Land Register with the Records of Ownership over Condominium Units to allow
        apartments registered in the BDC to be linked to the building and registered in the
        land book system.

Project monitoring and customer surveys: The PIU has maintained a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation system to measure and report on Project results. Additional
analysis was provided as needed by the PIU and LRMS (backlog analysis in 2008 for
example). Three customer surveys were conducted in 2005, 2006, and 2009. The PIU
also managed the final project studies: a social assessment, land market analysis, and
analysis of the impacts on cadastre re-survey and land book renewal on local government.
These studies have provided detailed information for the Borrowers final project report
and the Banks Implementation Completion Report.




                                            32
         Project Results Framework: The original results framework in the Project Appraisal
         Document (PAD) from August 2002 is in the old format and is not easily transposed in
         the current Results Framework Format. Two Outcome Indicators were revised in 2009
         through formal restructuring, some targets have been more simply explained though the
         end target remains the same, and three additional intermediate outcome indicators are
         shown to better reflect the activities carried out.

Project Development            Outcome / Impact                Formally revised during        As presented in ICR
Objective:                     Indicators:                     restructuring in 2009          results matrix
                              offices in 5% of the                                           Pilot the integrated business
Build an efficient land                                        Pilot the integrated business
                              country will be integrated                                     processes and new
administration system with                                     processes and new
                              and operational using the                                      information technology
the purpose of contributing                                    information technology
                              best available practice and                                    system in 2 locations.
to the development of                                          system in 2 locations.
                              technology and fully in
efficient real property
                              compliance with the long                                        Target: 2 locations
markets
                              term aspirations embodied
                              in the land registration and
                              cadastre laws;
                              raising the level of                                            Raising the level of
-                                                              Raising the level of
                              consistency between the                                         consistency between the
                                                               consistency between the
                              data held in the cadastre                                       data held in the cadastre
                                                               data held in the cadastre
                              and those held in the                                           and land registry and the
                                                               and land registry and the
                              related land books in the                                       real situation on the ground
                                                               real situation on the ground
                              areas included in the                                           (100% consistency) in 5%
                                                               (100% consistency) in 5%
                              project to 80 percent over                                      of the country.
                                                               of the country.
                              the period of the project;
                              (at present it is 73% nation-                                   Target: 5%
                              wide and 39 percent in
                              Zagreb);
                              a decreased volume of                                           Decreased volume of
-                                                              -
                              backlogs: in the                                                backlog of cases in land
                              municipalities targeted by                                      registry offices
                              the project, cases that are at
                              least three years old should                                    Target: 0
                              be resolved by December
                              31, 2003; cases that are at
                              least two years old should
                              be resolved by December
                              31, 2004; cases that are at
                              least one year old should
                              be resolved by December
                              31, 2005;
                              a reduced cost of cadastre                                      Reduced cost of cadastre
-                                                              -
                              and real property                                               and real property
                              transactions;                                                   transactions

                                                                                              Target: n/a




                                                           33
    increased number of                Increased number of
-                                  -
    apartments registration in         apartments registration.
    the land books;

                                       Target: continued growth
    a reduced transaction              A reduced transaction
-
    turnaround time in the             turnaround time in project
    project areas according to         areas ­ showing an increase
    the following parameters:          in efficiency of the land
    the municipal land registry        administration system.
    offices would achieve less
    than the following                 Target: sales and mortgages
    maximum working                    registered within 5 days;
    processing times for the           extracts from land registry
    registration of sales and          issued within 2 days;
    mortgages in cases of              extracts from cadastre
    undisputed transfer of             issues in one day
    ownership: by December
    31, 2003: 40 days; by
    December 31, 2004: 20
    days; by December 31,
    2005: 10 days; by
    December 31, 2006: 5
    days;
    the municipal land registry
    offices would achieve rapid
    delivery times for the
    supply title
    reports/abstracts and other
    information from the
    registration system: by
    December 31, 2003: 20
    days; by December 31,
    2004: 10 days; by
    December 31, 2005: 5
    days; by December 31,
    2006, 2 days;
    the branch cadastre offices
    would supply cadastre
    maps and other information
    (for set fees) to customers
    in a period equal to or less
    than: by December 31,
    2003: 10 days; by
    December 31, 2004: 5
    days; by December 31,
    2005: 2 days; December
    31, 2006: 1 day;




                                 34
    improved legal framework         Improved legal framework
-                                -
    for land markets,                for land markets,
    particularly in relation to      particularly in relation to
    the apartment registration       the apartment registration
    systems in the cadastre and      systems in the cadastre and
    land registry offices;           land registry offices.
    increased participation of       New social actors
-                                -
    new social actors (NGOs,         increasingly involved in
    private businesses) in the       land administration process
    land titling process             as measured by
    measured through their           participation in Advisory
    participation in the             Committee
    Advisory Committee, and
    in the regional consultative
    groups.

                                     MOJ and SGA to set-up
-                                -
                                     training programs and
                                     provide training to staff
                                     including technical, legal,
                                     IT and management
                                     training.

                                     Target: At least 400 staff
                                     trained per year (200 per
                                     entity).

                                     Comment: this is an output
                                     indicator identified in the
                                     PAD.

                                     Digitization of land registry
-                                -
                                     data.

                                     Target: digitizing of land
                                     registry data complete for
                                     all LROs

                                     Comment: Additional
                                     indicator added due to new
                                     activity.
                                     Business plan completed
-                                -
                                     and implementation
                                     underway.

                                     This is a loan covenant.




                               35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Summary: This Annex has four sections each of which addresses a major topic related to
the projects assessment and impact. They consist of a discussion of (i) background on
the initial cost-benefit analysis, (ii) analysis of overall project performance, (iii) analysis
of the real property market, and (iv) projects financial and fiscal impact.

The project design (PAD of August 2002) contains an indicative economic analysis to
demonstrate how very little impact on real estate values would actually be necessary to
recover the costs of the project. The analysis also provided limited sectoral analyses on
the transaction registration backlogs and mortgage markets in Croatia. Although the PAD
computed an ERR, this Annex will not attempt to re-compute the same: the ERR was
based on certain performance related projections all of which have been exceeded by
wide margins, hence not warranting an actual re-computation of NPVs and ERRs.
Instead this analysis seeks to examine the financial and economic impacts of the Project
via other means of analysis.

For the Project two of the most significant economic and market performance indicators
appear to be the number and the monetary value of registered property transactions.
These indicators are of a composite nature because embedded in them are many other
primary indicators. To a large extent, the economic, financial and fiscal impact of the
project can be assessed by examining the baseline and current data for these two key
indicators, and drawing inferences. On the cadastre side, the number of information
(extracts) issued is the most significant indicator, which, in one way or another, is
associated with the sales and mortgage related composite indicators mentioned above.

From 2002 to the end of 2007, the number of property transactions, a good part of which
involved the existing property stock, increased by about 45%, from 101,000 to 145,000,7
but declined to 75,000 at the end of 2009 in response to the global financial crisis. Were
it not for the crisis, which seems to have significantly affected Croatias real estate
markets, the country would have registered at least some 60% to 70% growth in terms of
transactions. Despite downturns in the market, the estimated monetary value of an
average transaction steadily increased from 2002 to the end of 2009, whereby the average
transaction value appreciated from 32,500 to 79,300 in a matter of 8 years. Meanwhile,
the estimated size of the real estate market grew from 3.28 billion in 2002, to 5.93
billion in 2009.8 On top of the transactions involving existing properties, there is an
emerging and very significant construction sector in the country, whose size is estimated
at about 7% of GDP,9 corresponding to some 3.2 billion annually. Also, the mortgage


7
  Source: Croatian Tax Authority
8
  There exist several estimates on the size of the real estate market (also called market turnover) in Croatia.
For instance, the Croatian Chamber of Economy estimated the property market turnover at EUR 1.77
billion in 2008. In HRK terms, this would be equivalent to HRK 12.70 billion. The estimate provided in the
text above, EUR 5.93 billion, is derived from the authors own analysis and is believed to be closer to the
actual market size, as measured in terms of the total sum of values of all property transactions.
9
  The figure comes from the Croatia National Bank.         http://www.hnb.hr/dsbb/edsbb.htm


                                                      36
market has registered very impressive growth in the last seven years, again declining in
2009 as a consequence of the global financial crisis.

Inquiries conducted in Croatia strongly suggest that both the growth in the transactions
involving existing properties, and the impressive progress recorded in the emerging
construction sector and residential mortgages have been impacted by the qualitative and
quantitative improvements in the services, outputs and achievements generated by the
Project. This is the key message which this Annex will try to elaborate on and
substantiate using data and information from Croatia.

Lastly, it should be noted that the project has designed and implemented a good M&E
system. This system enables various kinds of analyses, including those mentioned above.

PART I: BACKGROUND ON THE INITIAL COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS

The below table summarizes the parameters and basic assumptions underlying the initial
cost-benefit analysis found in the PAD dated August 2002. The most important set of
parameters and assumptions upon which the economic and financial analysis was crafted
consist of the property market dynamics comprising the growth in average property
values and the number of property transactions. The remainder of the report will analyze
the validity of the initial analysis in light of recent information, and highlight project
performance in relation with the expected outcomes and achievements.

Principal Assumptions and Parameters of the Initial Analysis
Parameter                            Without Project                  With Project
Number of real estate transactions              78,500                            78,500
in base year
Average price of property                     EUR 20,500                       EUR 20,500
transacted on the market in base
year
Annual rate of growth in real
                                                 2.5%.                             3%
estate transactions
Rate of growth in average
                                         0.5% decline per annum           0.5% growth per annum
property price
Real Estate Transfer Tax Rate         5% on 40% of the market value    5% on 40% of the market value
(RETT)                                    per current legislation.         per current legislation.



It was hypothesized that an effective cadastre and registration system could in effect
increase the values and number of property transactions ­ which were then constrained
due to the technical, administrative and legal problems in the cadastre and land registry. It
was anticipated that the Project would also generate additional benefits as a result of:




                                                   37
       (a) creating or expanding new markets (i.e., property market segments) and
       reducing operating costs for principal service agencies MOJ and SGA;
       (b) increasing income for banks, real estate agents, valuers, lawyers, notaries,
       cadastral surveyors, architects, builders, town planners, utilities, etc;
       (c) enhancing collections of income tax and profit tax;
       (d) minimizing personal losses of citizens arising from registration backlogs and
       excessively long periods of time taken up in courts dealing with land-related
       disputes and municipalities coping with inaccurate information; and,
       (e) elevating the countrys ability to attract foreign direct investment (FDI).

The economic analysis was based on estimating the expected impact on the overall land
markets resulting from securing titles and offering more streamlined registration and
cadastre services by strengthening the MOJ and SGA. It was noted that in spite of the
history, there was a good land market in Croatia, active across the country and across all
sectors: residential, commercial/industrial and agricultural.

Using data from the Ministry of Finance, the total turnover in the market in 2000
(baseline) was estimated at HRK 12.63 billion (1.65 billion). For the purposes of
comparison with other indicators of the size of the economy, in 2000 the GDP for Croatia
was 27.66 billion and government expenditures were 5.22 billion. FDI in 2000 was
1.22 billion.

As far as the economic rate of return, the indicative ERR was estimated at 27% for a total
project investment package of about 32 million for the 5-year project implementation
plus 15 year operational period. At a hurdle rate (also referred to as the Opportunity Cost
of Capital abbreviated as OCC) of 12%, the net present value of economic benefits
attributable to the project would amount to some 79 million (HRK 590 million).

A partial financial impact of the project was carried out in relation with the costs and
benefits accruing to transaction registration backlog clearing, whose results showed that
the unadjusted value of clearing half of the backlog burden of some 300,000 cases would
generate a benefit of about 121 million (HRK 900 million) to the users. The net present
value (discounted project cash flow abbreviated as NPV) attributable to clearing the
backlog was estimated at about 88 million (HRK 658 million).

As for fiscal impact, the NPV (Net Present Value) of the incremental Real Estate
Transfer Tax (abbreviated as RETT) collection due to the Project was estimated to be
around 4.74 million (HRK 35.41 million) against an unadjusted RETT total of some
19.28 million (HRK 144 million).


PART II: ANALYSIS OF OVERALL PROJECT PERFORMANCE

Comparison of Predictions with Actual Realization: In the above paragraphs we have
stated that it would not be a useful exercise to re-compute an ERR. The figures supplied
in the table below with a more representative and unbiased project ending date (2008)



                                            38
should probably suffice to illustrate why this would be so. In this table a comparison is
being made between the conditions that were expected to prevail with the project and the
actual realizations using recent data. The hypothetical "without the project"
counterfactual case was not used in this comparison. Examination of the figures in the
table reveals that the Project has exceeded the performance related forecasts of the
economic analysis, and hence a re-computation of an indicative ERR would only yield an
ERR estimate which would most likely be several fold of the initial estimate. The same
remark applies to estimates on NPV found in the PAD, which are exceeded by wide
margins.

This is the very basis upon which the project was judged for its economic and financial
impact using the initial intervention model of market improvement indicated in the PAD.

Comparison of Predictions with Actual Realizations
                                  Prediction With            Realization With
         Parameter                Project for 2008            Project in 2008              Difference
 Number of real estate
 transactions                          93,700                     130,600                    + 39%
 Average price of property
 transacted on the market
 (EURO)                                21,900                     55,400                    + 153%
 Annual rate of growth in
                                                          4.3% growth p.a. from
 the number of real estate     2.5% growth per annum                                    + 1.8 percentage
                                                           2003 to end of 2008
 transactions                                                                                points

 Annual rate of growth in                                 8.8% growth in current     Most likely exceeding
                                0.5% real growth p.a.
 average property price                                      HRK terms p.a.          5% percentage points
                                                                                        in real terms.
 Market turnover (value of
 all property transactions)              2.08                       7.24                    + 253%
 in EURO billion
 RETT collections ­
                                         40.9                      217.2
 EURO million                                                                               + 431%



Analysis of Project Costs: In the PAD, project costs were estimated at US$37.2 million,
with the Bank contributing 26 million, Government 6.7 million and EU supplying
some 5.0 million. However, project costs at completion are expected to attain 48.19
million comprising contributions from the World Bank (26 million, remaining
unchanged), EU Cards (11.39 million, exceeded initial figure by 2.5 fold) and the
Croatian Government (10.80 million, exceeding the initial estimate).10 The Project was
able to leverage the existing loan funds to increase donor co-financing which allowed for
the scaling up of certain project activities: the MSIS and digitizing all cadastre maps,



10
  It should be noted that all appraisal estimates were originally in US$ at an approximate exchange rate of
US$1 = 1.015; the loan was denominated in EURO at US$25.7 million in 2002 which today is worth
US$36 million.




                                                     39
training and the public awareness campaign. The Project was able to efficiently complete
digitization of all cadastre and land registry data and the development of an IT system in
which to manage and maintain this data.

Project implementation formally started in January 2003. The initial project closing date
was 30 September 2008, but it was extended until June 30, 2010 for selected
disbursements to complete activities associated with the Joint Information System (JIS).

Total Project financial resources were as follows:

       Project Costs
       Loan no. 4674-HR                 EUR 26.00 million
       CARDS 2002 Grant                 EUR 5.02 million
       CARDS 2003 Grant                 EUR 1.96 million
       CARDS 2004 Grant                 EUR 4.41 million
       Government Counterpart           EUR 10.80 million
       Total Project Funds              EUR 48.19 million
       Implementing agencies            State Geodetic Administration (SGA
                                        Municipal Courts under Ministry of Justice
                                        (MoJ)


Comment on Overall Project Performance: The Project sought to improve the quality
and consistency of the cadastre and land registry data and improve services. Hence, the
Project was initially designed as a first generation land administration and management
project, mostly covering essential improvements in cadastre and property registration.

In 2001, it was a farfetched dream that the Project would successfully implement a Joint
Information System, which would bring SGA and MoJ and their data ever closer to the
efficiency level of a single agency. The vectorization of cadastral maps was 2.5 times
what was originally planned due to EU co-financing and lower unit costs by 8 fold. The
original project design could not possibly have foreseen the highly positive impact of
digitizing all of the land registry data on the real estate profession and the real estate
market. The tens of millions of website visits and queries of this data demonstrates its
value and use as does interviews with key real estate professionals.

The municipalities which access registration and cadastre data online save many hours
and days worth of labor, making it easier for them to undertake complex infrastructure
projects which may involve thousands of land title holders who must be contacted and
compensated.

The number of requests for cadastre extracts has steadily increased from 2002 to 2005,
and averaged above 1.2 million a year from 2002 to 2009; while over 7 million queries
were recorded annually on the e-cadastre website. Additionally, more than 20 million
queries were recorded per year on the e-LR web portal, and some 31,000 calls were
received by the Land Registry information line.


                                            40
The Project has laid the groundwork for additional improvements in the land
administration system and in land management, such as NSDI, improved municipal land
management, urban planning and infrastructure development, improvements in property
taxation, real estate valuation, support to environmental management etc., some of which
have already been started. Several of this activities will be further implemented during
the second phase Integrated Land Administration System Project.


PART III: ANALYSIS OF THE REAL PROPERTY MARKET

Market Segments: The Croatian real estate market consists of five distinct segments,
namely: (a) retail, (b) tourism, (c) residential, (d) office space, and (e) industrial. The
residential segment remains a key driver of the real estate market in Croatia.

Analysis of Property Transactions Costs: One of the standard expectations from a land
administration and management project is reduced transactions costs. This can be
measured in terms of time saved and a reduction in the number of steps leading toward a
transaction being completed.

Regarding time saved, registering ownership rights has been accelerated from 100+ days
at the start of the Project, to 52 days nationwide in 2010, and from 480 days down to 106
days in Zagreb. The time to register mortgages at the LROs, likewise, has been reduced
from 58 days to 6 days countrywide in 2010 and from 64 days to 11 days in Zagreb in the
same period. It should be noted that these are averages, and many offices provide a much
faster service than what is suggested by the above figures.

 Number of days required to register a mortgage and a title for selected years
 Description                               2004       2005     2006      2007       2008   2009   2010
 Time needed to register a mortgage
 in Croatia                                23         4        11        8          7      6      6
 Time needed to register ownership
 in Croatia                                88         25       63        72         78     62     52


The Doing Business survey reports that there are five basic steps and 104 days to register
a property.11 The buyer has to bear a cost amounting to slightly more than 5% of the
value property from start to finish.

          Obtain a land registry extract from the competent land register court takes 1 day
          and costs HRK 20 per extract



11
     Doing Business Survey - 2010, http://www.doingbusiness.org/exploreeconomies/




                                                   41
          Notary notarizes sale contract takes 1-2 days and costs HRK 47 per signature
          verified by public notary (2 signatures required)
          Submit the sale contract to the municipal tax administration to pay land transfer
          taxes takes 30 days at no cost
          Pay transfer taxes, stamp duty and registration fees at a commercial bank or post
          office takes 1 day and costs HRK 50 (stamp duty) + HRK 200 (registration fee) +
          5% of property value (real property transfer tax)
          Register title transfer at Land Registry Court takes 60-80 days and is already paid
          in Procedure 4

The longest portion of the time needed to complete a transaction is the time taken to
register it at the LRO, and this varies from 60 to 80 days. These estimates are based on
surveys of real estate professionals in the capital where service is slower due to backlogs.
Two thirds of the LROs have no backlog, and 38% of the offices resolve registration
cases in seven days or less.

Inquiries conducted in Croatia with property lawyers, notaries and real estate agents
reveal that the users are highly satisfied with the cadastre and land registration services in
Croatia. The changes over the last several years have been visible and appreciated. The
property market has been greatly facilitated due to the enhanced transparency and ability
to access and verify information. The prevailing conditions now starkly contrast with
those that existed in 2002.

Data is now in digital form and available online free of charge. This means that citizens
no longer need to go to a LRO to see their property data or follow up on their pending
business. In addition the online system allows anyone to check the status of their
application if they have the application number. This greatly reduces the number of visits
to the LROs and saves precious time for the LRO staff, citizens, notaries and other real
estate professionals.

Developments in the Croatian Economy and Real Estate Markets

Between 2003 and 2007, the property markets experienced an era of uninterrupted
healthy growth. During this period of healthy growth, the number of property transactions
increased from 111,000 to 134,500.12 Meanwhile, collections on the RETT (considered a
good proxy for the market activity) increased from HRK 715 million (95 million) to
HRK 1568 million (217 million), representing two fold growth. The market turnover
(i.e., the sum total of the value of all transactions) in the same period recorded an
impressive jump from HRK 24 billion ( 3.28 billion) to HRK 52 billion (7.24 billion),
corresponding to more than 100% improvement.




12
     Source: Croatian Tax Authority




                                              42
During the period in which the real estate sector registered solid growth, most of the
property transactions were financed by low cost and readily available credit. This was
encouraged by a buoyant and forward looking economic environment, which
characterized the country and much of the Balkans. There were no apparent problems
with the sale of apartments anywhere in Croatia. In fact, potential buyers vied with one
another to purchase the units that were still under construction. Using data from the
Bureau of Statistics, an analysis was conducted covering the period from 2005 to 2008
for the city of Zagreb, given its prominent position in the Croatian real estate market. The
study revealed that the prices of newly built apartments had already risen by 32%. During
the same period, the number of newly built apartments in Zagreb increased by 83%, from
4771 units in 2005 to some 8744 units in 2008. Other real property segments in the
economy were also marked by an expansionary period with varying degrees of actual
recorded growth.

Unfortunately the good years were followed by those difficult years of global recession
and economic contraction as witnessed in 2009 and 2010. The property markets in
Croatia were undoubtedly affected. During the course of 2009, property prices continued
their decline on the Adriatic coast and in Zagreb ­ where a bulk of the transactions
normally occur. It was evidenced that year-to-year property prices on the Adriatic
declined by more than 5%, while the most-sought after types of properties (apartments) in
Zagreb had lost 7% in value. Interestingly, rents across all sectors have somehow
remained stable or even enjoyed some slight growth. This is particularly the case in the
office sector where vacancy rates have reached their lowest levels in the past four years.

Meanwhile, the location differentiation in property prices is expected to persist regardless
of the market conditions. Real estate prices for prime property and at preferred locations
are less affected by the downturn in the market. For those premium properties enjoying
good location there is always an active demand for either own use or for investment
purposes. Hence, when analyzing the real property market in Croatia, one should always
distinguish between the above two categories of premium and standard properties, which
obviously have different features.

Overview of Mortgage Markets in the EU:13 Croatia expects to become a member of
the EU in the next few years, and it might be useful to take a look at the mortgage and
housing markets and study recent trends in the larger EU. As is the case in other
developed economies, mortgage credit markets represent an important element of the
economy in all EU member states. In the EU27 the aggregate volume of residential
mortgage lending outstanding decreased for the first time on record, from 6.2 trillion in
2007 to 6.1 trillion in 2008. This represented a negative annual growth rate of 1.2%, in
comparison with the 11.6% and 7.9% positive growth rates recorded in 2006 and 2007


13
  Hypostat 2008, A Review of Europes Mortgage and Housing Markets, European Mortgage Federation
(EMF), page 4




                                               43
respectively. Meanwhile, in 2008, overall residential mortgage lending in the EU27 was
equal to 49.8% of the combined EU GDP against 51.2% in 2007.

Mortgage Markets in Croatia: From 2002 to end of 2007, Croatian mortgage markets
(mainly residential mortgage) benefited from the optimistic macroeconomic environment
characterized by excess liquidity and favorable lending rates. According to data from the
Croatian National Bank (CNB), the unadjusted cumulative total amount of housing loans
(mortgages) was about 7.24 billion (HRK 52.4 billion) in July 2009. But signs of an
ongoing crisis were already becoming visible as this figure had remained unchanged for
almost a year. Prior to the crisis, annual growth rate in the mortgage loans was 17% in
2007. Below are some statistics comparing Croatia with the rest of the EU, using 2006
data from Hypotstat. Data for the other years was unavailable in this format except for
some few items shown in the table.



 Residential Mortgage Indicators in the EU and Croatia (2006)
 Description                                               Units    EU 27      Croatia
 % owner occupied                                         Percent   67.00%     96.10%
 Residential Mortgage Loans Outstanding as % of GDP       Percent   49.40%     15.30%
 Residential Mortgage Loans per capita, EUR 1000           EUR       11.6        1.2
                                                           EUR
 Total value of residential loans,  million                 M      5,713,615   5,219
 Typical mortgage rate (Euro area)                        Percent    4.50%     4.80%
 Source: EMF, EUROSTAT , ECB, National Central Banks
 http://www.hypo.org/Objects/6/Files/Hypostat%202006%20-%20Web%20Version.pdf



The above table shows that with the exception of wide-spread home ownership and
comparable mortgage rates, Croatia has a significant potential to further develop its
residential mortgage markets and assure appropriate funding mechanisms. The country
has an estimated one million households. Hence, the scope for deepening the mortgage
market remains quite considerable as old housing stock is gradually being replaced.

Meanwhile, it is clear that the country has made real progress in developing the mortgage
market in recent years and the improvements in the security, quality and transparency of
cadastre and land registry data has played a role particularly from 2002 to the end of 2007.
(table below ­ Mortgage Market Dynamics in Croatia).

In Croatia, mortgages constitute 90% of loans to households. The CNB publishes a
periodic document called "Financial Stability" which captures major macroeconomic
indicators, including real estate. Terms of mortgages range from 15 years to 30 years; and
the delinquency rate is quite low, standing at 2.5% only as nonperforming loans.

Currently, mortgage loans average about 75,000 to 80,000 per mortgage. According to
the CNB, residential mortgage loans outstanding as percentage of GDP have also
declined from 15.3% in 2006 to less than 14% in 2009/2010.



                                               44
 Mortgage Market Dynamics in Croatia
                                                                               Mortgage Loans
                                                 Average
                          Price        Price                        Price     Number
               Size                              Exchange                              Value of
     Year               (asking)     (selling)                    (selling)      of
                                                   Rate                                 Loans
                                                                               Loans

              sq. m.      EUR          EUR       HRK/EUR           HRK        Number   HRK B

     1997      101     81,672       78,197            6.96    544,307

     1998       86     81,817       78,435            7.14    559,959

     1999      108     96,660       92,382            7.58    700,427

     2000       98     81,855       78,655            7.63    600,438

     2001      102     104,105      99,936            7.47    746,620

     2002      102     108,669      104,249           7.41    772,171          5,353    4.13

     2003      108     118,383      114,821           7.56    868,538          6,568    5.70

     2004      120     135,979      129,713           7.50    972,290          7,162    6.96

     2005      105     136,020      130,673           7.40    966,988          7,130    6.89

     2006       90     136,881      131,628           7.32    963,894          8,876    8.56

     2007      105     178,696      169,639           7.34    1,244,474        8,040    10.01

     2008       97     172,330      162,130           7.22    1,171,091        7,400    8.67

     2009       95     158,040      147,286           7.34    1,081,013        2,418    2.61

 Source: Croatian National Bank                               -

FDI: In Croatia FDI is concentrated in a few major economic sectors, namely: banking,
manufacturing, telecommunication and transport, wholesale and retail, real estate and
tourism.14 During Project implementation from 2002 to 2009, the countrys FDI stock
increased from 7.1 billion to 23.8 billion. The share of real estate in FDI inflows in any
given year varied from 4 to 5%.

Concluding Remarks on the Analysis of Property and Mortgage Markets:




14
     http://web.efzg.hr/dok/MGR/ssmolic//croatian%20economy/FDI.pdf




                                                 45
In conclusion, it would be useful to reiterate that this Annex is principally investigating
the economic and financial impact of the Project based the objective of improving the
real estate markets as a result of investing in better cadastral and registration services in
Croatia. Despite all the issues surrounding the possible attribution of these improvements
to the Project, there is considerable evidence that the improvements to the cadastre and
registry system have made a genuine impact. This has happened despite the recent
negative trends and the shrinkage in the real estate and mortgage markets which stem
from the global financial crisis.
Notwithstanding the recent downturn in the markets, the real property market in Croatia
actually did very well between 2003 and 2008, and some of this enhanced performance is
believed to be because of the Project. Without the benefit of enhanced security of
property ownership and the confidence in property rights, it would be unlikely that the
real estate market could have performed this well, even when the overall environment
was opportune. However, it is always difficult to establish a direct causal link between
the project and the visible improvement in market performance. Yet, it should be
remembered that even a very small impact emanating from the project would more than
suffice to justify the investment as was illustrated in the indicative ERR analysis found in
the PAD.

It is possible that without the Project benefits of enhanced security and transparency of
ownership rights in Croatia and the visible service improvements of the cadastre and
registry, the real estate and mortgage markets in the country may possibly have faced a
greater downturn. Despite problems, the stability of certain selected segments in the
property market is a positive sign which may lead us to expect a speedy recovery in these
markets in the near future, if not in 2010.

PART IV: PROJECT'S FINANCIAL AND FISCAL IMPACT

Financial Impact: Within the context of a limited financial analysis found in the PAD, it
was forecasted that out of an initial stock of some 300,000 registration backlog cases in
2001, some 150,000 would be resolved during the project, generating a discounted
benefit of some HRK 658 million (88 million). The financial value for each resolved
case was estimated at some HRK 6000 (which was then less than USD 1000). The actual
project performance records show that from 2004 until the end of 2009, the Project
helped clear some 292,000 backlog cases, with only some 55,000 cases still pending
resolution. The target assumed in the financial analysis was exceeded by almost 100%,
and the value ascribed to clearing the backlogs would likewise have doubled.

Fiscal Impact: The fiscal impact of the project can be assessed by studying two aspects:
(a) collections on the real estate transfer tax (abbreviated as RETT), and (b) service fee
collections by the two agencies, MoJ and SGA.

The PAD predicted that the project would help increase RETT revenues due to an
increased volume of property transactions. In Croatia, there is no property tax, but buyers
of property must pay a 5% RETT. There are many exemptions to this tax, and the
effective collection rate is estimated at 60%. Municipalities and the central government



                                             46
share the proceeds of this tax, whereby 60% of the tax revenue is allocated for the use of
counties and municipalities, while the government keeps the remaining 40%.

The PAD predicted that there would be increases in the RETT and at project completion
RETT collections would reach some HRK 300 million (40 million). However, it is
observed that despite the downturn in the property markets, actual RETT collections have
been four to five times higher than those predicted (below table).



 Fiscal Analysis - Municipal Courts and SGA Service Fee Revenues
 Parameter or Description                      Unit           2006     2007      2008      2009
 Real Estate Transfer Tax Collections          HRK M          1,189    1,422     1,567    1,306
 FEE INCOME EARNED BY THE SERVICE AGENCIES
 Fee Income Generated by Municipal Courts      HRK M            9.75    40.04    42.03     37.31
 Fee Income Generated by SGA                   HRK M          17.06      5.47    18.84     15.32
 Total Fee Income by Both Agencies             HRK M          26.81     45.51    60.87     52.63
 Source: KPI Quarterly Reports (M&E Report) by PIU

Fee income generated by the two implementing agencies, MoJ and SGA are largely
dwarfed by the RETT collections, but are still important. The two agencies combined
earned a total of HRK 433 million (58 million) from 2002 to the end of 2009, exceeding
by a comfortable margin the total project-related investment of HRK 335 million (45
million), which was supplied by the Bank, EU and the Government.

It appears that the most significant fiscal impact of the Project is due to the improvements
in real estate transfer tax collections which are closely related with the number and value
of the real estate transactions in Croatia. It is possible to establish a link with the enabling
environment the project has created, and the significant increases in the transactions and
values of the properties in Croatia.




                                              47
Attachment: Croatia Real Estate Market in Croatia
Description                                          Units         2002     2003         2004      2005      2006      2007           2008     2009
Real Estate Transfer Tax (RETT) Collections          HRK T      729,917   714,938      875,111   925,692 1,189,242 1,422,653     1,567,910 1,306,535
Rate of RETT                                         %              5%        5%           5%        5%        5%        5%            5%        5%
Estimated Value of Properties Transacted (partial)   HRK B        14.60     14.30        17.50     18.51     23.78     28.45         31.36     26.13
Effective Collection Rate for RETT after
Exemptions                                           %             60%          60%       60%       60%        60%        60%        60%        60%
Estimated Real Estate Market in Croatia              HRK B        24.33        23.83     29.17     30.86      39.64      47.42      52.26      43.55
Estimated Real Estate Market in Croatia              EUR B         3.28         3.15      3.89      4.17       5.42       6.46       7.24       5.93


Number of Properties Transacted1                     Property   100,947   110,955      120,702   118,511   126,473    144,833    130,580    74,848

Estimated Average Value of a Property                HRK        241,023   214,783      241,673   260,367   313,438    327,424    400,243    581,861

Estimated Average Value of a Property                EUR B      32,527    28,410       32,223    35,185    42,819     44,608     55,435     79,273

Exchange Rate                                   HRK/EUR           7.41          7.56      7.50      7.40       7.32       7.34       7.22       7.34
KPI - RPRCP - 2010 March (for RETT) and CNB (for the exchange rate)




1
    Source: Croatian Tax Authority




                                                                          48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                          Lead Land Administration
Lynn Holstein                                                  ECSSD Task Team Leader
                          Specialist
Milena Messori            Operations Analyst                   ECSSD Deputy TTL
Miroslav Ruzica           Sociologist                          ECSSD Social Scientist
Hiran Heart               Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS
Vladimir Skendrovic       Operations Officer
Irina Kichigina           Counsel                             LEGEN    Country Lawyer
Naushad Khan              Procurement Specialist              ECSPS
Stephen Butler            Consultant                          ECSSD    Property Lawyer
Ivan Ford                 Consultant                          ECSSD    Cadastre Specialist
Suha Satana               Consultant                          ECSSD    Economist
Supervision/ICR
Victoria Stanley          Operations Officer                   ECSSD Task Team Leader
Andrej Bolfek             Consultant                           ECSSD Land Lawyer
Vera Dugandzic            Operations Officer                   ECSSD
                                                                     Land Admin
Lynn C. Holstein          Consultant                           ECSSD
                                                                     Specialist
Anneliese Viorela Voinea Consultant                            ECSPS FM Specialist
Ireneusz M. Smolewski     Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSPS
Mirela Mart               Consultant                           ECSPS FM Specialist
Rumyana Tonchovska        Consultant                           ECSSD IT Specialist
Anthony Lamb              Consultant                           ECSSD ICR author
Suha Satana               Consultant                           ECSSD Economist

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                          27                        95.25
  FY01                                          16                        72.73
  FY02                                          44                       243.97
  FY03                                           7                        20.93
                          Total:                94                       432.88
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                          17                        66.48
  FY04                                          21                        94.19



                                           49
FY05              22   112.49
FY06              17   100.57
FY07              22   104.82
FY08              25   129.51
FY09              10     0.00
       Total:    134   608.06




                50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Social Assessment - Summary of Findings

A follow-up Social Assessment (SA) was completed in December 2009 by the consulting
firm PULS d.o.o. The SA includes an analysis of the current situation, problems,
improvements and options offered by the real property ownership system. Its main
purpose was to identify key social issues related to the registration and cadastre system
and make an assessment of the Projects impact on relevant social groups. Of special
interest were vulnerable social groups for which it had been established or assumed that
the Project would impact their life and/or quality of living.

The SA is the result of two complementary surveys:
   A quantitative social study that surveyed real property owners (citizens and
     companies separately) in seven cities and their experiences with registering real
     property, the most significant problems in the registration procedure, reasons for
     (not) registering their real property and their perception of changes in the land
     registry and the cadastre. The survey was conducted via phone interviews.
    A qualitative institutional study including, cadastre and land registry offices in
    seven selected cities, units of local self-government in those cities, and particular
    civil associations dealing with specific problems real property owners encounter.
    This survey was conducted by means of in-depth interviews.
The SA is based on the following survey goals:
   To define users of the land administration system and the benefits for those users.
    To establish how the public, professionals, civil servants, and others perceive the
    land administration system and its limitations, and how they perceive
    improvements achieved during the past five years.
    To understand the impact of the Project on different user groups and to identify
      mechanisms for improving positive outcomes and reducing negative ones.
      Specifically, to understand the impacts on poor citizens, women and other vulnerable
      groups.
    To identify any current or potential patterns of discrimination related to real
    property registration, especially on the basis of nationality, gender or income.
A large proportion of households in Croatia (around 90%) own real property, making the
primary user base a very broad one. There is also a wide range of current and potential
users and a project aimed at improving the real property ownership system must also be
directed towards, and bring benefits to, the groups having the most difficul ties realizing
those benefits.

An important piece of basic information obtained by the SA is whether the surveyed real
property owners have bought or sold a real property in the past 10 years. Around 30% of
respondents had bought or sold a real property in the past 10 years; 2/3 of which had



                                            51
done so between 2004 and 2009, indicating they are familiar with the changes in the land
administration system.

When asked about the benefits of registering their real property, respondents mostly
mentioned legal security and legalization in general, indicating an abstract perception of
benefits, while concrete benefits such as easier sale of real property or the possibility to
obtain a mortgage were rarely mentioned. In the future, SGA and MOJ should consider
how best to communicate these concrete tangible advantages and demonstrate that
registering real property brings concrete benefits to all parties involved.

Cadastre and land registry offices belong to the group of institutions trusted by real
property owners to a large extent. 38% of respondents believe cadastre offices can be
trusted; and 36% say the same about LROs. Over one half of interviewed real property
owners do not trust the Department for Issuing Building Permits. The negative perception
of this institution may present problems for SGA and MOJ as the building permits are
considered part of the range of institutions related to the construction and trading of real
property.

In the original SA conducted in 2001 respondents in cadastre offices mentioned the need
for systematic work in relation to new cadastral surveys, digitalization and harmonization
with land registers. Land registry department judges reported the situation to be
extremely bad, the most obvious consequence being the large number of backlogged
cases. Real property registration procedures were extremely slow, especially in larger
land registry offices, resulting in a very inefficient land administration system.

The current situation, according to the respondents, is much better. 1 The efficiency of
cadastre offices was given positive evaluations by their employees, and the same for
almost all land registries. Staff in the Zagreb LRO were of the opinion that office had not
yet achieved a satisfactory level of efficiency and service. System improvements are
primarily related to these three aspects:
    1. Improved speed of issuing relevant documents.
    2. Improved speed of solving cases (registration).
    3. Improved quality and accessibility of information.

The SA found that in spite of the widely praised public awareness campaign there are still
groups of users that do not understand the land administration reform and the role that
individual owners must play. A mismatch between the actual status of real property and
the status recorded in the cadastre and land registry is still a basic problem in Croatia.
These problems affect all real property owners, but particularly senior citizens who also
belong to the category of vulnerable citizens due to low incomes. Persons with a higher
economic and education status more successfully navigate through the system and
understand their role and responsibilities.



1
    The comparison is related to the past few years, not explicitly to 2001




                                                       52
Respondents who have registered their real property believe the slowness of the
procedure to be the most prominent problem in the land administration system. The costs
of registration are rarely perceived as a problem. This is confirmed by the fact that most
respondents do not even remember the costs, or mention that the costs were under HRK
500 (approximately 68).

The new technologies implemented by the Project have led to a higher degree of
transparency and easier access to data in cadastre and land registry offices. With respect
to cadastre offices these improvements enabled more prompt issuing of certificates,
resulting in more efficient performance. Many employees of land registry offices have
noticed that accessibility of information has led to better informed users, which has in
turn improved the quality of the process. However, the greatest improvements in the
LROs have been achieved by hiring new employees who help handle case backlogs.

Cooperation between cadastre and LROs was improved by means of direct
communication. The improvements in both of these institutions has also affected the
performance of the offices they cooperate with. This is primarily related to decreasing
backlogs in land registries, thus enabling the institutions they cooperate with to perform
their tasks in a more efficient manner.

Household respondents give positive evaluations of the performance of the cadastre and
LROs. 42% of respondents believe that the situation in the cadastre and land registry is
improving, whereas only 3% that it is becoming worse. This indicates a positive
perception of the change in the performance of land registry and cadastre.

Three crucial issues for the better functioning of the land administration system are:
   1. Complete land registers.
   2. Accessible data.
   3. Informed and motivated users.

It is important to notice the connection between these issues and their impact on one
another. The crucial aspect is the one of complete land registers, which depends on
informed and motivated users who, in turn, depend on easily accessible information. For
many reasons, the internet is the ideal medium for a display of such information.
However, one should take into consideration social groups with restricted internet access:
senior citizens, persons with low education, and persons with low incomes. Therefore, it
is still important to enable easy access to information in cadastre and LROs.

The most important outcome of the reform is the improvements that make it are easier
and faster to transact on the real property market. An efficient and safe market offers
opportunities to all social groups to improve their quality of life. Among the vulnerable
groups, the retired are the group which could improve their standard of living by selling
real property whereas greater mobility could facilitate the unemployed in finding work.

In addition to these vulnerable groups defined by social status, the respondents in the
institutional study identified other specific groups having difficulties in realizing their
real property ownership rights: people with unresolved condominium ownership,


                                              53
apartment co-owners, users who have filed a request for the return of nationalized
property and owners recorded in the book of deposited contracts. Also, users living in
areas of special state concern (Knin, for example): mostly elderly persons of lower
income and education.

Farmers are a group who often own land. Land parcels must be properly registered in the
cadastre to enable their owners to use it to its full potential, or to receive agricultural
subsides.

The SA did not find any classical forms of discrimination against any specific social
groups. Difficulties in realizing the ownership rights for members of the Serbian minority
in Croatia are: mismatch between the cadastre and land registers, lack of a unified case
law and a general lack of quality real property records. The respondents felt that these
difficulties were not conditioned by their minority status but, rather, by poor economic
status, low education and lack of resources for pursuing court procedures in Croatia.

Continued overall improvements to the land administration system could significantly
improve the outcomes for the Serbian minority, enabling them in some cases to return to
the houses that were once their homes.

Respondents of Serbian nationality included in the social survey as a potentially
vulnerable group show no differences in comparison to other respondents with respect to
their habits and experiences with the registration procedure. Apparently, citizens of
Serbian nationality living in Croatia have managed for the most part to solve their
property-legal issues, even though it cannot be established with a certainty based merely
on the respondents included in the sample.

What is evident is the latent discrimination towards persons with poor knowledge of
modern technologies, of persons without the knowledge or awareness of the significance
of ownership rights, or without economic or social resources to successfully conduct
court proceedings related to ownership rights. The rate of real property registration is
lower in households with incomes under HRK 2500 (approximately 340). These
vulnerable groups need special attention and specialized information campaigns to
provide them with the information they need and inform them of the importance and
benefits of registering real property.




                                            54
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                    55
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

In the past fifteen years, the real property market has experienced a great boom in the
transitional countries. Along with the legislative amendments, the real property market
boom has put the land administration system in the Republic of Croatia (RoC), i.e. the
cadastre and land registers, under heavy duress that has hindered the smooth real property
market development, given the historic legacy of the records and the low degree of the
technological equipment spread. Apart from the regular activities and numerous bilateral
projects, certainly the most important part of the reform is the Real Property
Registration and Cadastre Project itself (Project) whose main objective was to develop
an efficient land administration system for the purpose of developing an efficient real
property market.

The Project implementation started on January 15, 2003. The planned deadline for the
Project implementation was extended from September 30, 2008, to December 15, 2009.
An additional extension until June 30, 2010, was subsequently granted for the acti vities
related to the completion of the Real Property Registration and Cadastre Joint
Information System (JIS). The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and State Geodetic
Administration (SGA) co-managed and shared the authority over the Project. The Project
was funded by a World Bank loan, the Republic of Croatia State budget and European
Union (EU) CARDS grants.

420 contracts had been concluded under the Project by June 30, 2010, and the total value
of the Project obligations (contractual and non-contractual) amounted to EUR 48.19
million (out of EUR 48.19 million, i.e. 100% of the overall Project funds).

It was planned for the program of the Croatian Government aimed at modernizing the
land administration system at the national level to be phased over 15 years. T he Project
was envisaged to encompass the first five years of the program and to focus on selected
urban and rural areas. After the first two years of the Project implementation, it was
decided to create preconditions (IT strategy) for a new and comprehensive IT system to
be quickly established, after being tested, at the national level. This approach changed the
strategy of sporadic improvements and sporadic IT links between certain cadastre and
land registry offices, and instigated the changes at the mid-term Project review in 2006.
The set key Project objectives have been reached, and the planned activities have been
successfully carried out, some of which have become the best practice examples in the
region.

The Croatian Government wishes to express its gratitude for the assistance and support
offered by the World Bank team and European partners during the past 10 years. This
report summarizes the achievements and funds used in the implementation of the Real
Property Registration and Cadastre Project by mid-2010 as well as the achievements
of the overall land administration reform in the Republic of Croatia. It also presents the
main conclusions of the Borrower as well as the lessons learned.




                                            56
About the land administration system in the Republic of Croatia

The Croatian system of registering the real property and associated rights is based on two
registers: the cadastre and the land register. In SGA cadastral offices (20 regional
cadastral offices with their 92 branches and the Municipal Office for Cadastre and
Geodetic Works of the City of Zagreb), the real properties are registered according to
their technical characteristics. The cadastral data on the real property (cadastral parcels)
is the basis for the establishment, renewal, keeping and maintenance of land registers that
are kept at 109 land registry offices of 65 municipal courts. In land registers, the data on
cadastral parcel title holders is associated to the data on cadastral parcels defined by the
cadastre. The Croatian system of registering the real property and associated rights has
several objectives. The most important ones include the introduction of security in the
real property legal transactions and the protection of titles registered in the registers. As
such, the cadastre and land registers represent the most important registers that serve as
the basis for the rule of law. Traditionally, as in many countries of Central Europe
(Austria, Germany, etc.), the Croatian model of registering the real property and
associated rights has not been institutionally unified. The Republic of Croatia is linking
the cadastral and land registry data through the Real Property Registration and Cadastre
Joint Information System (JIS).

Project background

As in many other countries of Central and Eastern Europe and due to the historic legacy
of over half a century, the land registry and cadastre system in Croatia was poorly kept
until 1996 when the new Law on Ownership was adopted. Due to its role in taxation, the
cadastral system reflected the situation on the ground in a more up-to-date way but,
throughout Croatia, the majority of cadastral maps that were being used dated back to the
19th century so they were understandably often inaccurate, obsolete, fragile and
maintained exclusively in analogue format.
Great difficulties were recognized during the Project preparation stage with regards to the
real property market due to a slow and unreliable system of registering real property and
associated rights.

       The procedure of determining the rights, acquiring ownership and its registration
       was carried out at a much slower pace than was the case in other countries. In
       2000, it took 5 to 25 weeks to register a real property in Argentina, 6 to 36 weeks
       in Bulgaria while in Croatia it took between 2 and 120 weeks or longer,
       depending on the location and the type of registration. Some other research
       supported the above-mentioned scenario, e.g. the Doing Business survey
       according to which it took over 900 days to conclude a real property transaction in
       Zagreb.

       The overall state of registers was poor due to the mismatch of the data in the
       cadastre and land registries. An additional issue was the lack of IT systems to
       respond jointly, quickly and efficiently to a great boom in the number of
       transactions since the start of privatization in 1992.



                                             57
Given the strong surge in housing needs after the war period, the state of registers
particularly impacted on the problems of the real property market development that,
along with the long and complex procedures of obtaining building permits, also caused
the difficulties in enforcing the rights of mortgage debtors (seizures) due to the protracted
procedures.

With regards to the enforcement of seizures, the difficulties were mostly linked to
significant backlogs in processing the cases at courts and protracted appeal procedures.
Furthermore, the insecurity of titles and long delays in their registration were the main
obstacles to the development of the mortgage system of offering loans in the construction
sector and provided fertile grounds for corruption. A few other problems had a bad
influence on the real property registration system and the real property market itself but
they were caused by other factors such as a complex transformation of the State property
into the private property and the war (denationalization, privatization, return of the
property, records destroyed during the war, difficulties encountered by the displaced
persons and refugees, etc.)

The objective of the Project is to develop an efficient system of land administration
with the purpose of contributing to the development of an efficient real property
market.
This was to be achieved by resolving the aspects of the supporting infrastructure,
especially the land registration system at municipal courts (MC) and the cadastre system
managed by the State Geodetic Administration (SGA) at the level of regional and branch
offices as well as the Municipal Office for Cadastre and Geodetic Works of the City of
Zagreb, with the support of academic institutions and experts from the private sector.



 Key performance indicators related to the sector-specific issues:
 Efficiency of the real property market measured in terms of timely and secure transactions
 and increased national and foreign direct investments demonstrated by a growing number
 and value of mortgages.
 Achievements:
 - In 2009, the number of incoming cases increased by 43.09% as compared to 2003 when
     the number of incoming cases per year amounted to 357,914 land registration (LR) cases
     while the number of incoming LR cases in 2009 amounted to 512,131.
 - The number of the LR cases resolved in 2009 amounted to 524,726 - an increase of
     49.37 % as compared to 2003 when 351,293 LR cases had been processed.
 - The number of LR extracts issued in 2009 amounted to 1,636,356 which is an increase
     of 34.45% as compared to 2003 when 1,217,041 of LR extracts had been issued.
 - Out of the total number of unresolved cases from 2003 (> 359,000), the number of
     unresolved cases was reduced by 77.71% (June 2010) and amounted to 55,278 b acklog
     cases (according to the monthly turn-around criterion).
 - All manually kept land registers have been digitized so that all alphanumerical data of
     the land registers and cadastre are available on the Internet 24/7 without any special fee



                                             58
     charged for viewing. The Internet browser ensures the system transparency. The
     extraordinary interest and need for this service is illustrated by over 75 million queries
     into the e-Land Registry database and over 31 million queries into the e-cadastre
     database.
 -   Cadastral maps have been digitized through scanning and vectorization and 98% of them
     were officially used as of June 2010 and stored in the central digital cadastral map
     database.
 -   According to the information available to the World Bank (Registering Property ­
     Compare all Economies, 2003) representing the input for assessing the success of a
     project, the average number of days required to carry out a real property transaction in
     the Republic of Croatia estimated at the outset of the Project was set at 956 days.
 -   According to the e-Writing Office now kept for all courts in the Republic of Croatia, the
     average number of days for a transaction in June 2010 was:
        o      5 days for registering a mortgage
        o      46 days for registering a title
 -   In June 2010, there was no backlog in 75 LRO's, i.e. this refers to the courts processing
     their cases within one month while 44 LRO's processed the cases within 7 days.


Project management / key stakeholders

The project management structure included a Project Steering Committee (PSC), Project
Support Units within the MoJ and SGA, and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).

The Project Steering Committee comprised designated representatives of the MoJ, SGA,
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction, Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, GoC Legislation Office,
Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds, Supreme
Court, RoC Attorney Generals Office, Information Systems and Information
Technologies Support Agency (APIS IT d.o.o.) and the Project Manager as the PSC
secretary.
In order to balance the functions and provide continuity in the PSCs work, the PSC was
co-chaired by MoJ and SGA representatives.
Given that two big partners, bearing equal responsibility and displaying the need for
coordination of their activities, participated in the Project implementation, an independent
Project Implementation Unit subordinated to the Project Steering Committee was
established. The PIU was responsible for managing and supporting Project
implementation, served as the PSC secretariat and coordinated activities related to the
improvement of the real property registration and cadastre system implemented by the
MoJ and SGA.
One team in charge of streamlining, monitoring and supervising the PIU work was
appointed respectively at MoJ and SGA. During the Project implementation, those two
institutional teams strengthened their capacity for achieving an operationally
comprehensive land registration and cadastral system. For MOJ, the Land Registration



                                            59
Management Sector was the responsible entity. For SGA, it was a team composed of
experts from various SGA sectors.
On the part of the Bank, the Task Team led by the Task Team Leader (TTL) was in
charge of the coordination and monitoring of Project implementation.
The Project realization was, furthermore, stipulated by the Bank rules related to the
project implementation, procurement, contract management, use of loan and grants funds,
auditing and reporting to the Bank and EU.

The overall performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory. The Government of
Croatia showed its commitment to the Project through the regular budgetary
contributions and no significant management changes in both implementing agencies.
This has allowed consistent management of the activities, especially given the fact that
the Project was implemented by two institutions. The Borrower and Bank teams designed
the EU CARDS grant activities to be complementary to and integrated into the Project
and overall reform program. An agreement between the European Union and the Bank
defined that the CARDS program funds allocated for the Project be governed by the Bank
procedures. Based on such an agreement between the RoC and IBRD, grants were signed
so as to carry out the procurement and financial operations according to the Bank
procedures. The Project Steering Committee functioned as the Steering Committee for
the European Union grants within the framework of overall Project implementation and
this has been successful.

The implementing agencies - Ministry of Justice and State Geodetic Administration - had
to liaise with five other donors who contributed to the land administration reform
program. They consistently demonstrated good management so the capacity of their
agencies increased along with the implementation.

Over the course of this Project, the PIU grew into a reliable management team
responsible for a total of 48 million in grant, loan and State budget funds.

From the outset, the EU also recognized the significance of the real property registration
and cadastre reform as the generator of faster capital flows, accelerated investment
processes and, first and foremost, improved legal security. The EU has in many ways
contributed to the success of this Project by streamlining its pre-accession funds into the
Project, significantly contributing by involving the best European practices in the
segment of the real property registration and by actively participating and investing
efforts in implementing the grants and coordinating the programs. By adopting such a
responsible approach in the real property registration proceedings, the Republic of
Croatia has come significantly closer to the modern European society.

Key stakeholders
Apart from the important developmental objectives influencing the land administration
system development, the direct Project beneficiaries are the citizens of the Republic of
Croatia, especially the actual and potential real property owners, investors, experts and
companies participating in the real property transactions, banks, local government units



                                            60
and other State administrative bodies as well as other users of the real property
information.

The results of the reform and invested efforts are clearly visible. It is human nature to
seek improvements and an even greater progress in the quality of service provision,
therefore it is easy to forget what the situation looked like before. We become too critical
about what the situation looks like today so we are unable to judge it objectively. This
manifests itself the most during the simplest procedures that are no longer the topic of the
discussions regarding the real property registration procedure because these transactions
have become really simple, efficient and reasonably priced.

However, the extent of problems and unregulated situation in registers, as well as a large
number of new laws in the area of physical planning and construction, environmental
protection, economy and agriculture, have constantly been increasing the pressure (new
incoming cases) on the land registration and cadastral system, therefore some attention
has been directed towards resolving the pressure, instead of the core of the reform. Then
reform of the land administration system is today half way through: the basic
preconditions have been established to complete the efficient system of land
administration. It is also necessary to continue the efforts to achieve a modern, precise,
up-to-date, efficient and rational land administration system. A key aspect, the reliability
and harmonization of the situation in land registries and cadastre, greatly depends on the
full functionality of the JIS, the informed and motivated users who must have an easy
access to information and a simplified procedure. The Internet is an optimal medium for
the display of this information but attention should be paid to the social groups having
problems in accessing the Internet: older and less educated people as well as poorer
people. Due to this reason, easy access to the information in the land registry and
cadastral offices remains important.
Given the set objectives of the Republic of Croatia as well as the process of accession to
the EU, the land administration system significantly assists the development of modern
Croatia and the fulfillment of the criteria for the EU membership. This refers to the actual
reform of judiciary, but equally to the chapters on investment climate, agriculture and
environment.

In this context, the land administration reform in Croatia continues, so that everything
that has been achieved so far would not be terminated and the reform would actually
accelerate.




                                            61
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Borrowers Completion Report, November 2010
Final Monitoring Reports, KPI Report, June 2010
Analysis of the Impact of Cadastral Resurveys and Renewal of Land Registers on Local
        Government Units, December 2009
Final Social Assessment, December 2009
Final Customer Survey, December 2009
Real Estate Market Study, November 2009
Joint Information System Business Plan, June 2008




                                         62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33394R1



                                                                                                      CR O ATI A
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         MAIN ROADS
colors, denominations and
any other information shown                                             COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) CAPITALS                                                                        RAILROADS
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                  COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) BOUNDARIES
Group, any judgment on the
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
acceptance of such
boundaries.



                           14°E                               15°E                                16°E                                     17°E                                    18°E                                     19°E


                            A US TR
                              U
                            AU STR I A                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                           Zalaegerszeg


                                                                                              To                  MEDIMURSKA                  To
                                                                                             Graz                                           Kaposvar
                                                                                                                       Cakovec
                                                                              To
                                                                                                    Varazdin
                                                                                                          VARAZDINSKA                     KOPRIVNICKO-
                                                                                                                                                                         HUNGA RY
                                                                           Ljubljana                                   Koprivnica KRIZEVACKA
                                                                                                  Krapina
                                                                                           KRAPINSKO-                                             Durdevac                                                            To
46°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baja                               46°N
                                                                                           ZAGORSKA                                                                       To
                                      SLOVEN
                                      SLOVENI
                                      S LOVEN I A                       To                                      ZAGREBACKA                 Bjelovar
                                                                                                                                                                         Pecs                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pecs                              To
                                                                     Ljubljana                ZAGREB                                                                   Virovitica                                                  Sombor
                                                                                                                       Ivanic BJELOVARSKO-
                                                                           ZAGREBACKA              GRAD                Grad BILOGORSKA                                                              OSJECKO-
                                                                                                                                                                      VIROVITICKO-                                                     To
            To                                            To                                      ZAGREB                                   Daruvar                    PODRAVSKA                    BARANJSKA
                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sombor
          Trieste          Trieste                     Ljubljana
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Osijek
                                                                                                      K up a           Sisak
                                                                                       Karlovac                                Sav                            POZESKO-SLAVONSKA Nasice
                                                                                                                                     a     Novska                               
                                                                                                                                                                               Pozega                            Vukovar             un




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
             ISTARSKA                       Rijeka                                                                                                                                                                                        ay (
                                                                                                  Glina                                                                                                                                       Danube)
                Pazin                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vinkovci
                                                                                                  SISACKO-MOSLAVACKA                                    BRODSKO-                            Slav
     
  Porec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                        PRIMORSKO-                  KARLOVACKA                                                                          POSAVSKA                            Brod               VUKOVARSKO-                         Novi Sad
                                        GORANSKA                                                                                                                                                                  SRIJEMSKA
                                                                                               To               Dvor     To                                To                                                                                 To
                              Stalije            Krk                                          Bihac                      Prijedor                       Banja Luka                                                                            Ruma      45°N
45°N                                                         Senj                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                    Doboj           To          To
             Pula                                                                                                                                                                                  Doboj       Tuzla
                                                               Otocac                              To
                                                                                                  Bihac
                                     Cres      Rab              LICKO-
                                                 Jablanac
                                                               SENJSKA
                                                                                                      Un
                                                                                                        a




                                  Losinj
                                                       Karlobag               Gospic

                                                               Pag
                                                                                            Udbina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                                                  Gracac
                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                   BOSNI A A ND
                                                                                                                                                                   BO SNIA AND
                                                                   Zadar
                                                                                       ZADARSKA                   Glamoc
                                                                                                                                                                  HERZEGO VINA
                                                         Pasman
44°N                                                    Dugi                                                                                                                                                                                            44°N
                                                                                                         Knin    Dinara
                                                        Otok                                                    (1830 m)

                                                                                         Vodice
                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                  Sibenik                                      Livno
                                                                                 SIBENSKO-                                         Sinj

                                  Adr iat ic                                     KNINSKA                 Trogir
                                                                                                                           Split
                                    Sea                                                                                                           Imotski
                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                Mostar
                                                                                                         SPLITSKO-
 I TA LY                                                                                           DALMATINSKA
                                                                                                                               Brac
                                                                                                                                              Makarska                     To
                                                                                                                                                                          Mostar
                                                                                                                                   Hvar

43°N                                                                                                      Vis                                                 Ploce             Metkovic                                                                43°N

                                                                                                                                          Korcula           Peljesac

                                                                                                                                     DUBROVACKO-                                                                     MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                       Mljet                                 To
                                                                                                                                     NERETVANSKA                                                          Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                   Dubrovnik
                    CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gruda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Podgorica


                                                                                                                                              0        20           40         60 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                              0                20                40 Miles
42°N

                    14°E                                   15°E                                    16°E                                       17°E                                          18°E                                     19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JULY 2006
