Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3529 
Operation Name 
Financial Sector Development Policy Loan II 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Banking (40%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and 
contractual savings (20%); Capital markets (20%);Central 
government administration (15%);General finance sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P094551 
Borrower(s) 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
ENTRAL BANK OF EGYPT, MINISTRY OF INVESTMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
January 6, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 19, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 19, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
A favorable external environment and a comprehensive macroeconomic and structural reform 
program launched in 2004 have helped Egypt boost its economic performance. The reformist cabinet that 
took office in July 2004 set a major agenda of macroeconomic and structural reforms, including trade 
liberalization, a complete overhaul of the tax system, privatization, as well as financial sector reforms. 
GDP growth rose to 7 percent in 2006 and 2007, up from an annual average of 3.5 percent in the three 
pre-reform period and private investment and employment have also risen sharply. Net international 
reserves were US$28.6 billion at end-June 2007, equivalent to almost 8 months of imports of goods and 
non-factor services. The real effective exchange rate is fairly close to its International Monetary Fund 
(IMF)-estimated long-term equilibrium level. Egypt is now better integrated with the world economy with 
stronger trade, investment, and remittances. Hence, productivity rose more in those segments of the 
economy where the private sector’s share in investment and output grew most.  The rise in private 
investment and the surge in foreign direct investment (FDI doubled to US$6 billion between 2003-2004 
to 2005-06 and again to US$11 billion in 2006-07) suggest favorable market perceptions that augur well 
for Egypt’s future growth sustainability. 
 
An integral component of this comprehensive reform program was a Financial Sector Reform 
Program that was endorsed by the President in September 2004 for implementation over 2005-2008.  This 
program addresses financial sector weaknesses in order to increase private sector participation, promote 
diversification of intermediaries and instruments, and strengthen the environment for resource 
mobilization, financial intermediation and risk management. The program is divided into two phases: 
Phase I, from July 2004 to June 2006 and Phase 2, from July 2006 to June 2008.  The implementation of 
Phase I was supported by the Financial Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL I) that was approved by 
the Board on in June 15, 2006 (Report No. 36197—EG). The Financial Sector Reform Program is being 
supported by various donors, namely USAID, European Commission (EC), and the African Development 
Bank (AfDB).  The second DPL of US$500 million would support the authorities’ implementation and 
partial funding of the costs of the second phase of the reform program. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The main objective of the operation is to support the Government’s efforts to build up a sound, 
efficient, and diversified financial sector, capable of contributing to Egypt’s growth performance and 
providing access to a broad segment of Egypt’s population.  The operation would support Phase II of the 
reform program, which includes a comprehensive agenda for the development of bank and non-bank 
Page  2
financial institutions; with the objective of building a more diversified and balanced financial system, 
capable of providing the broader range of financial services to a wide range of clients while managing 
risks effectively.  This would include the restructuring and privatization of the banking sector, the 
insurance industry, the promotion of investment and pension funds, the strengthening of securities 
regulation, and improvements of the institutional infrastructure for the financial sector, focusing on 
information infrastructure (credit bureau, and credit registry), payments system, and the establishment of 
specialized commercial courts. By supporting the second phase of the reform program, the proposed 
operation contributes to the sustainability and irreversibility of the reforms and, therefore, to the 
fulfillment of its final objectives. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed operation is crucial for supporting the continuation and deepening of the financial 
sector reforms.  There is evidence of a strong and causal relationship between the depth and efficiency of 
the financial system, and economic growth.  The Bank Group’s 2007 
Strategy for the Financial Sector
 
emphasizes the use of Bank policy-based lending in support of market reform and strengthening and the 
expansion of access.  Beyond its contribution to economic growth, there is also a growing understanding 
of the importance of access to financial services to the reduction of poverty and inequality.  Moreover, 
this operation is part of a comprehensive assistance which includes analytical work and technical 
assistance.  The Egyptian government has repeatedly indicated its appreciation of the Bank’s integrated 
delivery of assistance, and has requested the operation as a mean to improve program design and to 
enhance discipline in reform implementation.  The perception that the Bank is prepared to remain 
engaged in the reform effort makes the institution a privileged partner. Moreover, the operation provides 
an effective vehicle for the Bank to continue playing a leading coordination role. 
4. Financing 
 
This operation’s main elements are: (i) further and significant reduction of state ownership in the 
banking system; (ii) continuing the financial restructuring of state-owned commercial banks by reducing 
the outstanding non-performing loans (NPLs) of state-owned enterprises by two thirds, settling the private 
NPLs, and substantially improving the provisioning of the state-owned commercial banks, (iii) continuing 
the progress on the operational and institutional restructuring of the state-owned commercial banks and 
beginning the restructuring of state-owned specialized banks; (iv) restructuring the state-owned insurance 
companies; (v) strengthening further the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for banking, 
insurance, pensions, and capital markets; and (vi) improving the financial sector institutional 
infrastructure including the credit information system, auditing, judicial procedures, and the payments 
system. 
Source: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) 
($ 500 million) 
 
Total
$
500
million 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank will monitor the overall status of the government’s Financial Sector Reform Program to 
ensure that the program is well on track. Regular Bank missions will interact closely with staff of the 
Ministry of Investment and the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE), the two entities responsible for overall 
implementation of the reform program, and for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other 
concerned agencies. Bank staff will also interact with the different regulatory and supervisory bodies—
the Mortgage Finance Authority (MFA), the Egyptian Insurance Supervisory Authority (EISA), and the 
Cairo and Alexandria Stock Exchange (CASE), given their responsibility for supervising non-bank 
financial institutions. Bank staff will also continue the policy dialogue from the field with the institutions 
involved in the implementation of the operation, as well as coordinate effectively with donors. Bank 
Page  3
missions will review government progress in the implementation of Phase II of the reform program, 
monitor actions, ensuring that the expected project outputs, outcomes and impact materializes. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits would result from building a much more efficient financial system, led by private 
institutions and operating within a stronger regulatory environment.  Resolution of the large stock of non-
performing loans
—a
salient weakness of the banking sector—would strengthen over the medium-term the 
system capacity for financial intermediation, efficiency in mobilization of savings, and capacity to 
support corporate activities and enhance growth.  However, potential risks could be a slowdown of the 
reform momentum to a path that would not allow for a genuine change towards market-based, risk-taking 
business patterns in the public financial institutions (moral hazard issue).  This relates particularly to the 
government’s commitment to and decisiveness in restructuring the remaining state-owned banks and 
insurance companies. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
There is a large body of research findings within and outside the World Bank showing that 
financial sector reforms are demonstrably linked to growth and poverty reduction. They are fundamental 
to reforms in other sectors, including private sector development, infrastructure, housing and social 
policies. Strengthening financial infrastructure acts as a steady promoter of growth and reduces the 
frequency and cost of financial crises. Prevention of financial crises is essential to poverty reduction. For 
these reasons, building sound, efficient and inclusive financial systems that work for all members of 
society and that are not prone to abuse or corruption is central to the growth and poverty reduction 
agenda. The operation objectives to improve the efficiency of the financial sector will have a direct and 
positive impact on growth. Through this operation, a more efficient financial sector is expected to 
improve savings mobilization and access to finance by private enterprises—key drivers of investment and 
growth—so they may invest and create the necessary jobs that raise living standards.  Bank restructuring 
are often associated in the short-term with staff redeployment resulting from optimization of labor input 
and skill upgrading.  In that regards, voluntary early retirement packages and training programs have been 
offered to employees.  The preparation of the proposed operation has entailed broad discussions with 
market participants from all pillars of the financial sector. 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Sahar Ahmed Nasr 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+2)-02-2574-1188 Ext. 215 
Fax: (+2)-02-2574-1676 
Email: Snasr@worldbank.org 
Location: Cairo, Egypt (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org
 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  4
