Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3548 
Operation Name 
Financial Sector Development Policy Loan II 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Banking (40%);Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and 
contractual savings (20%);Capital markets (20%);Central 
government administration (15%);General finance sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P094551 
Borrower(s) 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
CENTRAL BANK OF EGYPT, MINISTRY OF INVESTMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
January 3, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 15, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 19, 2008 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
As part of its comprehensive reform agenda, the Egyptian Government is undertaking substantial reforms 
in the financial sector, announced in late 2004 and outlined in the five-year Financial Sector Reform Program 
(2005-2009) within a comprehensive economic reform agenda.  The financial sector program is devided into two 
phases and has three main components: (i) reforming the banking sector through reducing the role of state banks 
in the joint venture banks, restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks and, consolidation and 
strengthening of small private banks; (ii) restructuring and privatizing non-bank financial institutions; and (iii) 
strengthening the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework for banks and non-bank financial institutions in 
line with international standards. 
 
2. 
One of the CAS objectives is to strengthen 
the capacity of the financial system to facilitate private 
sector development.  The CAS envisages providing 
support to the financial sector reform program through 
two DPLs between FY06 and FY09. The first of these loans, Financial Sector Development Policy Loan (FS DPL 
I) has been successfully completed. The Bank has been working closely with the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) in 
the restructuring of the banking system, as well as with the Ministry of Investment in developing and 
implementing a detailed restructuring program for non-bank financial institutions, focusing on the insurance 
sector. The 
government’s achievements thus far in implementing this reform program is sufficiently encouraging 
for the Bank to prepare a follow-up FS DPL. 
 
3. 
The proposed Financial Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL II) will assist CBE and the Ministry of 
Investment in implementing Phase II of the Financial Sector Reform Program.  The Bank is well placed to expand 
its assistance in these areas, building on the analytical framework developed on the financial sector and on the 
policy dialogue established with the different stakeholders.  The operation will build upon achievements of recent 
Bank project (DPL I) and recommendations laid out in various ESWs (2007 Access to Finance and Growth in 
Egypt and 2007 Financial Sector Assessment Program Update (FSAP)).  The operation will also draw upon 
successful non-lending TA provided under the FIRST Initiative.  Donors have provided and will continue to 
provide assistance in a comprehensive, well-coordinated manner to this program. Coordination with other donors 
will prevent duplication of efforts and ensure complementarity to help the government implement the reform 
agenda.  
 
II. Proposed 
objective 
 
Page  2
4. 
The main objective of DPL II is to continue supporting the government implement its reform program.  It 
would aim to strengthen the enabling environment for financial intermediation, enhance resource mobilization 
and risk management, and increase the private sector
’s role and participation in the provision of financial services 
to support real economic growth. The operation would ensure an adequate beginning to the implementation of 
Phase II of the reform program—the medium-term objectives, and an execution of a comprehensive reform 
program, which would ensure sustainability and irreversibility. Within the medium-term implementation frame of 
the Financial Sector Reform Program.  The proposed operation would be results-focused: it will include 
monitoring the impact of the Financial Sector Reform Program on the performance of banks, insurance 
companies, and capital markets, in addition to access to finance. 
 
5. 
The project will contribute towards greater financial sector stability by supporting: (i) reducing public 
ownership in, and control over, banking sector institutions; (ii) financial, institutional and operational 
restructuring of state-owned banks; (iii) continue strengthening of the legal, regulatory and supervisory 
framework in banking and insurance; (iv) restructuring state-owned insurance companies; (v) deepening, 
strengthening and improving of the efficiency of capital markets; and (vii) continuing the development of the 
financial institutional infrastructure. 
 
III. Preliminary 
description 
 
6. 
The proposed operation would support Phase II of the government’s financial sector reform program and 
follows up DPL I. This operation’s main elements are: (i) further reduction of state ownership in the banking 
system; (ii) continuing the financial restructuring of state-owned commercial banks by reducing the outstanding 
NPLs and substantially improving the provisioning of the state-owned commercial banks, (iii) continuing the 
progress on the operational and institutional restructuring of the state-owned commercial banks and beginning the 
restructuring of state-owned specialized banks; (iv) restructuring the state-owned insurance companies and 
initiating their privatization; (v) strengthening further the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for 
banking, insurance, pensions, and capital markets; and (vi) improving the financial sector institutional 
infrastructure. 
 
IV. Environment 
Aspects 
 
7. 
The policies supported by the proposed adjustment development policy loan are not likely to have any 
significant direct effects on the environment and natural resources.  In addition, the indirect impacts that the DPL 
is likely to have on the environment are difficult to predict but are expected to be marginal. 
 
V. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 
Total 
US$ 500 million 
 
VI. Contact 
point 
Contact: Sahar Ahmed Nasr 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: +2-02-2574-1188 
Fax:  +2-02-2574-1676 
Email: Snasr@worldbank.org 
Page  3
Location: Cairo, Egypt (IBRD)
 
