                             Document of
                            The World Bank




                                               Report No. ICR00001544




      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-75280)


                              ON A LOAN

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$500 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                TO THE

                     ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                FOR A

     SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                            February 8, 2010




Social and Economic Development Group
Egypt, Yemen and Djibouti Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
        ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT--GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                         July 1st ­ June 30th

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2009)
                 Currency Unit        Egyptian Pound
                   US$1.00                LE 5.48

                         WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                             Metric System

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB     African Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CASE     Cairo and Alexandria Stock Exchange
CBE      Central Bank of Egypt
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMA      Capital Market Authority
ECB      European Central Bank
EISA     Egyptian Insurance Supervisory Authority
EMRC     Egypt Mortgage Refinancing Company
EU       European Union
FIRST    Financial Sector Strengthening Program
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSRP     Financial Sector Reform Program
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOE      Government of Egypt
GSF      Guarantee and Subsidy Fund
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IHC      Insurance Holding Company
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MFA      Mortgage Finance Authority
MTPL     Motor Third Party Liability
NPL      Non-performing Loan
RTGS     Real Time Gross Settlement
SIF      Social Insurance Fund
SOE      State-owned Enterprises




                        Vice President:   Shamshad Akhtar
                     Country Director:    A. David Craig
                       Sector Director:   Ritva S. Reinikka
                      Sector Manager:     Simon Bell
                    Task Team Leader:     Sahar Nasr
                                  ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                     SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                                       Table of Contents

DATA SHEET
  A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................... i
  B. Key Dates................................................................................................................................ii
  C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................................................ii
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................ii
  E. Bank Staff ..............................................................................................................................iii
  F. Results Framework Analysis..................................................................................................iii
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs............................................................................iiiii
  H. Restructuring .......................................................................................................................iiiii

    1. PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN............................................ 2
    2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ............................................. 4
    3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................................... 9
    4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME ............................................................ 13
    5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................... 13
    6. LESSONS LEARNED ................................................................................................................ 16
    7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS ...... 17

    Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 18
    Annex 2: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................................. 20
    Annex 3: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................................... 26
    Annex 4: Operational Policy Matrix ......................................................................................... 26
    Annex 5: Achievements of Project Development Objectives ................................................ 32
    Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 39
    Annex 7: Key Operational and Financial Performance Indicators............................................ 40

    MAP .......................................................................................................................................... 42




                                                                       i
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Financial Sector
                        Egypt, Arab Republic
Country:                                        Program Name:            Development Policy
                        of
                                                                         Loan II
Program ID:             P094551                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-75280
ICR Date:               05/12/2010              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         ARAB REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                         EGYPT
Original Total
                        USD 500.0M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 500.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 500.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Central Bank of Egypt
 Ministry of Investment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/10/2007     Effectiveness:            03/23/2009           03/23/2009
Appraisal:            03/24/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/29/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2009           12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings              Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Highly Satisfactory Government:                        Not Applicable
                                             Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                                     Not Applicable
                                             Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
                         Highly Satisfactory                                  Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                 Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        Yes                                             None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               42                  42
Capital markets                                                       25                  25
 Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                                                                      17                  17
savings
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement                  16                  16


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other financial and private sector development                        17                  17
Regulation and competition policy                                     33                  33
Standards and financial reporting                                     17                  17
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:          A. David Craig                       A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Simon C. Bell                        Simon C. Bell
Program Team Leader:       Sahar Ahmed Nasr                     Sahar Ahmed Nasr
ICR Team Leader:           Sahar Ahmed Nasr
ICR Primary Author:        James A. Hanson




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the operation is to support the Governmentâ s efforts to build up a
sound, efficient, and diversified financial sector, capable of contributing to Egyptâ s
growth performance and providing access to a broad segment of Egyptâ s population.
By supporting the second phase of the reform program, the proposed operation
contributes to the sustainability and irreversibility of the reforms and, therefore, to the
fulfillment of its final objectives.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                   Build a more resilient, competitive financial sector with sound banking system,
Indicator 1 :      capital market, and insurance industry to contribute better in the medium-term,
                   to the provision of modern services
                                            A sound, and
                                            competitive
                                            financial system
                                            with an effecient
                   A financial system that
                                            banking system,
Value              is not operating
                                            capital market, and
(quantitative or   effeciently and is not
                                            insurance industry
Qualitative)       playing an ative role in
                                            contributing in the
                   financial intermediation
                                            provision of
                                            modern &
                                            effective financials
                                            services
Date achieved      06/29/2006               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Reduction of Public Ownership and Control of Banks and Consolidation of the



                                                iii
                   Banking Sector
                   State-owned banks
Value
                   share in total banking Less than 50%
(quantitative or
                   system assets was 60% public ownership
Qualitative)
                   in June 2006
Date achieved      06/30/2006             12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Financial and Operational Restructuring of Remaining Commercial State-
Indicator 2 :
                   Owned Banks and Specialized State-owned Banks
                   Performance indicators
                   of commercial and       State-owned banks
                   specialized state-owned in full regulatory
Value
                   banks, such as private compliance and
(quantitative or
                   sector credit-to-GDP, competing with
Qualitative)
                   NPLs-to-total loans, private banks on a
                   return on assets, and   level playing field.
                   return on equity.
Date achieved      06/29/2006              12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework of the Banking
Indicator 3 :
                   Sector
                   The capacity building
                                          Completion of
                   measures in banking
                                          Phase II of the
Value              regulation and
                                          capacity building
(quantitative or   supervision of the
                                          measures in
Qualitative)       Central Bank of Egypt
                                          banking regulation
                   (CBE)--Phase I has
                                          and supervision
                   been completed.
Date achieved      06/29/2006             12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Restructuring of State-owned Insurance Companies
                   The due diligence of    The merged
                   three state-owned       company is
Value
                   insurance companies operating
(quantitative or
                   has been completed,     commercially with
Qualitative)
                   pending                 sound corporate
                   implementation          governance
Date achieved      06/29/2006              12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework in Insurance and
Indicator 5 :
                   Pensions


                                              iv
                                          State-owned
Value              Issuance and enactment insurers have
(quantitative or   of Motor Third Party established
Qualitative)       Liability (MTPL)       adequate MTPL
                                          claims provisions.
Date achieved      06/29/2006             12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Improving the Efficiency of Capital Markets
                                          Successful CMA
                                          actions to enforce
                                          compliance with
                   Enactment of Capital
Value                                     new capital
                   Market Law
(quantitative or                          adequacy ratio and
                   amedments, pending
Qualitative)                              risk mangement
                   enforcement
                                          requirements for
                                          financial
                                          intermediation
Date achieved      06/29/2006             12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Strengthening the Financial Sector Institutional Infrastructure
                                          - Development of
                                          an accurate and
                                          comprehensive
                                          database at the
                   - Establishment of a   private credit
                   private credit bureau. bureau.
Value
                   - Signing contract for -
(quantitative or
                   RTGS                   Operationalization
Qualitative)
                   - Draft Economic Court of the RTGS
                   Law to Parliament.     system.
                                          -
                                          Operationalization
                                          of the Economic
                                          Courts.
Date achieved      06/29/2006             12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)


                                                 v
  1    12/03/2008       Satisfactory        Satisfactory     0.00
  2    09/02/2009       Satisfactory        Satisfactory   498.75
  3    03/31/2010       Satisfactory        Satisfactory   498.75


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       vi
1.         Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.       Context at Appraisal
Macroeconomic Framework
1.      Over the last five years Egypt's government has implemented significant structural
reforms. These include liberalization of trade, a complete overhaul of the tax system, restructuring
and improving regulations of the financial sector, and privatization of state-owned enterprises
(SOEs). These reforms led to a friendlier investment climate which, in a favorable global
economic environment, generated a strong private-sector supply response. Real Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth increased from an average of 3.5 percent during FY01-04 to around 7
percent between FY06 and FY08 -- a record compared to the previous twenty-five years. Egypt
also accumulated significant net international assets in FY05-FY08, due to both internal and
external factors.

2.      Despite the progress made, Egypt faces many challenges in maintaining sustainable
economic growth, and addressing economic, social and regional inequalities. The global economic
slowdown that began in 2008 has adversely affected growth and employment in Egypt. In FY09,
growth decreased to 4.7 percent and is expected to increase to only 5.5 percent in FY10 as the
global economy recovers. Employment growth is expected to fall to 2.3 percent, and the
unemployment rate is expected to increase to about 10 percent by FY10.1 To meet these
challenges, Egypt needs to diversify the sources of economic and employment growth, and raise
the efficiency of resource allocation without exerting undue pressure on the already strained
environment.

Sector Background
3.       The financial sector in Egypt has been, over the past decade and a half, the subject of
reform efforts. These reforms aimed at financial liberalization to develop more effective financial
instruments, strengthen the system infrastructure, and enhance competitiveness through increased
private participation. The sector was subject to various legal and regulatory reforms. However,
despite these positive steps, the financial system continued to face significant challenges prior to
the 2004-2008 reform program given the low levels of competition, large non-performing loans
(NPLs), relatively high intermediation costs, limited innovation, and dominance of state
ownership. The non-bank segment was characterized by underdeveloped bond market, insurance,
thin trading in equities, and underdeveloped mortgage markets.

4.      The political and economic context at appraisal of this operation was conducive. The
reformist cabinet that took office in July 2004 set a major agenda of macroeconomic and structural
reforms. An integral component of this comprehensive reform program was the Financial Sector
Reform Program that was endorsed by the President in September 2004 for implementation over
2005­2008. This endorsement set the stage for the Ministry of Investment and the Central Bank of
Egypt (CBE) to embark on implementing this reform program aimed at addressing the identified
vulnerabilities, and enhancing the performance of the banking sector, as well as developmental
non-bank financial institutions, including the insurance sector, the capital market, and the
mortgage industry. Underpinning the whole program was also a major effort at strengthening the
regulatory capacity and supervisory framework.

5.       In this regard, lending further credence to the authorities' determination to see the reforms
through, sweeping executive measures--uncharacteristic of the consensus-driven Egyptian
establishment--were taken with the appointment of a new CBE Governor, and new management
for the Egyptian Stock Exchange. The newly established Ministry of Investment was given
oversight for all non-bank financial institutions. In parallel, new management was appointed for
the state-owned banks and insurance companies.



1
    World Bank, Macro Policy Notes (2009).
                                                  2
6.      So far, the results of the Financial Sector Reform Program (2004-2008) seem to have
prepared the financial system for weathering the global financial crisis, by improving its soundness
and resiliency. The reform program forced a strengthening of bank's capital, a clean-up of banks'
non-performing loans, and a consolidation of the banking system. Moreover, significant reforms
have taken place in non-bank financial institutions--the insurance sector, capital markets, and
mortgage finance. The financial sector institutional infrastructure has also significantly improved.

Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.      There is evidence of a strong and causal relationship between the depth and efficiency of
the financial system, and economic growth. Beyond its contribution to economic growth, there is
also a growing understanding of the importance of access to financial services to the reduction of
poverty and inequality. The Bank Group's 2007 Strategy for the Financial Sector emphasizes the
use of Bank policy-based lending in support of market reform and strengthening the expansion of
access.

8.       The operation was crucial for supporting the continuation and deepening of the financial
sector reforms that were supported by DPL I. It is part of a comprehensive assistance which
includes analytical work and technical assistance. The Egyptian government has repeatedly
indicated its appreciation of the Bank's integrated delivery of assistance, and has requested the
operation as a means to improve program design and to enhance discipline in reform
implementation. The perception that the Bank is prepared to remain engaged in the reform effort
makes the institution a privileged partner. Moreover, the operation provides an effective vehicle
for the Bank to continue playing a leading coordination role.

1.2.    Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
9.       The main objective of the operation is to support the Government's efforts to build up a
sound, efficient, and diversified financial sector, capable of contributing to Egypt's growth
performance and providing access to a broad segment of Egypt's population. By supporting the
second phase of the reform program, the proposed operation contributes to the sustainability and
irreversibility of the reforms and, therefore, to the fulfillment of its final objectives.

10.      To this effect, the World Bank operation sought to achieve: (i) reduction of public
ownership and control of banks and consolidation of the banking sector; (ii) financial and
operational restructuring of state-owned banks; (iii) strengthening the regulatory and supervisory
framework of the banking sector; (iv) restructuring of state-owned insurance companies;
(v) strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework in insurance and pensions;
(vi) improving the efficiency of capital markets; and (vii) strengthening the financial sector
institutional infrastructure.

11.      These outcomes were to be measured by key indicators: (i) completing the privatization of
Bank of Alexandria; (ii) completion of divestiture of more than 95 percent of the portfolio of state-
owned banks shares in joint-venture banks; (iii) completing the consolidation of the banking
system; (iv) substantial progress in implementing the program of financial restructuring and
recapitalization of state-owned banks; (v) further progress in implementing the institutional and
operational restructuring of the remaining state-owned banks; (vi) addressing current problems and
future role of the three state-owned specialized banks; (vii) continued capacity building for a
strengthened regulatory and supervisory framework; (viii) completion of operational restructuring
of the merged insurance company; (ix) significant improvement of the insurance regulatory and
supervisory framework; (xi) building a solid institutional investor base; (xii) adequate enforcement
of new regulations in investment funds; (xiii) establishment of a private credit bureau;
(xiv) signing off of a contract for the implementation of an RTGS system; and (xv) issuance of
Specialized Economic Courts Law.

1.3.    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators
12.     The PDO and the key indicators have remained the same during the life of the project.
                                                 3
1.4.       Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program
13.      Phase II of the Financial Sector Reform Program is aimed at completing the
implementation of the reform program. In the banking sector, it focuses on reducing state
ownership through completing the privatization of the Bank of Alexandria, and further divesting
the small and remaining state-owned banks' shares in joint-venture banks. In addition the program
aimed at implementing the institutional and operational restructuring of the remaining state-owned
commercial banks, as well as financial restructuring mainly through completing the settlements of
NPLs of SOEs in state-owned banks, and the workout arrangements for private NPLs. The
program also initiate reforms of the specialized state-owned banks, through preparing the terms of
reference for the financial due diligence of the state-owned specialized banks and initiating their
restructuring programs. Moreover, the program was underpinned by the strengthening of the bank
regulation and supervision, including further strengthening of off-site supervision, and improving
banks' risk management and governance.

14.      On non-banks, the program includes a comprehensive program of restructuring of the
insurance sector, strengthening the regulatory framework for insurance, developing the actuarial
profession, addressing the under-funding problem of the existing defined-benefit pension schemes,
removing the regulatory obstacles to the growth of investment funds, further deepening and
improving the efficiency of capital markets by, inter-alia, strengthening accounting and auditing
practices, improving capital adequacy standards of intermediaries, simplifying listing schedules,
and establishing a stock exchange for small and medium firms. Finally, Phase II aims to improve
the institutional framework through improvements in the financial sector institutional
infrastructure including the credit information system, auditing, judicial procedures, and the
payments system.

15.       Accordingly, the DPL II was designed to support the authorities in the implementation of
the policy reforms of Phase II of the Financial Sector Reform Program outlines above, focusing in
the following areas: (i) reduction of public ownership and control of banks, and consolidation of
the banking sector; (ii) financial and operational restructuring of state-owned banks;
(iii) strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework of the banking sector;
(iv) restructuring of state-owned insurance companies; (v) strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory framework in insurance and pensions; (vi) improving the efficiency of capital
markets; and (vii) strengthening the financial sector institutional infrastructure.

1.5.       Revised Policy Areas
16.        The policy areas were not revised during the life of the project.

1.6.       Other significant changes
17.     There were no changes made to the project from the design stage to the completion of the
operation.

2.         Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1.       Program Performance
Number of
 tranches         1
 Tranche              Amount          Expected Release       Actual Release         Release
                                            Date                  Date
       1          500,000,000        February 20, 2009       March 26, 2009         Regular

18.     The delay in disbursing the loan was due to the fact that Egyptian constitution requires all
projects to be ratified by the Parliament only after their approval by the Board of the Bank. In
addition to the summer recess, elections and other parliamentary business (constitutional
amendments and ratification of other laws concerning approval of economic reforms) lengthened
the queue for Parliamentary approval. In addition, given the comprehensiveness of the financial
                                                 4
 sector reform agenda, Parliamentarians spent far more time than usual discussing the reforms
 supported under the DPL before finally approving the loan in March 2009, and the project became
 effective on March 23, 2009. The Loan Agreement was signed on October 30, 2008.


                                                 Tranche 1
      List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                               Status
A.    The Borrower has maintained a sound macro-economic framework consistent
                                                                                            Met
      with the objectives of the Program
B.    The Borrower has prepared for divestiture of remaining 20 percent of state-
                                                                                            Met
      owned shares in Bank of Alexandria, including retention of a sales adviser
C.    The Borrower has implemented a divestiture of 94 percent of the portfolio of
                                                                                            Met
      state-owned banks' holdings in joint venture banks
D.    The Borrower has made substantial progress in financial restructuring of the
      state-owned commercial banks, including the settlement of at least 60 percent of
                                                                                            Met
      the non-performing loans of state-owned enterprises held by state-owned banks
      outstanding as of June 2004
E.    The Borrower has adopted and put into effect a framework, satisfactory to the
      Bank, for institutional and operational restructuring of the National Bank of         Met
      Egypt and Banque Misr
F.    The Borrower has adopted and put into effect a detailed program, satisfactory to
      the Bank, for capacity building in the areas of banking regulation and                Met
      supervision
G.    The Borrower has implemented a comprehensive program of restructuring of
      the state-owned insurance sector, including the legal merger of three state-          Met
      owned insurance companies
H.    The Government has submitted to Parliamentary amendments to Insurance Law
      (Law 10), including: (i) increase in minimum capital; (ii) corporatization of
      insurance brokers; (iii) independent funding for the Egyptian Insurance               Met
      Supervisory Authority (EISA); and (iv) Separation of life and non-life insurance
      business
I.    The Borrower has adopted and started implementing International Financial
      Reporting Standards (IFRS) requirements for listed companies, and securities          Met
      firms
J.    The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Executive Regulations of the
      Capital Market Law (CML) that enhance capital adequacy standards and risk             Met
      management requirements, regulated by the Capital Market Authority (CMA)
K.    The Borrower has issued and enacted Executive Regulations to the amended
      CML with respect to investment funds that: (i) clarify their legal structure;
      (ii) improve the computation of net asset values; (iii) improve funds' disclosure;    Met
      and (iv) reduce minimum paid-up capital for fund managers to two percent of
      assets under management
L.    The Borrower has adopted the legal and institutional framework for the
      establishment of a private credit bureau, and a private credit bureau has been        Met
      established
M.    The Borrower has signed a contract with a private vendor for the
      implementation of a Real Time Gross Settlement Payments System (RTGS),                Met
      complying with international standards and best practices
N.    The Government has submitted draft Specialized Economic Courts Law to the
                                                                                            Met
      Parliament
O     The Borrower has developed a strategy for micro lending through non-bank
                                                                                            Met
      financial institutions (NBFIs) to increase access to finance




                                                 5
2.2.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Adequacy of Government's Commitment
19.     Strong government commitment to the reform program was key to the success of the
operation. The presence in the new cabinet of a core group of credible reformers, including the
Minister of Investment and the Governor of the CBE, sent an unequivocal signal to investors and
the donors' community that Egypt is seriously committed to move towards a private-led economy.
They designed a comprehensive program of reforms and moved swiftly to recruit highly qualified
and experienced professionals in the market especially for the purpose of implementing the
banking and nonbanking sector reforms. The successful implementation also benefited from an
enhanced communications and consultation process through the new strategic partnership between
the Egyptian authorities and the Bank during the formulation of the CAS. This involved a
constructive dialogue with the authorities based on the principle of mutual commitment between
the Egyptian authorities and the Bank, through a policy compact, whereby the Bank commits to
support the reform process (not just specific ad hoc measures) in Egypt, and the government
commits to continuing along an agreed upon reform path.

Soundness of Background Analysis
20.     The design and implementation of the second phase of the Financial Sector Reform
Program and this DPL were significantly enhanced by the analytical work carried out in 2002 in
the context of the FSAP: the 2005 and 2006 Investment Climate Assessments, the 2007 report on
Access to Finance, the 2007 FSAP Update, the fee-based Technical Assistance on Governance,
Anti-corruption, and Regulatory Reforms; an SOE Corporate Governance Study, and an
Accounting and Auditing Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) Update. The
follow-on policy dialogue and the successive FIRST Initiatives which helped greatly clarify the
capacity building needs. The experience that the World Bank has gathered in development policy
lending in the financial sector was used by the authorities to guide the design and implementation
of the program. USAID and the European Union (EU) have also supported analytical work on
reforming and restructuring the financial sector.

Assessment of the Operation's Design
21.     The design of the operation was well thought out. The operation was a one-tranche
operation to support the government in implementing phase II of the Financial Sector Reform
Program. At the preparation stage of DPL I there was the option of having a programmatic
operation amounting US$ 1 billion, or two operations amounting to US$ 500 million each, aimed
at implementing the reform program. At the Operational Committee (OC) meeting for DPL I, a
decision was made to proceed with two operations, aiming to support the government in
implementing the two phases of the government program, which was consistent with the CAS
which envisioned two financial sector operations (FY 2006 and FY 2008). Two separate
operations were considered more underpinning to irreversible policy measures, as disbursement
would occur upon the realizations of up front, specific actions under each phase. This would in
turn ensure more stringent government commitment to the comprehensive implementation of the
reform program.

22.      Despite the complexity of the reform program and the number of organizations involved
domestically, as well as outside donors, the policy areas were well identified and narrowly
focused; and reforms were sliced into two stages according to their degrees of priority. The
Egyptian government has repeatedly indicated its appreciation of the Bank's integrated delivery of
assistance, and has requested the operation as a means to improve program design and to enhance
discipline in reform implementation. The perception that the Bank is prepared to remain engaged
in the reform effort helped the dialogue and made the Bank a privileged partner.

23.     Given the multifaceted nature of the financial sector reform effort, donors' contributions
were needed. In this context, the authorities sought assistance from other donors to complement
that of the Bank to help them implement this comprehensive and substantive reform program.

                                                6
Given the World Bank's experience, it chose to address banking sector reform while they worked
on the supervision and regulatory framework. A large technical assistance program including
intensive capacity building for banking supervision was put in place by the European Central Bank
(ECB). USAID provided assistance to the financial sector reforms under a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with the Government of Egypt in mortgage finance and the insurance
sector, and the IMF was concerned with exchange rate and monetary policy management.

24.      The presence of many donors itself posed a challenge which led the Egyptian government
to put in place an innovative approach to donors support by making it clear that it wanted the Bank
to lead the coordination of donors' support to financial sector reform to avoid overlap and address
key issues on a timely and priority basis. To this end, a Financial Sector Donors Sub-group was
formed to coordinate efforts related to both technical and financial support provided to the
government. One outcome of this group is the joint World Bank-EU project for modernizing the
payments system at the CBE.

25.      Furthermore, the innovative approach followed by the Bank and other donors gave the
authorities the flexibility needed to decide on how best to manage the privatization of the Bank of
Alexandria and reduce state ownership in the joint venture banks without unduly imposing
conditionality that could have undermined their bargaining power. The benchmarking approach
helped implementation by focusing on results. In the end, the privatization of Bank of Alexandria
transferred seven percent of the banking deposits while the divestiture of state-owned banks shares
in joint venture banks, which is more than 95 percent complete, transferred about 20 percent of
system deposits to private hands.

Relevance of Risks Identified
26.      Risks identified at appraisal (such as political, social, fiscal, governance, and
sustainability) were relevant and have been well managed as mitigating factors were embedded in
the design of DPL II. To mitigate the risk that social, political and stakeholder opposition would
weaken government resolve as had happened in the previous efforts to reform the financial sector,
the government decided to communicate regularly and in a transparent way the objectives of the
reform program, its expected outcomes, to show that consumers will gain from such reforms in the
end. There was also much better communication of the government's financial sector reform
program to the various stakeholders--parliamentarians, media, and political parties. Contingency
financing in terms of voluntary early retirement and compensation schemes were planned to
alleviate the resulting social burden. In addition, the program included staff training and skills
upgrading for employees whose current profile did not readily fit in the organization chart of the
restructured financial institutions.

27.      The risk to fiscal sustainability from the added burden of bank restructuring (fiscal cost of
the settlement of NPLs, tax settlements, and the cost of compensation packages) on an already
tight fiscal position was correctly identified and adequately managed. Indeed, the government was
able to mobilize significant privatization proceeds of the sale of state-owned bank shares in joint
venture banks, the sale of state owned enterprises (Law 203 companies) and other public entities,
which were then used as planned to partially offset the cost and reduce its potential negative
impact on the fiscal position.

28.      The risks associated with governance were also correctly identified. To minimize the
likelihood that state-owned banks may revert to the old lax management and lending practices that
are at the root of their current problems, recapitalization by the government was made conditional
on the state banks agreeing upon a plan of operational, institutional and financial restructuring
which in turn was made contingent upon, and was to be implemented in step with, the progress of
the capacity building program and restructuring plan designed to strengthen the banks governance
and overhaul their lending and risk control practices, within a timeframe agreed with the Bank.
Full implementation of the institutional and operational restructuring was to remain under close
CBE supervision (acting on the owner's behalf) throughout the restructuring period.

29.     Regarding the risks associated with sustainability, the past five years have proven that the
                                                7
government is committed to the full implementation of the reform program, and in many cases to
delivering more than was envisioned. The successful implementation of the reform program and
the strong dialogue to date and requests for technical assistance to implement the reforms leave the
Bank confident about the execution of Phase II.

30.     Risks related to the implementation of the program of reforms were rightly judged low
because of the strong dialogue and broad agreement on the substance and design of the operation,
the continuous dialogue with official counterparts and thorough adequate supervision of the DPL,
as well as the Bank's recognition for the need to proceed diligently with the reform program. The
financial sector dialogue conducted in Egypt between the 2002 FSAP, the 2007 FSAP Update,
DPL I, and the preparation of this operation allowed for differences between the authorities and the
World Bank to be narrowed down, and for a common view to emerge on a number of priority
sector policy issues and orientations with clear objectives and a transition process to reach them.
These were largely embodied in the government Financial Sector Reform Program. There has
been a broad agreement on the substance and design of the operation components, the scope of
World Bank assistance, and the need to proceed diligently with the reform program.

2.3.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(i)     M&E design
31.     A set of qualitative and quantitative intermediate outcome indicators were defined to
monitor progress towards the achievement of the Program Development Objectives (PDO). The
M&E framework was established during the design of DPL II for the clear purpose of monitoring
progress against the agreed upon benchmarks as outlined in DPL II Operational Policy Matrix (see
Annex 4). These indicators were selected in agreement with government counterparts, taking into
account the availability of data, their relevance and feasibility.

32.      Qualitative operational expected policy outcomes were selected to monitor progress in the
execution of the Financial Sector Reform Program and the operation, such as: (i) reduction of
public ownership and consolidation of the banking sector; (ii) implementation of the strengthening
of the supervisory and regulatory authorities of banks and insurance industry; (iii) progress in the
operational, institutional and financial restructuring of state-owned banks and insurers; and
(iv) restructuring the insurance sector. Quantitative indicators were selected in areas where data
was available, such as: (i) divestiture of 94 percent of the portfolio of state-owned banks holdings
in joint venture banks by May 2008; (ii) reduction of share of state-owned banks to less than 50
percent of total banking sector assets by May 2008; and (iii) settlement of at least 60 percent of
non-performing loans of state-owned enterprises held by state-owned commercial banks as of June
2004 by May 2008.

(ii)    M&E Implementation
33.     Data availability was adequate to follow up on the policy dialogue initiated during
preparation of the operation. The program was jointly implemented by the Ministry of Investment
and CBE. The Ministry had the overall responsibility for implementing the measures related to the
non-bank financial sector, while CBE was the Executing Agency for the aspects of the program
dealing with the banking sector. Within the CBE, a Bank Restructuring Unit (BRU) was set up as
the focal point for implementation of banking reforms. The BRU, headed by a Sub-Governor, a
former international banker, is staffed with highly qualified and experienced professionals, many
of whom were specially recruited for the purpose of implementing the banking reform program.

34.      The overall status of the government's program was well monitored during the supervision
missions to ensure that the reform program was on track, and highlight pending issues to the
authorities throughout the process to ensure that all outcomes expected and agreed upon were met.
In addition, the supervision missions also provided the Bank with the opportunity to inform the
future phase of reforms and continue the policy dialogue with the institutions involved in the
program implementation, and to ensure the deployment of staff and consultants able to advise the
government in all of the policy and technical areas pertaining to the reforms.

                                                 8
(iii)    M&E Utilization
35.      Armed with the information collected from the first ever independent financial due
diligence of the state owned banks, the Bank in coordination with the BRU was able to follow up
on the implementation of the plans to restructure the state-owned bank and enhance their
governance structure. Specific indicators were designed and monitored through meetings with the
state-owned banks' management to monitor progress in cleaning up the balance sheets, upgrading
their IT systems to prepare them for the new competitive and risk management environment. The
Bank's supervision mission's discussions with the BRU and the state-owned banks also helped the
Bank's supervision mission staff monitor progress in implementing these restructuring plans and to
pave the way to more reforms which are going to be implemented under the forthcoming DPL III.

36.     Similarly, at the Ministry of Investment, sub-units were established to ensure the effective
implementation of the various reforms related to the non-bank financial sector. A Steering
Committee on Insurance Reform was already established under DPL I by Ministerial decree and
included the Chairman of EISA, the resident Technical Advisor to EISA, and one senior executive
each from the four public sector insurance companies. The Steering Committee, in turn, set up
small restructuring units within each of the public sector insurance companies, whose mandate
included ensuring proper communication of the envisaged reform measures to the companies' staff
in order to ensure their commitment and effective participation in the program implementation
process. Measures related to the capital market and the mortgage sectors were implemented by the
regulatory authorities, the CMA and the MFA respectively, under the overall supervision of the
Ministry of Investment.

2.4.    Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)
37.      The government's achievements under DPL II are sufficiently encouraging for the Bank to
prepare another follow-up operation in response to the government's request of December 7, 2009
(this was the date of the joint letter from Minister of Investment and CBE Governor to Vice
President requesting DPL III). In this context, the third DPL of US$500 million would support the
authorities' implementation and partial funding of the costs of the second phase of the reform
program. Reforms envisioned include further strengthening the domestic banking system by
continuing the financial and operational restructuring of commercial and specialized state-owned
banks, in addition to strengthening the regulatory and supervisory architecture of the banking
sector. The follow up operation is expected to be presented to the Bank's Board by May 2010.

38.     The second generation reforms of the program would also include a comprehensive
agenda for the development of non-bank financial institutions and securities markets, with the
objective of building a more diverse and balanced financial system, capable of providing a broader
range of financial services to a wide range of clients while managing risks effectively. This would
include the restructuring and privatization of the insurance industry, the restructuring of state-
owned insurance companies, strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework in the
non-banking financial sector, and improving the efficiency of capital markets. More attention
would be given to strengthening the financial sector institutional infrastructure; and
improving financial intermediation.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
39.      The objective of DPL II was to support the Government's efforts to build up a sound,
efficient, and diverse financial sector, capable of contributing to Egypt's growth performance and
providing access to a broad segment of Egypt's population. This objective was adopted
considering that the country had undertaken important measures to build a more resilient
and competitive banking system, through consolidation and reduction of public ownership.
Numerous foreign banks entered the market, which enhances competition. The merger of the
three state-owned insurance companies led to the evolvement of a stronger and better performing
company.
                                               9
40.     The design of the DPL II was highly aligned with the country's priorities and CAS.

41.     They continue to be relevant at ICR preparation as:
         The 2005 CAS's first strategic objective was to "strengthen the capacity of the
           financial system to facilitate private sector development".
         DPL II fits well within the mandate given to the new cabinet to reduce poverty and
           improve living standards.
         Financial sector reforms are demonstrably linked to growth and poverty reduction.
           They are fundamental to reforms in other sectors, including private sector
           development, infrastructure, housing and social policies.
         Strengthening financial infrastructure acts as a steady promoter of growth and reduces
           the frequency and cost of financial crises.
         Prevention of financial crises is essential to poverty reduction.
         DPL II objectives remain those that will be pursued under the forthcoming DPL III;
           this was foreseen at the start of the design of DPL I in 2004, as building a competitive
           financial system is a medium term endeavor which needs years of reforms and
           implementation to fulfill the objectives fully.

42.      Thus, the relevance of objectives, design and implementation is considered
satisfactory, based on: (i) the consistency of the program with government and Bank priorities;
(ii) quality of the design, with a clear focus in the resolution of the deleterious problem of NPLs
and strengthening of the legal, regulatory and supervisory capacity of the banking, capital market
and insurance sectors; and (iii) adequate implementation, that resulted in increased sustainability
of supported reforms as evidenced by the continuation of the reform program which will be
supported by another DPL; by increased private sector interest in Egypt (FDI increased from an
average of 0.6 percent of GDP during FY01-FY04, to 8.6 percent in FY07) suggesting favorable
market perceptions about Egypt's overall macroeconomic and structural reform program,
including the financial sector reform program.

3.2.    Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Achievement of Development Program Objectives is considered satisfactory
43.       Key achievements in the banking sector that are the direct result of the reforms
implemented under DPL II included: (i) former joint ventures are majority privately owned;
(ii) further consolidation of the banking system--the enforcement of stricter prudential rules
resulted in the exit of small and weak banks through a series of mergers and acquisitions, and
reduced the overall number of banks from 57 in 2004 to 39 in 2008; (iii) a competitive banking
system led by strong private sector banks--the share of public sector commercial banks in both
lending and deposits of the banking system has continued to decline in FY ending June 2008, and
the banking system has so far been resistant to the financial crisis; (iv) over 60 percent of state-
owned enterprises (SOE) NPL's settled in cash; (v) Total settlement agreements from January 1,
2004 until November 30, 2009 exceeded 90 perecnt of NPLs (excluding public enterprises' debt)
with collections of 60 percent out of which cash collections represented 85 percent; (vi) doubling
the banking sector's net worth from LE 35 billion in 2004 to LE 70 billion in 2008;
(vii)improvement evident in the operational restructuring of the state-owned commercial banks in
three critical areas (human resource development, risk management, and information technology);
(viii) completion of independent and comprehensive financial due diligence of the state-owned
specialized banks; (ix) increasing the number of operative branches from 1795 in 2004 to 2345 in
2008; (x) continued capacity building measures in banking regulation and supervision-- a two
year technical assistance program provided by the Eurosystem to build a credible risk-based
Banking Supervisory system was completed successfully in November 2007 and deemed
satisfactory by the European evaluation process. A new program was signed in December 2008 to
implement in a three year phase the standardized approach of Basel II framework.


                                                10
44.     However, the initial public offering (IPO) transaction of Bank of Alexandria was not
completed, due to the collapse of equity markets worldwide that made it undesirable to complete
the IPO. However, the bank remains under private management and IFC has taken a 9.9 percent
share of capital.

45.      Main achievements in the non-banking sector that are the direct result of the reforms
implemented under DPL II include: (i) completion of operational restructuring of the merged
insurance company. All legal requirements have been fulfilled, and branches merged. Also, the
new entity has been assigned for the highest rating between merged entities, and a new chairman
has been appointed; (ii) substantial progress in the implementation of the National Insurance
Company's business plan; (iii) state-owned insurers have established adequate MTPL claims
provisions; (iv) effective insurance legislation in place to support the planned reforms and
encourage a more efficient insurance sector--key amendments to Law 10 have been passed;
(v) submission to Parliament of Ministers of draft law overhauling the regulatory framework of the
private pension system--the draft law was submitted to State of Council to be reviewed; (vi) at
least five selected graduates from Egypt receiving international actuarial professional training--an
actuarial development program is in place; (vii) adoption of International Standards of Auditing
(ISA)--and Egyptian translation of ISA issued in June 2008; (viii) enactment of amendment to
Capital Market Law (CML) in June 2008; and (ix) initial listing of several small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) on NILEX--three SMEs listed but IPOs delayed due to poor market
conditions.

46.      On strengthening the Fiduciary Framework for Public Financial Management and
Corporate Financial Reporting, achievements directly related to DPL II, include:
(i) development of a reliable and comprehensive database at the private credit bureau--in the nine
months since its commercial launch, iScore has issued over one million credit reports and signed
up 55 subscribers; (ii) signing off of a contract for the implementation of an RTGS system,
complying with international standards and best practices on March 15, 2009; (iii) issuance of
Specialized Economic Courts Law--in May 2008 Specialized Economic Courts Law 120 of 2008
has been enacted; and (iv) creation of a legal framework for regulation of micro-lending NBFIs
and promulgation of regulated regulations and supervisory framework--in March 2009 the Single
NBFI Regulator Law 10 of 2009 was enacted.

47.      Finally, while in some cases the impact of the actions taken might take time to be felt, in
others it is clear that actions supported by DPL II resulted in appreciable improvements as shown
by the medium term outcome indicators.
        State control of the banking sector was reduced as indicated by the share of the banking
        system deposit under state control or influence which declined from 65 percent in 2004 to
        51 percent in June 2007. This was due to the privatization of Bank of Alexandria, the
        fourth largest state-owned commercial bank, and the divestiture of the state-owned banks'
        shares in 13 of the joint venture banks.
        The stock of NPLs by state-owned enterprises at the state-owned commercial banks was
        curtailed by two thirds, falling from LE 26 billion to LE 10 billion. The stock of private
        sector NPLs was also significantly reduced through the work out unit created at the banks.
        (Total settlement agreements from January 2004 until November 2009 exceeded 90
        percent of NPLs (excluding public enterprises' debt) with collections of 60 pecent, out of
        which cash collections represented 85 percent).
        Provisioning of state-owned banks was improved as shown in the ratio of provisions to
        NPLs which increased for National Bank of Egypt, Bank Misr and Banque du Caire from
        66.5 percent in June 2008 to 74.8 in June 2009.
        The increase in capital requirements and stricter compliance enforcement rules have led to
        a vast consolidation in the banking sector which led to a fall in the number of banks
        operating in the sector from 57 in June 2004 to 39 in October 2008.



                                                11
3.4.    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
48.      The overall outcome rating for DPL II is "satisfactory". Planned reforms were
implemented, some (such as the privatization of Bank of Alexandria) ahead of time and are
achieving their key objectives of restoring soundness in the banking and insurance sector.
Significant institutional strengthening has been carried out in the financial sector. While the
government is pursuing its reform agenda, the impact of the measures taken under DPL II is
perceptible: (i) state control in the banking sector has been appreciably reduced through
privatization and divestiture; (ii) the supervisory and regulatory framework is more robust than it
was before the reforms were launched; (iii) new laws have been introduced and others amended to
remove significant constraints on the development of the insurance sector; (iii) the large stock of
NPLs has been significantly reduced and provisioning boosted, resulting in sounder state banks'
balance sheets; and (iv) state-owned banks have undergone a comprehensive restructuring--
completed on June 30, 2008 which enhanced their operations and profitability, will enable them to
operate as pure commercial entities, and will reduce drastically the likelihood of future claims on
the government budget.

3.5.    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts and Social Development
49.      Though DPL II did not have explicit social development outcomes as objectives, clearly
the shift from a public to a more market-oriented financial system is expected to have a direct and
positive impact on growth, employment, and crisis prevention, while also increasing access of
various social groups, including the poor, to financial services. The privatized Bank of Alexandria
has already increased its outreach in rural areas through mobile banking services outputs, increased
ATMs, and is moving into the SME finance market.

50.      Restoring the soundness of the state-owned insurance companies and increased
competition in the sector will enable the industry to provide better quality products at a more
reasonable cost. This combined with the sharp reduction in stamp duty levied on insurance premia
will lower the cost of insurance for Egyptians and ease access to insurance in a country where
penetration is very low. The measures aimed at addressing the soundness of the private pension
funds and strengthening of the supervisory function of the pension system will ensure that the
interest of retirees are protected in the future and that their savings are well managed.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
51.     DPL II had, and will continue to have, a substantial institutional development impact in
the financial sector even though it was a single-tranche project. The policies supported by the
program are fast transforming the Egyptian financial sector. Substantial capacity building provided
to CBE, and EISA are modernizing these institutions while introducing state of the art risk
management tools and IT systems and will lead to the emergence of a robust supervisory and
regulatory capacity in the country.

52.     The comprehensive operational and institutional restructuring of the two largest state-
owned commercial banks is modernizing these banks and enhancing their operating environment
thereby contributing to enhancing their capacity to increase intermediation and improve savings
mobilization. Substantial staff training sector wide, in and outside Egypt, will have a long lasting
impact and will develop a pool of financial skills hitherto not abundant in Egypt, thereby
contributing to the sustainability of the reforms.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
        Not applicable



                                                12
3.6.    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
        Not applicable

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
         Rating: Low to Negligible
53.      The risks to development outcomes which were well identified at appraisal remain low to
negligible. Three sources of risks were identified at that point: (i) political feasibility and
macroeconomic framework; (ii) building credible and independent regulators; and (iii) state banks
reverting to old lax management practices after recapitalization. After closing the operation, the
risk to the Development Outcome is considered Negligible to Low since the mitigating measures
envisaged in the Program Document are still in place.

        (i) Political feasibility and macroeconomic framework: Nearly two years after appraisal,
        commitment of the government towards the reform program continues to be strong and
        focused on implementation as evidenced by their request for a second operation to support
        the second phase of reforms. In addition, despite some criticism of the privatization of Bank
        of Alexandria by the media, most agree that the privatization was a success and brought in
        more revenues than expected, with the privatized bank leading change in modernizing access
        to financial services. The labor layoffs were also well managed with many leaving
        voluntarily through the various voluntary early retirement programs.

        (ii) Building credible and independent regulatory authorities. The credibility and
        independence of the regulator is the base upon which a resilient financial system may
        emerge and prosper. This risk relates to the authorities' ability, within the program
        timeframe, to build the capacity of and implement the strengthened regulatory and
        supervisory framework. These risks are being adequately managed through the strong
        donor driven capacity building initiatives discussed earlier and the Central Bank of Egypt's
        commitment to continuing to benefit from ECB's existing technical assistance. The
        protocol agreement for a two year technical assistance program ended in December 2007.
        A second 3-year protocol was signed in November 2008 between ECB, and the CBE for
        the implementation of Basel II.

        (iii) Recapitalization without privatization is considered a serious risk of fiscal waste at
        best; such unconditional financial support may provide bank management with the wrong
        signal to pursue their past and costly lending practices. To reduce such a risk, the
        Government is still committed to proceed with the recapitalization of these banks only
        upon the satisfactory implementation of their operational and restructuring plan. Full
        compliance is being closely monitored by CBE (acting on the owner's behalf) and the
        Bank.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.    Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
         Rating: Highly Satisfactory
54.      Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The project team paid particular
attention to ensuring high quality at entry for this operation. The Loan identification and design
were consistent with the CAS, and the recommendations put forward by the 2002 FSAP, and 2007
FSAP Update.
            The Bank was instrumental in taking full advantage of a window of opportunity
        presented by the reformist government that led to this major progress on financial sector
        reforms outcomes.
                                                13
             Sound preparatory work, strong policy dialogue, good working relationships with
        government counterparts, high level of consultation with market participants, and Bank
        expertise led to the design of an operation which took into account the need to build
        regulatory capacity, and manage the key risks (political, social, fiscal, and governance)
        that could derail implementation.
           Close coordination with the USAID, the EU, AfDB and the IMF to help the
        government build the necessary capacity to implement the Program.
            The Bank set a clear results-based framework which included reaching an
        irreversibility step in the privatization process of the Bank of Alexandria, and agreeing to
        subjecting recapitalization of restructured state owned banks to implementation of the
        financial, institutional, and operational plans before taking the operation to the Board.

55.    In addition, the Bank rightly identified the principal risks to which the financial sector was
exposed and ensured that the FS DPL Program would address those risks which were related to the
most vulnerable areas of the financial, banking and insurance sectors.

(b) Quality of Supervision
        Rating: Satisfactory
56.     Bank supervisory performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank conducted two
supervisions. The policy dialogue continued with official counterparts on both the implementation
of the reforms under DPL and on new areas of reforms which the government sought advice on.
Periodic monitoring of the implementation of the reform program and the operation was done
regularly from the field by the task manager, in addition to the periodic supervision missions.
These missions provided sound technical advice to the authorities. The missions followed up on
progress on the agreed monitoring indicators and discussed results with the Ministry of
Investment and CBE as well as other counterparts in the sector. The supervision provided therefore
a crucial channel through which the World Bank team was able to continue to support and advise
the government on the next steps of reforms. These supervision missions had their terms of
reference extended to the preparation of the follow up operation DPL III

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
          Rating: Satisfactory
57.      The rating of satisfactory is based on the following considerations: (i) the project was very
well designed, its PDO was in line with the Country's and the Bank's priorities, the intermediate
indicators were relevant, helped focus the supervision, and helped inform the design of the second
stage of reforms; (ii) the Bank was aware of the challenges involved in seeking the reduction of the
state's ownership of financial sector assets and addressing the restructuring of major financial
institutions so it adopted a flexible results based framework and a risk mitigating strategy, in
consultation with the authorities, who remained committed to the implementing the reforms
despite their high political risks; (iii) from identification to closing, the team was extensively
involved in a policy dialogue with the authorities and independent counterparts, collaborating to
ensure that the ultimate goal of this operation - to assist Egypt in strengthening the enabling
environment for financial intermediation, resource mobilization and risk management, and
increasing private sector role and participation in the provision of financial services- would be
achieved; and; (iv) the project team and the country office developed an optimal level of
cooperation that played a key role in the success of the operation.

58.     The combination of clear and focused policy actions supported in DPL with sustained
dialogue before and after the loan was approved and disbursed, during supervision and preparation
of other operations, resulted in a constructive interaction with counterparts, strengthening
sustainability of the policies supported by DPL in the process.




                                                 14
5.2.      Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
         Rating: Highly Satisfactory
59.      From the design to implementation stage, the government was in the "driver seat" seeking
advice from the Bank where needed to implement its strategic reform agenda. The authorities
remained focused on the success of the Development Objective as they saw its importance in
fulfilling ultimately through the financing of a private sector let investment strategy, their growth
and improvement of Egyptians living standards. In this context, the Government took the initiative
to seek support from other donors according to their respective comparative advantage, and was
keen on ensuring good coordination between the various partners. The decision to request the
Bank to play a lead role succeeded in getting the best out of each donor's support and avoided
waste that comes from unclear donors mandate and overlap. The donors coordinating committee,
chaired by the Bank, also helped the Government address key financial sector issues on a timely
and priority basis.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
          Rating: Satisfactory
Implementing agencies
Ministry of Investment (MOI)              Satisfactory
Central Bank of Egypt (CBE)               Satisfactory

60.      The Ministry of Investment and CBE are the two agencies responsible for the design and
overall implementation of the operation. The Minister of Investment and his staff and the staff of
the BRU and the Banking Supervision Department at CBE in charge of the implementation of the
reforms, including at its head the Governor of CBE and his two deputies, were instrumental to the
success of this operation. They were systematic in the way they went about the design of the
blueprint for the reforms, and seeking advice from the Bank and other donors, at judicial junctures
to keep the implementation moving and get support and advice when they encountered major
challenges. The reporting and coordination of actions between the concerned agencies was
efficient and timely throughout the life of the project resulting in a successful operation that went
far beyond compliance with identified intermediate outcomes as one can see during the follow on
operation that is under preparation. Their availability and knowledge of all the program
benchmarks allowed for a timely presentation to the Board of the operation and for an effective
implementation of the DPL II reform agenda before project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
       The rating of satisfactory is justified by the following:
          The GOE demonstrated a clear ownership of the project. The respective responsibilities of
          the MOI and the CBE where clearly defined reducing to a minimum the opportunities for
          overlapping or misunderstanding.
          The reform program reflected a clear and complete vision of needs of the financial sector. It
          was complete, comprehensive, articulated around the most important issues and sequenced
          according to priorities.
          The GOE was very instrumental in keeping the momentum of the financial reform agenda
          and the operation alive. This was no small task given the comprehensiveness of the reform
          and the scope of the project.




                                                  15
6.      Lessons Learned

(i)    Trusting reformers who demonstrate commitment to reform and giving them the
necessary flexibility to implement these reforms is key to success of reforms
61.      When dealing with credible reformers, one important lesson is to trust their judgment
(since they are in the driver seat and have themselves initiated the reforms rather than being forced
to reform). A more appropriate approach should, therefore, be based around the principle of
mutual commitment between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank, a policy compact whereby the
Bank commits to support the reform process in Egypt and the GOE commits to continuing along
the reform path rather than micromanaging the reform process and imposing conditionality that
undermines the credibility of the reformers with their domestic constituency.

(ii)   Prior Analytical work (FSAP), and Strong back up from development partners
through policy dialogue and technical assistance, Synergies between donors, and flexibility in
implementation of the reforms, are critical to success
62.      The 2002 FSAP, and the 2007 FSAP Update, helped lay a credible blueprint for the design
of the DPL II which in turn made easier the coordination of donors' assistance around the
realization of this blueprint. Given the multifaceted nature of the financial reform effort, the
contribution of many donors was needed. Since most components of the reform are inter-
connected, the coordination of these efforts becomes critical. The Bank team made an excellent
decision, given its experience, to focus its dialogue and assistance to addressing the restructuring
of the banking and insurance sectors, the EU and ECB to work on the supervision and regulatory
framework, the USAID to provide assistance in mortgage finance and the regulatory environment
for the insurance sector, the IMF to focus on exchange rate and monetary policy management, and
the AfDB to join the overall effort through co-financing. Strong communications between the
World Bank team, the Government, and these donors helped cement a solid partnership based on
comparative advantage.

63.      This best practice partnership framework is among the key success factors of this
operation. Indeed, the respective responsibilities were clearly defined, including giving the
authorities the flexibility needed to implement the reforms. Since the Egyptian government had a
clear vision of what needed to be accomplished, cooperation and coordination of support were the
best approach rather than constant "hand holding" and double guessing of the authorities' intent.
The success of the operation required the right balance between flexibility in the implementation
and pro-activity in providing technical assistance and guidance where needed. In this respect, the
approach followed under this DPL II can be considered best practice and one that may benefit
other operations outside Egypt.

(iii)    Consultation with the stakeholders can mitigate opposition to the reforms
64.      Reforms have been undertaken after a process of close and continuous consultation with
all stakeholders. This participative process with wider involvement not only encouraged a more
informed evaluation of underlying content of policies but also enhanced the credibility of policies
and generated expectations that the reform process will be sustained. One of the reasons advanced
for the inability to fully implement the financial sector reform measures in the past was the lack of
public support for the measures.

(iv)    The design of the policy matrix is key to the sustainability of the reforms
65.     A well defined policy matrix owned by the government and endorsed by the Bank and
partners is an essential implementation roadmap for the authorities to move the agenda forward.

(v)     Outside expertise must accompany the reforms for a longer time to ensure
sustainability and a training plan over the short and medium terms must be formalized as an
integral part of the program.
66.     The country is in the midst of a vast program of reforms involving significant laws to be
                                                 16
passed or amended, institutions to be created or reorganized. The pool of financial skills is limited
and public institutions do not always have adequate resources to fund outside expertise or
extensive training needs for their staff to ensure sustainability of the reforms.

(vi)    The single tranche DPL II proved to be a suitable instrument for the Borrower and
the Bank
67.     It responded effectively to the needs of the authorities by providing them timely support
based on clearly established prior actions. It provides quicker feedback and momentum to the
reforms that enables follow up and making early adjustments if necessary. It allows continuity in
the dialogue with the authorities. Single tranche operations define benchmarks based on
information available at the time of implementation and not on some future developments which
might not materialize.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
68.      The Egyptian government praised the Bank's operation in supporting the government in
implementing its ambitious Financial Sector Reform Program, which entails strengthening the
institutional framework and the overall environment for better financial intermediation; resource
mobilization and risk management; and increasing the role of the private sector. Regarding
borrower's performance, the operation witnessed a series of reform measures that aimed at
developing a sound financial sector, such as, the reduction in NPLs, the upgrade of the banking
supervision department at CBE, the consolidation of the banking sector, and the divestiture of
public shares in joint venture banks. The government also acclaimed the team's remarkable deal of
diligence and technical support throughout the operation, in addition to the close coordination and
dialogue (see Annex 2).

(b) Donors and Co-financiers
69.      Donors that are actively involved in the financial sector work, include, USAID, EC, and
AfDB have commended the World Bank's financial sector work, and especially DPL II. Various
donors and international institutions have been providing support for the implementation of the
government's Financial Sector Reform Program through the provision of technical assistance, and
analytical work on reforming and restructuring the financial sector. Technical assistance provided
by Eurosystem was deemed satisfactory by an European HQ evaluation mission. This required
effective coordination, which the Bank took leadership in. A Financial Sector Donors Subgroup,
chaired by the World Bank was formed in mid 2005, to coordinate efforts related to both technical
and financial support provided to the government and to ensure that borrowed funds are used in the
most effective manner. This cooperation led to mutual design and agreement of conditionality
issues that all donors agreed were essential for financial sector reform. In addition, donors were
able to do a much better job of leveraging resources, both loan and technical assistance, when
coordination is effective. Views and feedback of donors were obtained through various
consultations via the Financial Sector Donors Subgroup led by the World Bank.

 (c) Other partners and stakeholders
70.      Stakeholders commended the operation and its positive impact on enhancing competition
and shaping a more sound financial sector in Egypt. Private banks indicated that the Bank's
operation ensured timely and adequate implementation of the Financial Sector Reform Program.
Both local and foreign banks greatly appreciated the consultations that were conducted during the
design of the operation. State-owned banks and state-owned insurers in particular praised the
Bank for providing draft Terms of References for the undertaking of Comprehensive Independent
Audit of State-owned Commercial Bank; Institutional and Operational Strengthening of State-
owned Commercial Bank; and Restructuring and Privatization of State-owned Insurers. These
Terms of References helped in guiding financial institutions in the implementation of the
restructuring programs.


                                                 17
             Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
   a) Task Team members
         Names                               Title                    Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Sahar Nasr              Lead Financial Economist                     MNSED TTL

Samia Msadek            Manager                                      MNAFM Financial management
                                                                             Insurance restructuring and
Rodney Lester           Sr. Adviser                                  FPDSN
                                                                             Supervision
Roberto R. Rocha        Sr. Adviser                                           Banking restructuring

William Mako            Lead Private Sector Development Specialist   MNSFP Capital market

Xavier Reille           Lead Microfinance Specialist                  CGAP    Microfinance

Didier Debals           Senior Financial Specialist                  MNSFP Banking supervision

Gustavo Demarco         Senior Economist                             MNSSP Pension reforms

Hyacinth Brown          Senior Finance Officer                       CTRFC Disbursement

David Freese            Senior Finance Officer                       CTRFC Disbursement

Olasupo Olusi           Young Professional                           MNSED Banking

Ghada Youness           Sr. Counsel                                  LEGEM Legal

Anarkan Akerova         Counsel                                      LEGEM Legal

Steve W. Wan Yan Lun    Operations Analyst                           MNSED Operation

Amira Zaky              Program Assistant                            MNC03 Operation

James Hanson            Consultant                                   MNSED Banking restructuring

Tanis Maclaren          Consultant                                   MNSED Capital market
Supervision
Sahar Ahmed Nasr        Lead Financial Economist                     MNSED    TTL

Rodney Lester           Sr. Adviser                                  FPDSN Insurance sector

Roberto Rocha           Sr. Adviser                                  FPDFS    Banking restructuring

William Mako            Lead Private Sector Development Specialist   MNSFP Capital market

Didier Debals           Senior Financial Specialist                  MNSFP Banking supervision

Gustavo Demarco         Senior Economist                             MNSSP Pensions sector

James Hanson            Consultant                                   MNSED Banking restructuring

Amira Zaky              Program Assistant                            MNC03 Operation

Laila Abdel Kader      Consultant                                    MNSED Financial Sector

Yasmine Wissa           Consultant                                   MNSED Financial Sector

Mohamed El Sherif      Consultant                                    MNSED Financial Sector

                                                      18
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                        USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      26                        127.28
  FY06                                      63                        294.13

                          Total:            89                        421.41
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                      19                        107.25
  FY08                                                                  4.93

                          Total:            19                        112.18




                                       19
                             Annex 2: Summary of Borrower's ICR




                                   Arab Republic of Egypt




Ministry of Investment                                                      Central Bank of Egypt



A. Introduction

Since its appointment in July 2004, the Egyptian Government has embarked on a comprehensive
program of macroeconomic and structural reforms. A key pillar of this comprehensive effort was
the "Financial Sector Reform Program (2005-2008)". This program aimed at creating a sound and
diversified financial sector, capable of contributing to Egypt's growth performance and providing
access to financial services to a much broader segment of the Egyptian population. The main
components of this program included the empowerment of the private sector in the provision of
financial services, the development of effective bank and non-bank institutions providing a wide
range of financial services, and the strengthening of financial infrastructure and the regulatory and
supervisory framework. This entailed strengthening the institutional framework and the overall
environment for financial intermediation, resource mobilization and risk management.

The World Bank's Financial Sector Policy Loan (II) was affected to evidence the continuing
support to the Egyptian Government's economic reform efforts.

B. Assessment of the operation's objectives, design, implementation, and operational
   experience:

    The operation's objective aimed to support the government in the implementation of the
    second phase of its ambitious financial reform program. The program pillars called for (i)
    reforming the banking sector; (ii) restructuring the insurance sector; (iii) deepening the capital
    market; (iv) developing a well-functioning mortgage market; and (v) activating other financial
    services.

    The operation's design and implementation was agreed to be as a single disbursement of the
    full amount of the loan in the amount of US$500 million. This came into effect in view of a
    series of reform efforts that have been concluded, including:

        Reduction of public ownership and control of banks to less than 50 percent of total
        banking sector assets, through: completion of privatization of Bank of Alexandria,
        divestiture of 94 percent of the portfolio of the state-owned banks' shareholding in joint-
        venture banks, as well as further consolidation of the banking system to 40 banks
        through mergers and acquisitions.
        Financial and operational restructuring of the commercial state-owned banks--adoption
        of a viable, time-bound, operational scheme for the settlement of SOEs' NPLs whereby
        outstanding NPLs as of June 2004 will drop by at least 60 percent by May 2008,
                                                 20
         progress in provisioning for NPLs of state-owned commercial banks; substantial
         progress in the implementation of the operational and institutional restructuring of the
         state-owned commercial banks; and finalizing the TORs of the financial due diligence of
         the three state-owned specialized banks.
         Strengthening the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework of the banking system
         via satisfactory implementation of the program for capacity building in banking
         regulation and supervision, including new on-site inspection reports and associated
         training program, preparation for CAMEL based off-site reporting and operational
         macro prudential and regulations unit.
         Restructuring the state-owned insurance companies. Completion of the legal merger of
         the three state-owned insurance companies into Misr Insurance Company; appointment
         of an investment bank to advise on the operational restructuring of the newly merged
         state-owned insurance company.
         Strengthening legal regulatory and supervisory framework in insurance and pensions.
         Adoption of new organizational structure of EISA consistent with an appropriate risk
         based supervisory model. Enactment of new MTPL Law and Executive Regulations,
         beginning to raise premiums to actuarially required levels; and update MTPL claims
         provision, as well as submission to Parliament of key amendments to Insurance Law 10,
         including: (i) increase in minimum capital; (ii) corporatization of insurance brokers; (iii)
         independent funding for EISA; and (iv) Separation of life and non-life insurance
         business. In addition to the completion of a draft law overhauling the regulatory
         framework for private pension funds.
         Improving the ability of capital markets to provide financing and capital
         market/corporate governance discipline through the adoption and implementation of
         IFRS requirements for listed companies and securities firms; establishment of a registry
         for auditors at the CMA; enhanced capital adequacy regulations and risk management
         for financial intermediaries; and establishment of listing requirements and regulatory
         framework for the new SME stock exchange (NILEX), as well as better disclosure, legal
         and pricing clarifications, and reduced capital burdens for the sponsors of investment
         funds.
         Strengthening the financial sector institutional infrastructure, through improving the
         quality and credibility of the credit-information system, developing the public credit
         registry and operationalizing the new private credit bureau; continuing the
         modernization of the payments system at CBE; and setting the legal framework for
         specialized economic courts to address problems of bankruptcy, foreclosure, and
         cumbersome judicial system, as well as regulatory framework for microfinance.

C. Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives:

   The loan objectives were satisfactorily met as reflected by the strengthening of the institutional
   framework, the overall improvement of financial intermediation, resource mobilization and
   risk management, and the increasing private sector role and participation in the provision of
   financial services to support real economic growth.

   Due to early reforms conducted during the period 2004-2008, prudential regulations, and
   strong supervision, the Egyptian banking sector remained immune to the effects of the collapse
   of global financial markets. Key characteristics have undoubtedly helped the banking sector
   continue to function normally amid the global financial turmoil, such as:

       Very limited exposure to the failed and stressed global financial institutions.
       Marginal exposure to risky and impaired assets
       High levels of balance sheet liquidity, as domestic retail deposits correspond to more
       than two thirds of the banking system's liabilities.
       The overall loans-to-deposit ratio is around 55 percent and a high proportion of assets
       are short term and liquid.
                                                21
   Egyptian companies obtain most of their finances domestically i.e. highly sheltered from
   the freeze in international money markets and the higher costs of funds.
   The domestic money and foreign exchange markets have been operating in an orderly
   manner and remain very liquid.

The following summarizes the landmark developments accomplished during this Phase of the
Financial Sector Reform Program:

   Divesture of state owned banks' shares in joint venture banks eliminating conflict of
   interest, and indirect state ownership and intervention. This reform pillar succeeded in
   attracting foreign and regional strategic investments and inviting banking know-how by
   means of drawing regional and international strategic investors.
   State control of the banking sector was reduced as indicated by the direct and indirect
   share of state owned banks of banking system deposits which declined from over 70
   percent in 2004 to 45.5 percent in December 2009. This was due to the privatization of
   Bank of Alexandria, and the divestiture of the state-owned banks shares in the joint
   venture banks.
   The privatization of Bank of Alexandria was acknowledged as one of the most
   successful privatization transaction in the MENA region in recent years.
   Dealing with weak banks by means of consolidations with larger banking institutions,
   which was instrumental in securing depositors' funds, protecting the financial system
   and ensuring its safety amidst the financial crisis.
   Consolidations were encouraged to create robust entities with strong management,
   efficient processes and proper financial coverage, whereby (i) the number of banks has
   declined from 57 banks in December 2004 to a current number of 39 banks; (ii) doubling
   the Banking Sector's Net worth from EGP 35 billion in 2004 to EGP 70 billion in 2008
   and (iii) increasing the number of operative branches from 1795 in 2004 to 2424 in
   September 2009.
   Implementation of a complete operational and financial reform for state owned
   commercial banks, whereby (i) recapitalization measures of state owned commercial
   banks were taken based on results of an independent audit, due diligence and IFRS
   conversions from EAS and (ii) operational and structural reform was implemented for
   National Bank of Egypt and Banque Misr covering 3 backbone areas, namely HR, Risk
   Management, IT & MIS.
   Setting a national policy for dealing with NPL's to improve economic performance and
   enhance growth which lead to (i) the stock of NPLs by state-owned enterprises at the
   state-owned commercial banks was curtailed by two thirds falling from LE 26 billion to
   LE 10 billion; (ii) the stock of private sector NPLs was also significantly reduced
   through the work out units created at the banks. Total settlement agreements from
   1/1/2004 through 30/11/2009 exceeded 90% of NPLs (excluding public enterprises'
   debt) with collections of 60% out of which cash collections represented 85%; and (iii)
   provisioning of state-owned banks was improved as shown in the ratio of provisions to
   NPLs which increased for National Bank of Egypt, Bank Misr and Banque du Caire
   from 66.5 percent in June 2008 to 74.8 in June 2009.
   Completing Phase I of Upgrading the Banking Supervision Unit in line with
   international standards by implementing a risk based approach.
   Completing operational restructuring of the newly merged insurance company (Misr
   Insurance Company). All legal requirements have been fulfilled, and branches merged.
   Also, the new entity has been assigned for the highest rating between merged entities,
   and a new chairman has been appointed.
   Strengthening the legal regulatory and supervisory framework in insurance and pensions
   through (i) adopting a new organizational structure for Egyptian Insurance Supervisory
   Authority consistent with an appropriate risk based supervisory model; (ii) enacting
   amendments to insurance Law 10 including increase in minimum capital, corporatization

                                         22
         of insurance brokers, independent funding for EISA and Separation of life and non-life
         insurance business; (iii) enacting a new Motor Third Party Liability (MTPL) Law and
         Executive Regulations. The strong action already taken on the MTPL front has
         encouraged 12 private insurers to seek authority to enter this sector; (iv) submission to
         the cabinet draft law overhauling the regulatory framework of the private pension system
         by inter alia creating new collective private pension funds and pension companies
         providing professional training; and (v) Continued progress in actuarial assessment of
         private pension funds under EISA guidelines.
         Improving the ability of capital markets to provide financing and capital
         market/corporate governance discipline through (i) the adoption of International
         Standards of Auditing (ISA) and setting stronger CMA rules for certification of external
         auditors; (ii) enactment of amendment to the Executive Regulations of the Capital
         Market Law (CML), enhancing capital adequacy requirements and risk management
         requirements for financial intermediaries regulated by the CMA and successful CMA
         actions to enforce compliance with new capital adequacy ratio and risk management
         requirements for financial intermediaries; (iii) enactment of amendments to CML
         simplifying four listing schedules at the EGX; (iv) establishment of a new SME stock
         exchange (NILEX) and initial listing of several SMEs on NILEX; (v) better disclosure,
         legal and pricing clarifications, and reduced capital burdens for the sponsors of
         investment funds; and (vi) bettering supervision and market surveillance by CMA.
         Issuance of Specialized Economic Courts Law.
         Creation of micro lending NBFIs and promulgation of related regulations and
         supervisory framework.
         The stock market showed positive trends during this period. Turnover in the Egyptian
         exchange has expanded to EGP 280 billion in FY 2008/09, which is a considerable leap
         since its valuation of EGP 72.8 billion in FY 2004/05; while the monthly average value
         of trade increased from EGP 6,069 million in FY 2004/05 to EGP 23,335 million in FY
         2008/09. The volume of trading in the Egyptian exchange has reached EGP 25.9 billion
         in FY 2008/09 up from EGP 3 billion in FY 2004/05. The number of investors registered
         in the Egyptian exchange has increased from 875,000 investors in FY 2004/05 to 1.6
         million investors in FY 2008/09.
         The housing finance market witnessed significant progress on various fronts relating to
         registration fees, efficiency of procedures for land registration, property valuation, and
         access to long-term credit and cost of funding. Eleven mortgage finance companies and
         Egypt Mortgage Refinancing Company with nineteen banks are now operating in the
         market with around EGP 4.3 billion extended as mortgage finance loans as of December
         2009

   Sustaining the reform program on all fronts has fundamentally solidified the business and
   economic environments and provided substantial institutional depth and vigor to execute the
   next phase of the reform program.

D. Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
   implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be
   helpful in the future:
   The operation witnessed a series of reform measures that focused on developing a sound
   financial sector. The majority of the concluded reforms were thoroughly discussed with the
   World Bank on various occasions. Moreover, they mostly converge with the FSAP 2002, and
   2007 FSAP Update recommendations.

   Building on the achievements of the 2004-2008 financial sector Reform Program and core
   objectives focusing on (i) deepening the Egyptian banking sector, enhancing its efficiency,
   competitiveness, transparency and risk management practices to ensure that it will effectively
   conduct its role in financial intermediation to sustain domestic economic growth and
   development, (ii) restructuring the Insurance Sector, (iii) deepening the Capital Market, (iv)

                                               23
   developing the Mortgage Finance Market, and (v) enhancing other Financial Services, a new
   phase of the Financial Sector Reform Program (2009-2012) was launched in January 2009.

   The strategic pillars of the financial sector reform program focus on:

       Supervising and monitoring the launch of a complete operational and financial
       restructuring plan for the three state owned specialized banks (PBDAK, EALB, and
       ID&WB).
       Following up on the operational and institutional restructuring of NBE, BM and BDC to
       ensure sustainability of phase I restructuring achievements, and finalizing the
       requirements necessary to improve their efficiency in financial intermediation and risk
       management.
       Implementing Basel II framework in the Egyptian banking sector.
       Reviewing and enforcing the implementation of Corporate Governance rules in the
       banking sector and the Central Bank of Egypt.
       Adopting an initiative promoting the development and growth of banking
       activities/services catering for various sectors especially the SME sector.
       Improving access to finance, especially for SMEs through introducing a new legislation
       regulating the micro finance activities, reinforcing the operations of the Nile Stock
       Exchange (NILEX) for SMEs, improving medium and long-term financing through
       developing the bonds market; as well as enhancing and developing the secondary market
       for bonds via promoting the establishment of collective investment vehicles.
       Expanding the activities of the financial institutions in remote areas to provide credit and
       other financial services for SMEs.
       Strengthening the regulatory and supervisory Framework in the Non-Banking Financial
       Sector via the establishment of the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA)
       consolidating the regulatory bodies of non-bank financial services, markets, institutions,
       and developing the regulatory framework for the NBFS to ensure the stability of the
       financial sector, by moving from a rule-based to a risk-based regulatory framework.
       Enhancing markets' efficiency and fostering financial innovation in the Non Bank
       Financial Sector (NBFS).
       Expanding the reach of the NBFS to remote and under developed areas in Egypt.
       Enhancing regional expansion by Non Bank Financial Institutions.
       Developing the financial culture and raising public awareness of investment and
       financial services, and associated risks and returns associated with their investments.

E. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other partners
   during     the preparation and implementation of the operation,            including the
   effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned:

   The World Bank's performance during the operation was overall highly satisfactory. The
   operation witnessed close coordination and communication with the relevant bank officials,
   and special acknowledgment should be given to the efforts of the field team, especially the
   Task Team Leader during the preparation and supervision.

   The team showed a remarkable deal of diligence and technical support for the responsible
   authorities throughout the operation. The presence of the TTL on the ground during
   supervision provided effective communication and ensured all required and expected
   intermediate outcomes where duly met.

   The World Bank also conducted close coordination efforts with other donors who are actively
   involved in the financial sector reform including the EU, USAID and African Development
   Bank (AfDB).


                                                24
F. Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project:

   As a result of the successful cooperation with the World Bank in the preparation for and
   disbursement of DPL II, the Egyptian Government is keen on further cooperation with the
   World Bank on the second phase reforms of its Financial Sector Reform Program, through a
   third DPL.




                                           25
            Annex 3: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Donors that are actively involved in the financial sector work, include, USAID, EC, and AfDB
have commended the World Bank's financial sector work, and especially the DPL. Various donors
and international institutions have been providing support for the implementation of the
government's Financial Sector Reform Program through the provision of technical assistance, and
analytical work on reforming and restructuring the financial sector. This required effective
coordination, which the Bank took leadership in. A Financial Sector Donors Subgroup, chaired by
the World Bank was formed in mid 2005, to coordinate efforts related to both technical and
financial support provided to the government and to ensure that borrowed funds are used in the
most effective manner. This cooperation led to mutual design and agreement of conditionality
issues that all donors agreed were essential for financial sector reform. In addition, donors were
able to do a much better job of leveraging resources, both loan and technical assistance, when
coordination is effective.

Donors have benefited from the analytical work that was undertaken by the Bank, especially the
2002 joint IFM-World Bank FSAP. Most of the recommendations put forward by the FSAP were
used in drafting the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the government of Egypt and
USAID. All major elements required for financial sector reform as identified by the FSAP were
used in drafted the conditionality that appears in the MOU. Moreover, technical assistance to
support the financial sector reforms was jointly discussed, designed and deployed, with USAID
and EC, with an understanding that the different donors would support various activities, but
attempting to promote complimentarily. For example, the audit TOR for public sector banks was
drafted by the WB where USAID is providing funding for audits. The European Central Bank and
the EC funded projects provided technical assistance to CBE banking supervision, restructuring
assistance for NBE and Bank Misr, whereas USAID provided technical assistance to the CBE in
areas such as information technology, human resources, foreign exchange unit, monetary policy
unit, and the banking reform unit, as well as to the insurance sector.

From the USAID perspective, the strong relationship with the Bank was unique in that it was
mutually reinforcing. USAID acknowledges such close cooperation that helped them in designing
assistance strategies to effectively respond to the needs of Egypt. They appreciated the sharing of
information and the close contact to advance in addressing major constraints. This close working
relationship helped to ensure that activities of respective organizations did not conflict with each
other. Both parties had a common objective to support the government of Egypt's efforts to
implement financial sector reforms. It is much easier for USAID to provide long-term technical
assistance rather than long-term finance, whereas the World Bank is well positioned to address
financing issues, a key component to help the authorities implement their financial sector reforms.
Supporting common objectives helped the government in advancing with its reform agenda. This
was really a three-win situation for the World Bank, USAID and most importantly for the
government of Egypt.

AfDB provided parallel financing to the Financial Sector Reform Program, of an equivalent
amount of US$500 million. The AfDB appreciates the Bank's efforts in processing such a large
operation. Their project document was largely based on the Bank's analytical work and the
preparation work that was done. The World Bank and AfDB have conducted joint appraisal
mission, in which the Bank took a leading role in the policy dialogue, and in the identification of
triggers on banking and insurance sector. Overall, donors have commended the Bank's efforts in
moving forward with the implementation of the Financial Sector Reform Program, and in ensuring
synergy in the policy measures supported by the various donors, and effective use of resources.




                                                26
                                                                                 Annex 4: Operational Policy Matrix


                                                                   Egypt--Second Financial Sector Development Policy Loan


                       PRIOR POLICY ACTIONS                                   EXPECTED INTERMEDIATE PROGRAM OUTCOMES                                 LONG-RUN INDICATIVE POLICY MEASURES
                FOR BOARD APPROVAL ON MAY 2008                                     BY DECEMBER 2009 CLOSING DATE
               PHASE II OF GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

                                                  I. Reduction of Public Ownership and Control of Banks and Consolidation of the Banking Sector

   Preparation for divestiture, including retention of a sales          Completion of initial public offering (IPO) transaction for         Bank of Alexandria operating fully under private ownership
   advisor, of the remaining 20% of state-owned shares in               Bank of Alexandria
   Bank of Alexandria (20% of which 5 percent will go to
   employees)

   Divestiture of 94 percent of the portfolio of state-owned            Former joint venture banks are majority privately owned             Former joint venture banks operating at a level playing field
   banks holdings in joint venture banks                                                                                                    with other private banks


   Consolidation of the banking system from 57 banks as of June         Further consolidation of the banking system                         A sound and sustainable banking system
   2004 to 40 banks, through mergers and acquisitions



   Reduction of share of state-owned banks to less than 50              A competitive banking system led by strong private sector           A competitive banking system led by strong private sector
   percent of total banking sector assets                               banks                                                               banks



* The indicative policy measures for the proposed FS DPL II are indicated in Phase II of the `Financial Sector Reform Program', as stated in the Government's Development Policy Letter, and outlined in
the Operational Policy Matrix of FS DPL I.




                                                                                                       28
                  PRIOR POLICY ACTIONS                              EXPECTED INTERMEDIATE PROGRAM OUTCOMES                           LONG-RUN INDICATIVE POLICY MEASURES
            FOR BOARD APPROVAL ON MAY 2008                               BY DECEMBER 2009 CLOSING DATE
          PHASE II OF GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
                            II. Financial and Operational Restructuring of Remaining Commercial State-Owned Banks and Specialized State-owned Banks
Substantial progress in implementing program of financial      Full settlement of the NPLs of SOEs held by state-owned      State-owned commercial banks in full regulatory compliance
restructuring and recapitalization of state-owned commercial   commercial banks                                             and competing with private banks on a level playing basis
banks, including:
       Settlement of at least 60 percent of non-               State-owned commercial banks' financial statements fully     State-owned commercial banks' financial statements fully
          performing loans (NPLs) of state-owned               reflect bank net asset values and economic position          reflect bank net asset values and economic position in line
          enterprises (SOEs) held by state-owned                                                                            with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
          commercial banks as of June 2004
       Progress in provisioning the NPLs of state-owned
          commercial banks
Substantial implementation of program of institutional         National Bank of Egypt and Bank Misr show improvement in:    Satisfactory completion of restructuring of National Bank of
and operational restructuring of the National Bank of          (i) human resources; (ii) risk management, and (iii) IT      Egypt and Bank Misr so that they operate on commercially
Egypt and Bank Misr with participation of reputable            systems.                                                     sound basis within adequate governance, incentive and risk
international firms, and as per agreed framework                                                                            management structures
Completion of financial and operational reviews by KPMG        Completion of independent and comprehensive financial due    Specialized state-owned banks operating as viable commercial
and Rabo Bank in the Principal Bank for Development and        diligence of the three state-owned specialized banks         banks
Agricultural Credit
Completion of TORs of independent and comprehensive            Adoption of a program of institutional and operational
financial due diligence of the three state-owned specialized   restructuring for the state-owned specialized banks
banks (Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit, Arab Land Bank, and Industrial Development Bank)

                                                   III. Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework of the Banking Sector
Implementation of capacity building measures in banking        Continued capacity building measures in banking regulation   Egypt has built a credible, risk-based banking supervisory
regulation and supervision is on track as per agreed ECB       and supervision, including new internal guidelines and       system
program, including new on-site inspection reports and          procedures, new IT scheme and training program
associated training program, preparation for CAMEL
based offsite reporting, and operational Macro Prudential
Unit.
                                                                IV. Restructuring of State-owned Insurance Companies

Completion of the legal merger of three state-owned            Completion of operational restructuring of the merged        The merged company is operating commercially with sound
insurance companies into Misr Insurance Company                insurance company                                            corporate governance
Adoption of a viable business plan for the state-owned         Substantial progress in the implementation of the National   National Insurance Company operating on a sound
National Insurance Company                                     Insurance Company's business plan                            commercial basis


                                                                                            29
                    PRIOR POLICY ACTIONS                                   EXPECTED INTERMEDIATE PROGRAM OUTCOMES                              LONG-RUN INDICATIVE POLICY MEASURES
             FOR BOARD APPROVAL ON MAY 2008                                     BY DECEMBER 2009 CLOSING DATE
           PHASE II OF GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

                                                          V. Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework in Insurance and Pensions

Substantial improvements to the legal and regulatory                 Sufficiently adequate MTPL premium rates to encourage a           A viable privately managed MPTL system is in place
framework for Motor Third Party Liability (MTPL) Insurance,          wider range of non life insurers to enter the business
including:                                                           State owned insurers have established adequate MTPL claims
· Enactment of new MTPL Law and Executive Regulations                provisions
· Enactment of the new interim price list of MTPL
· Update of MTPL claims provisions
Submission to Parliament of critical amendments to                   Effective insurance legislation in place to support the planned   A legal and regulatory regime consistent with international
Insurance Law 10, including:                                         reforms and encourage a more efficient insurance sector           standards
· Increase in minimum capital
· Corporatization of insurance brokers
· Independent funding for Egyptian Supervisory
    Insurance Authority (EISA)
· Separation of life and non-life insurance business
Adoption by EISA of new organizational structure appropriate         Substantial progress in implementing risk-based regulation and    A strong, credible, risk-based insurance supervisory system,
to a risk based supervisory model and implementation                 supervision in the insurance sector.                              conforming to international standards and codes
substantially underway

Completion of draft law overhauling the regulatory framework         Submission to Parliament of Ministers of draft law overhauling    A sound and well-regulated private pension system
for private pension funds, including the introduction of new         the regulatory framework of the private pension system by
voluntary collective pension funds and pension companies             inter alia creating new collective private pension funds and
providing professional training                                      pension companies providing professional training

Completion of plan creating special class of certified pension       At least five selected graduates from Egypt receiving             Sufficient actuarial capacity to serve the private pension
actuaries                                                            international actuarial professional training                     industry

Actuarial assessment of private pension funds under EISA             Continued progress in assessing private pension funds under       Full actuarial assessment of all private pension funds and
guidelines, representing at least 50 percent of assets of existing   EISA guidelines                                                   elimination of all actuarial imbalances
private pension funds




                                                                                                  30
                  PRIOR POLICY ACTIONS                                 EXPECTED INTERMEDIATE PROGRAM OUTCOMES                          LONG-RUN INDICATIVE POLICY MEASURES
            FOR BOARD APPROVAL ON MAY 2008                                  BY DECEMBER 2009 CLOSING DATE
          PHASE II OF GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

                                                                            VI. Improving the Efficiency of Capital Markets

Adoption and implementation of IFRS requirements for             Adoption of International Standards of Auditing (ISA)         Oversight body for accounting/auditing fully operational
listed companies and securities firms, and preparation of        Stronger CMA rules for certification of external auditors     Enhanced transparency and reliability of financial reporting
their 2007 financial statements based on IFRS                                                                                  for listed companies, public companies, and securities firms
Establishment of Auditors Registry at Capital Market Authority
(CMA)
Enactment of amendment to the Executive Regulations of           Successful CMA actions to enforce compliance with new         Sound basis for safe operations by financial intermediaries
the Capital Market Law (CML), enhancing capital                  capital adequacy ratio and risk management requirements for
adequacy requirements and risk management requirements           financial intermediaries
for financial intermediaries regulated by the CMA

Enactment of a decree adding a chapter to the CML Executive      Continued mergers and acquisitions of listed companies,       Transparent and fair treatment of minority public
Regulations on takeovers and public tenders                      including by foreign investors                                shareholders in merger and acquisition transactions

Cabinet approval of draft amendment to CML to simplify four      Enactment of amendment to CML and simplification of four      Increased daily trading of companies listed on CASE's main
listing schedules at the Cairo and Alexandria Stock Exchange     listing schedules at CASE                                     board
(CASE)
Establishment of the regulatory framework for SMEs market        Initial listing of several SMEs on NILEX                      Improved SME access to capital
"NILEX", governing listing, disclosure, nominated advisors
and trading
Improved regulation of investment funds, through                 Adequate CMA enforcement of new regulation on investment      Increase in the number and variety of investment funds and in
enactment of CML amendment and issuance of executive             funds                                                         fund assets/GDP, indicating greater choice and
regulations to:                                                                                                                diversification, at reduced costs, for retail investors
· Clarify investment funds' legal form
· Improve net asset value computation
· Improve funds' disclosure
· Reduce minimum paid-up capital for fund general
     partner to two percent of assets under management
Establishment of CASE regulations for exchange-traded funds
(ETFs)                                                           At least one ETF trading on CASE
Establishment of supervisory department at CMA with staff        Improved supervision and market surveillance by CMA           CMA is operating a credible risk based supervision system
hired and trained                                                                                                              conforming to IOSCO principles.
New chapter to Executive Regulations of the CML issued
regarding price manipulation and insider trading


                                                                                              31
                   Prior Policy Actions                                   Expected Intermediate Program Outcomes                          Long-run Indicative Policy Measures
             for Board Approval on May 2008                                   by DECEMBER 2009 Closing Date
            Phase II of Government's Program


                                                             VII. Strengthening the Financial Sector Institutional Infrastructure

Legal establishment of a private credit bureau                    Development of a reliable and comprehensive database at the   Enhancing access to finance through improved availability of
                                                                  private credit bureau                                         creditworthiness information

Signing of contract with private vendors for the                  Operationalizing the RTGS system, complying with              Fully operational RTGS system
implementation of a real time gross settlement (RTGS)             international standards and best practices
payments system complying with international standards
and best practices
Developing the regulations of the Automatic Clearing House        Reduce processing time of government checks and collections
(ACH) to reduce total processing time of checks                   from 25 to 2-3 days


Submitting draft Specialized Economic Courts Law to the           Issuance of Specialized Economic Courts Law                   Specialized Economic Courts operational
Parliament

Development of a strategy for microlending through non-bank       Creation of microlending NBFIs and promulgation of related    Vibrant microlending NBFI sector providing microcredit to
financial institutions (NBFIs) to increase access to finance      regulations and supervisory framework                         poor and vulnerable population




                                                                                              32
                Annex 5: Achievements of Project Development Objectives

 Expected Intermediate Program Outcomes                         Status of Implementation
     by December 2009 Closing Date
   I. Reduction of Public Ownership and Control of Banks and Consolidation of the Banking
                                          Sector
Completion of initial public offering (IPO)          The collapse of equity markets worldwide has
transaction for Bank of Alexandria                   made it undesirable to complete the privatization
                                                     of Bank of Alexandria with an IPO. However, the
                                                     bank remains fully under private management and
                                                     the IFC has taken a 9.9% share of its capital.
Former joint venture banks are majority privately    Completed for practical purposes
owned
Further consolidation of the banking system         On track
                                                    Largely completed in commercial banks; the
                                                    consolidation has helped the system become more
                                                    resilient to the international financial crisis.
                                                    Consolidation has also occurred in state-owned
                                                    specialized banks.
A competitive banking system led by strong           On track
private sector banks                                 System has grown and share of private banks has
                                                     increased as a result of competition and
                                                     restructuring of state-owned commercial banks.
                                                     The banking system has been largely resilient to
                                                     the effects of the international financial crisis.
   II. Financial and Operational Restructuring of Remaining Commercial State-Owned Banks
                                  and Specialized State-owned Banks
Full settlement of the NPLs of SOEs held by         On track
state-owned commercial banks                        The government has reduced the SOE's
                                                    outstanding loans and the corresponding NPLs due
                                                    to the state-owned commercial banks by 60%.
                                                    It is committed to settle the remaining loans and
                                                    the corresponding NPLs. An agreement was
                                                    signed between the Holding companies and NBE
                                                    and BM in September 2009 to settle the remaining
                                                    outstanding NPLs within a year in kind (land). To
                                                    date, around LE 3 million were settled.
State-owned commercial banks' financial             On track
statements fully reflect bank net asset values and The banks' financial statements are now available
economic position                                   more promptly and the statements reflect much
                                                    more accurately the economic position and the net
                                                    asset values as a result of the pay-down of SOEs'
                                                    borrowings, the settlement and collection of
                                                    private NPLs and substantial increases in
                                                    provisioning and subordinated loans from the
                                                    shareholder.
National Bank of Egypt and Bank Misr show           On track
improvement in: (i) human resources; (ii) risk      The new management team at NBE has increased
management, and (iii) IT systems.                   the pace of reforms in these 3 areas substantially.
                                                    In particular, risk management has improved
                                                    dramatically, major changes have been made in
                                                    training and in the remuneration of staff, and IT
                                                    connectivity has already improved and a contract
                                                    for a new core banking system has been signed.
                                                    Bank Misr has been improving itself for some
                                                    time in these areas. In particular, it continues its
                                                    33
 Expected Intermediate Program Outcomes                         Status of Implementation
     by December 2009 Closing Date
                                                    training program, has appointed a risk
                                                    management team and given it a major say in
                                                    lending decisions, and has incorporated a well-
                                                    functioning IT system.
Completion of independent and comprehensive         On track
financial due diligence of the three state-owned    - PBDAC, the largest state-owned specialized
specialized banks                                     bank has contracted KPMG to conduct an
                                                      independent, comprehensive, due-diligence
                                                      report.
                                                    - Egyptian Arab Land Bank has contracted
                                                      Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu to conduct an
                                                      independent, comprehensive, due-diligence
                                                      report
Adoption of a program of institutional and          On track
operational restructuring for the state-owned       New law submitted to change the organizational
specialized banks                                   structure of PBDAC; the non-banking activities of
                                                    PBDAC have been almost completely eliminated;
                                                    and it is implementing an operational restructuring
                                                    program designed in conjunction with Rabo Bank.

                                                The Industrial Bank has absorbed the Workers
                                                bank and is undertaking a corresponding
                                                institutional and operational restructuring.
     III. Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework of the Banking Sector
Continued capacity building measures in        On track
banking regulation and supervision, including  Phase II of the Banking Supervision reform was
new internal guidelines and procedures, new IT successfully finalized.
scheme and training program                    First protocol with ECB successfully finalized in
                                               Dec 2007.

                      IV. Restructuring of State-owned Insurance Companies
Completion of operational restructuring of the    - All legal requirements have been fulfilled.
merged insurance company                          - Operational restructuring has been completed.
                                                  - Regions and branches have been fully merged.
                                                  - All departments (technical and supporting) have
                                                    been fully merged and working according to
                                                    unified roles and guidelines.
                                                  - The new entity has been assigned for the
                                                    highest rating between the merged entities (A-)
                                                    by AM Best rating agency. New chairman has
                                                    been appointed.
Substantial progress in the implementation of the On track ­ National will become a specialist life
National Insurance Company's business plan        and benefits insurer.
                                                  - Portfolio of classified group life business
                                                    related to the state has been transferred to
                                                    National Insurance Company (NICE) with
                                                    adequate reserves approved by the regulator.
                                                  - The deficit of life business has been halved.
                                                  - The MTPL reserves have been strengthened
                                                    with L.E. 200mn and to be adequately reserved
                                                    in the current FY 2008/09.
                                                  - A New Chairman has been appointed and a
                                                    strategic business plan is being implemented in
                                                    place
                                                  - The company has been assigned for B++ very
                                                    good from AM Best for Public Information and
                                                   34
 Expected Intermediate Program Outcomes                            Status of Implementation
     by December 2009 Closing Date
                                                   to be confirmed after completion of the rating
                                                   process.
    V. Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework in Insurance and Pensions
Sufficiently adequate MTPL premium rates to     - New law No. 72/2007 and its executive
encourage a wider range of non life insurers to    regulation enacted in order to cap the exposure
enter the business                                 of insurance companies to LE 40,000 for death
State owned insurers have established adequate     or total disablement and 10,000 for property,
MTPL claims provisions                             and MTPL premiums will be raised initially to
                                                   provide that the business is no longer loss-
                                                   making and eventually to full market-based
                                                   pricing.
                                                The current price list resulted in the loss ratio
                                                reducing from 500% to 200% in 07/08.
                                                A new price list is being prepared to increase the
                                                prices with 50% and to be implemented by July.
                                                09; these prices are expected to bring down the
                                                loss ratio to around 125%.
                                                       MTPL Reserves of Misr Insurance Co. are
                                                       adequate after strengthening by L.E. 850mn in
                                                       June 2008,
                                                       National has strengthened its reserves for MTPL
                                                       by L.E. 200mn to be fully reserved in the current
                                                       FY 08/09

Effective insurance legislation in place to support    Key amendments to Law 10 have been passed and
the planned reforms and encourage a more               will be implemented by the end of the 2008/ 2009
efficient insurance sector                             FY. A full review of Law 10 to support the
                                                       introduction of RBS is needed and will form part
                                                       of the next round of FS reforms.
Substantial progress in implementing risk-based        EISA has restructured to support a RBS approach,
regulation and supervision in the insurance            but further detailed TA is needed at the
sector.                                                implementation level ­ particularly on site
                                                       supervision.
Submission to Parliament of Ministers of draft         The draft law was submitted to State of Council to
law overhauling the regulatory framework of the        be reviewed and it's expected to be submitted to
private pension system by inter alia creating new      Cabinet of Ministers before June 2009.
collective private pension funds and pension
companies providing professional training
At least five selected graduates from Egypt            An actuarial development program is in place, the
receiving international actuarial professional         number of certified actuaries ultimately produced
training                                               is largely dependent on the number of suitable
                                                       graduates emerging from the Cairo University and
                                                       American University undergraduate programs.
Continued progress in assessing private pension        On track
funds under EISA guidelines                            EISA produced an actuarial assessment of the
                                                       largest 25 private pension fund in 2008,
                                                       representing 52% of the funds under management.
                                                       An update is in progress. For this purpose,
                                                       effective January 2009 all plans are required to
                                                       produce actuarial valuations following a standard
                                                       format provided by EISA after discussion with the
                                                       registered actuaries.
                                                       Under the current regulations, actuarial assessment
                                                       report are required every five years, but the new
                                                       law proposed by EISA will reduce the maximum
                                                       period to report to three years. Were the financial

                                                      35
 Expected Intermediate Program Outcomes                          Status of Implementation
     by December 2009 Closing Date
                                                     statements are required every year.
                            VI. Improving the Efficiency of Capital Markets
Adoption of International Standards of Auditing     Egyptian translation of ISA issued June 2008 and
(ISA)                                               in effect for 2009. Regarding external auditors,
Stronger CMA rules for certification of external    Audit Oversight Board (AOB) established July
auditors                                            2008; first meeting December 2008; working now
                                                    to begin auditor inspections by end-2009.
                                                    External auditors already-listed at CMA will have
                                                    2 years to achieve compliance with AOB
                                                    standards; newly-listed auditors must comply
                                                    immediately.
Successful CMA actions to enforce compliance        CMA conducts weekly monitoring of capital
with new capital adequacy ratio and risk            adequacy and has conducted 140 on-site
management requirements for financial               inspections of financial intermediaries, resulting in
intermediaries                                      14 orders for corrective action and 2 referrals to
                                                    public prosecutor.
Continued mergers and acquisitions of listed        Same number of M&A transactions (28) in 2008
companies, including by foreign investors           as in 2007. Slight decrease in total value, from LE
                                                    142 billion to LE 105 billion, a likely reflection of
                                                    global financial crisis. Acquirers included
                                                    investors from Western Europe and GCC
                                                    economies.
Enactment of amendment to CML and                   CML amended June 2008. CASE (EGX) listing
simplification of four listing schedules at CASE    schedules consolidated in fall 2008 into two
                                                    schedules ­ one for domestic companies, one for
                                                    foreign.
Initial listing of several SMEs on NILEX            3 SMEs listed, but IPOs delayed due to Global
                                                    financial crisis. Additional SMEs have applied for
                                                    NILEX listing.
Adequate CMA enforcement of new regulation          Regular CMA review of investment fund
on investment funds                                 prospectuses and major corporate actions. Some
                                                    CMA inspections of investment funds and
At least one ETF trading on CASE                    required corrective actions.

                                                 Expected by end-2009. A securities firm has been
                                                 competitively selected to issue/manage EGX30
                                                 ETF and has designated 1 market maker and 1
                                                 authorized participant market maker. IT systems
                                                 implemented between designated issuer and
                                                 MCDR. Activation awaiting final approvals from
                                                 CMA and MCDR.
Improved supervision and market surveillance by In addition to regular monitoring and on-site
CMA                                              inspections of financial intermediaries and
                                                 auditors, CMA is moving to acquire/upgrade
                                                 computerized surveillance systems.
                VII. Strengthening the Financial Sector Institutional Infrastructure
Development of a reliable and comprehensive      On Track
database at the private credit bureau            In nine months since its commercial launch,
                                                 iScore has issued over one million credit reports,
                                                 signed up 55 subscribers.
                                                 On the depth of Credit Information Index, Egypt's
                                                 score increased from 2 of 6 in 2007, to 5 of 6 in
                                                 2009, and 6 of 6 in 2010
Operationalizing the RTGS system, complying      On track
with international standards and best practices  The RTGS became fully operational on March 15,
                                                 2009.
Reduce processing time of government checks      Acheived
                                                  36
  Expected Intermediate Program Outcomes                 Status of Implementation
        by December 2009 Closing Date
and collections from 25 to 2-3 days
Issuance of Specialized Economic Courts Law    On Track
                                               In May 2008, the Specialized Economic Courts
                                               Law no. 120 of 2008 has been enacted.
Creation of micro lending NBFIs and            On Track
promulgation of related regulations and        In March 2009, Single NBFI Regulator Law no.
supervisory framework                          10 of 2009 has been enacted.




                                              37
                       Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


Program Document, dated April 24, 2008 (Report No. 43362-EG)
Aide-Memoires, Implementation Status Results and Reports
Supplemental Letter ref. Actions under the Program
CBE Annual Report FY2007-2008 and Monthly Bulletins 2008




                                         39
   Annex 7: Key Operational and Financial Performance Indicators 2004-2009
                                                                                               (Percent)
Banking Sector                                  2004/2005        2005/2006     2006/2007    2007/2008
Balance Sheet Structure
SOEs loan growth                                     5.2             6.0         -15.6       -19.9
Private sector credit-to-GDP                        46.2            46.4          42.3        40.0
Portfolio Quality
NPL / Gross loans                                   26.5            18.2          19.3        14.8
Provisions / NPL                                    51.0            76.2          74.6        92.1
Profitability
Return-on-average assets (ROAA)                      0.5             0.8           0.8         0.8
Return-on-average equity (ROAE)                      7.7            13.2          13.3        13.5
Net interest margin (spread) =                       1.5             1.7           1.7         1.8
(interest income-interest expense)-to-
average earning assets
Efficiency
Cost to income ratio (operating                     43.3            39.6          38.5        37.2
expenses-to-gross operating income)
Net income-to-personal expenses                   182.0            275.3         279.7       344.9
Capital and Capital adequacy
Equity-to-total assets                               6.1             6.3           5.5         6.1

                                                                                               (Percent)
Insurance Sector                   2004/2005        2005/2006      2006/2007    2007/2008   2008/2009
Penetration
Gross premium-to-GDP                     0.8               0.7         0.8         0.9      0.83%
Asset Growth
Real percentage growth in                8.2           10.8          12.3         33.4        -1%
insurance assets
Investments                              16.8          18.7           21.2         29         34.5

policy holders' rights                   12.7          14.3           16.5        20.7        28.1

shareholders' equity                     3.8               4.1        4.6          8.5         7.3

Total Assets                             20.1          22.3           25          33.4        40.5

Direct Premiums                      4289              4591          5687         7449        7439

Direct Paid Claims                   2389              3439          3667         4216        4538

Net Profits                              591           701            896         1085         613

Profitability Efficiency
Combined ratio (net loss ratio       90.4             115.1          94.9         83.5          85.5%
plus net claims ratio)
Capital and capital adequacy
Solvency ratio (equity-to-               449           484            499          527        516%
statutory minimum solvency)
Operating risks (risk retention)




                                                                                               (Percent)
Capital Markets                                 2004/2005        2005/2006     2006/2007    2007/2008
Market Performance


                                                      40
New issues                           51,509          78,543         101,114        126,455

Volume of trading                    72,831          241,443        261,639        547,064

Return (%)                           235%            -1.16%          63%            26%

Value of Trading (EGP mn)            72,831          241,443        261,639        547,064

Volume of Trading (Securities mn)    2,273            5,834          9,423         19,607



Investor Base
Retail investors                        983,006       1,451,589      1,510,495     1,602,300

Retail Foreign Investors                     3,509        4,538          4,909         5,339

Retail Arab Investors                        9,254      15,401         16,510         17,639


Institutional Investors                  16,097         16,859         17,302         17,867

Institutional Foreign Investors              6,184        6,755          7,405         8,283

Institutional Arab Investors                  992         1,353          1,484         1,665

Foreign Investors                            9,693      11,293         12,314         13,622

Number of Total Arab Investors
                                         10,246         16,754         17,994         19,304

Financial Products
Mutual funds                                   24              29             39             44

Public Placement (EGP mn)                     882         2,864              114       1,449

Private Placement (EGP mn)                    907         4,459              412       6,349

Initial public offerings                     1,789        7,324              526       7,798

Secondary public offerings                    568         3,932          5,997         7,900




                                    Annex 8: Map


                                         41
42
43
