RESTRICTED
Report No. P-1113
FILE COPY
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
July 19, 1972






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation of a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for the equivalent
of $7.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Highway Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic mission visited the Sudan in November and December 1971.
Its findings and the draft of its report were discussed with the Government in
April and early May. Meantime in March the Government had announced that a
settlement had been reached with the dissidents in the south of the country
who had been in rebellion almost since the Sudan gained independence in 1956.
This important turn of events is too recent for either the Government or the
Bank to be able to take the measure of its likely impact on the future economic
development of the countryo However, a further mission is planned for later
this year to make an initial assessment. The report on the economic development
and prospects of the Sudan (AE-27 of June 9, 1972) has been distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Its principal findings are summarized below.
Basic data are attached as Annex II.
3.      The Sudan is the largest country in Africa (see Map 3933 attached) but
among the poorest. The estimated per capita GNP is about $110. There is consider-
able unused potential, both of agricultural land and water. The Sudan already has
the best developed irrigation system in Africa outside of Egypt, but much can still
be done in this field. While much of the country is arid desert, there is
considerable scope for expanding rainfed farming. The Sudan is already an import-
ant producer of long and extra-long staple cotton, gum, sesame and groundnuts. Its
potential for livestock products has not yet been exploited. There is some poss-
ibility of mining (chrome, iron ore and copper) but this requires more thorough
investigation.
4.      The public sector dominates all economic activities in the Sudan.   It
embraces all modern irrigated agriculture, most of transport, virtually all power
and water supply and a significant proportion of industry, commerce and finance
following nationalization in May 1970 of a number of banks, insurance companies and
commercial and manufacturing firms. Over 50 percent of GDP is produced within the
public sector. However, there are indications that the Government wants the private
sector to resume an important economic role and the Government has confirmed its
intention to compensate the owners of the properties expropriated. Discussions
with the owners are in progress* It is reported that agreement has been reached
with the Credit Lyonnais of France for its share in the nationalized Nilein Bank.
The Government is keeping us closely informed of the progress of negotiations
towards settlement of the outstanding claims.
5.      The Sudan embarked on a limited amount of development planning in 19h6,
and there were two five-year plans up to 1956. These plans were not based on a
systematic survey of the natural and human resources of the country, and represented
no more than a compilation of public sector projects proposed by various
ministries.    The first effort at comprehensive development planning was



the Ten-Year Plan, FY1962-71. The underlying strategy of the Plan was to
concentrate available capital and skilled manpower on creating
a modern economy rather than in spreading them over the mass of traditional
agriculture and handicrafts.  The phasing of public sector investment was
determined initially by a number of large projects which had already been
started or approved at the commencement of the Plan. In the first four years
of the Plan, some of these major projects - particularly the Roseires Dam, the
Kashm el Girba Dam and the first phase of the associated irrigation and
agricultural works and the Sennar hydro-electric project - were executed. The
implementation of a further phase of the Plan was interrupted by the October
1964 revolution and the Plan itself was virtually abandoned after the
revolution, partly owing to unsettled political conditions and partly for lack
of sufficient well prepared projects such as those mentioned above. However,
she Plan's quantitative targets continued to provide guidelines for the
preparation of annual developmental budgets during the period Ffl966-70.
6.      After the May 1969 revolution, a new Ministry of Planning absorbed the
Economic Planning Section of the former Ministry of Finance and Economy. A new
Plan covering the period July 1971 - June 1975 was launched in July 1970. The
Plan aims at increasing the gross domestic product at an average annual rate of
7.6 percent. The biggest contribution to the increase in GDP is expected to
come from agriculture and livestock, transport and communications. The share
of the directly productive sectors in GDP is projected to increase from 61 to
67 percent. The Plan projects investment at about Ls 427 million of which
Ls 257 million will be in the public sector and the balance private. The public.
investment program is assumed to be financed about equally from foreign and
domestic sources.
7.      The launching of the new Plan came at the end of a five-year period
during which the economy showed little growth. This was primarily due to the
depressed level of investment, both public and private. In addition to low
growth, the economy has been suffering from excessive monetary expansion to
cover Government deficits. While the Government has been successful in
achieving a high rate of growth of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
has absorbed all of it, and development expenditure has remained stagnant.
Prices have risen - reflecting inflationary pressures - and the balance of
payments has deteriorated owing to rapid growth of imports and a progressive
decline in net capital inflows.
8.      Since the present Plan has been in operation for just about two years,
there can be only a limited assessment of its results. During its first year,
however, investment in the public sector amounted to only Ls 27 million, and
there are indications that no significant improvement has taken place in the
second year. Hence if the Plan target for public sector investment is to be
realized, arnnual investment in the last three years of the Plan will have to be
stepped up to an average level of about Ls 70 million - a prospect which appears
highly unlikely. The principal factors causing a slowdown in investment are a
short-age of nasources and inadequacies in the preparation and implementation of
projects.
9.      Tile present state of economic stagnation is by no means beyond improve-
irent if the Government takes appropriate measures to curtail expenditures,
1:11rease revenues and export eamnings, and reactivate the private sector. The



-3-
Sudan has a great potential in the fomr of land on which a variety of crops
can be grown. Out of an estimated potentially cultivable area of about 120
million feddans (125 million acres), no more than 11 million feddans or 9
percent of the total area is cropped in an average year. The Sudan also has
considerable scope for expanding irrigated agriculture, since it is presently
using only about one-half of the Nile waters allocated to it under the 1959
Agreement with the Arab Republic of Egypt. With an estimated population of
only 15.8 million, there is no pressure on the land. Indeed, the Sudan faces
the unusualproblem of being short of farm labor, particularly during the harvest
seasons. Although there is still a shortage of qualified senior officials in a
number of ministries, the Sudan has a body of civil servants whose competence
in some fields, notable irrigation and agriculture, is substantially greater
than that found in many other developing countries.
lOo     The recent economic mission estimated that, during the last three years of
the present Plan (i.e0 July 1973 to June 1975), total investment coulci amount
to about Ls 200-220 million, divided about equally between the public and
private sectors. Including investment during the first two years, total invest-
ment during the Plan should lead to an increase in GDP at the rate of 4 percent
a year. In order for public sector investment to reach Ls 100-120 million
total over the next three years, and on the basis of the Plan's assumption that
about 50 percent of it will be financed by foreign aid, it will be necessary
for the public sector to generate savings amounting to about Ls 50-60 million0
While investment on this scale would represent a significant increase over the
level achieved during the first two years of the Plan, it should be noted that
it is well below the level of almost Ls 40 million a year attained during the
first half of the 1960s. The mission estimates that public sector enterprises
could generate savings of about Ls 20 million and that the Central Government
should provide the balance of about Ls 30-40 million or an annual average of
Ls 10-13 million. This is well within the Sudan's capacity, but will require
that there be a ceiling on recurrent expenditure in each of the remaining three
years. The Government is aware of the gravity of the present financial
situation. Since financial and administrative constraints preclude the
possibility of a sharp rise in public sector investment in the short run, the
developmental role of the private sector will be critical in realizing even the
relatively lower investment projected by the mission.
11.     While existing commitments of external aid do not appear to be out of
line with the Sudan's needs, most of this aid has yet to be allocated to specific
projects and hence it is likely that disbursements, especially disbursement of aid
from the Eastern Bloc , will not take place soon. In mid-1972 official aid
commitments from all sources amounted to Ls 108 million equivalent: Eastern
Bloc and Mainland China - Ls 71.0 million; Arab Bilateral - 19.1 million; Bank
and IDA - 9.6 million; Western Bilateral - 8.1 million. It is estimated that
total disbursements from existing commitments may amount to no more than Ls 45
million over the remaining three years of the Plan. During this period, however,
the Sudan will need an inflow of between Ls 50 and 60 million and thus there is a
need for additional commitments for this purpose* To ensure a continuous inflow
in the initial years of the new planning period beginning in July 1975 the Sudan
will need to obtain further new commitments in the next year or two. The rehabilita-
tion and development needs of the South consequent on the recent settlement
ending the long-standing internal conflict in the three southern provinces have
yet to be determined, but clearly they will give rise to the need for significant
added aid commitments.



- h -
12.     In recent years the Sudanese balance of payments has generally been
characterized by a deficit on both the merchandise and services accounts
with the result that the balance on current account has been negative; in
the last ten years the deficit has averaged about Ls 19.0 million annually0
Exports of items other than cotton have been sluggish while imports have
risen owing to the inadequacy of domestic food production and the limited
range of local manufacturing industry. The problem has been aggravated to
some extent by'the closure of the Suez Canal, which raised the import bill
and reduced export earnings. Unsettled political conditions and the failure
to maintain the momentum of development have resulted in a steady decline in
the net inflow of long-term public capital, which actually become negative
in FY1971. These factors led to a rapid depletion of foreign reserves, and
forced the Sudan to contract short-term debt on unfavorable terms.
13.     The Sudan has recently agreed with the International Monetary Fund on
a stand-by arrangement of 40 million SDRs and a stabilization program which
should help in restoring internal and external financial balance as well as
the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate. The possibility of curtailing
military expenditure might improve the position and help to focus effort
on economic development.   Another round of discussions with the
IMF took place in June as preparation of the FY1973 budget got underway.
14.     The Bank mission's assessment of the export potential of the major
commodities as well as the requirements for imports - particularly capital and
intermediate goods - suggests that the cumulative deficit on the current account
over the last three years of the Plan could amount to a little over Ls 80
million. Amortization of debt will amount to about Ls 45 million. In addition,
it is desirable that the reserves be increased to the aquivalent of
at least two months' imports, which will require some Ls 20-25 million. Thus,
the total required capital inflow over the next three years would be about Ls 150
milliono Every effort needs to be made to fill this gap by obtaining official
external financial assistance on suitable terms and by encouraging foreign private
capital inflows.
15.     At the end of 1970, the Sudan's external public debt amounted to
US$379 million equivalent, including an undisbursed amount of US$95 million.
Interest and amortization payments in that year amounted to $30 million and
absorbed 11 percent of export earnings. The debt service ratio on this debt
is likely to reach about 16 percent by 1975 and remain at that level in the
following five years. The Sudan has recently contracted some short-term debt,
of which complete deta'ils have yet to be obtained and compensation to the foreign
oumers of nationalized firms will add further to the Sudan's payment obligations.
Thus, precisely when it is again able to increase its development effort, the
Sudan will already be burdened with a level of debt service even higher than at
present. Although it is making efforts to increase its foreign exchange earmings
by diversifying exports and by import substitution, there are only limited
possibilities. These factors and the overall poverty of the country require that
the Sudan be able to obtain the major proportion of external assistance on
concessionary terms. In view of the continued shortage of domestic resources,
external assistance will be required to cover some of the local costs of projects.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.     Since the Sudan became independent in 1956, the Bank Group has
remained the countryts largest single source of external assistance.
Beginning in 1958, Bank Group lending to the Sudan has totalled $166.75
million and has helped finance the Managil Irrigation Project, the Roseires
Dam on the Blue Nile, two Railway Projects, a Power Project, an Education
Project and a Mechanized Farming Project. From 1968 to 1972 there was no
new lending mainly because of unsettled political and economic conditions
in the country. However, with the recent improvement in political stability
and some evidence that the Goverrment may begin seriously to address itself
to its economic and financial problems, we plan to resume more active
operations. A beginning was made on April 25, 1972 when the Executive
Directors approved a credit of $11.25 million for the Second Mechanized
Farming Project and the presently proposed road project is the next step.
Annex I contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of June 30, 1972 as well as nQtes on the implementation of
on-going projects.
17.     The economic report includes detailed analysis of the major economic
sectors and identifies a number of high priority projects, some of which may
be suitable for Bank Group lending. The recent discussions with the Government
have led to a clearer understanding of what will have to be done for the Sudan
to regain the path to effective development., The settlement of the southern
problem is expected to increase the development requirements of the country
considerably. The rehabilitation needs of the southern Sudan are not yet
fully known. They will be assessed by the staff in the near future, and high
priority projects in the Southern Region will be identified and prepared for
IDA financing. Most of the Sudan's 2,500 Km of gravel roads are located in
the southerm provinces and the proposed Highway Project provides for the
maintenance and betterment of these roads, thus meeting one of the pressing
needs of the Southern Region. For the country as a whole, however, it is
evident that our lending strategy should continue to emphasize agriculture
and transportation, which hold the key to increasing both production and
exports. We have for some time been studying the proposed Rahad Project, a
major irrigation scheme designed to bring about 300,000 feddans of additional
area under irrigated cultivation using water from the Roseires Reservoir,
financed by an earlier loan and credit. After re-appraisal, occasioned by
changes in Government and modifications of the technical details,an agreed
version of this project is likely to be ready for financing in FY73. As the
foreign exchange cost of the project will be $55-60 million, and we L  above
the availability of IDA funds for the purpose, the possibilities of obtaining
additional financing from others are being explored.
18.     The Sudan relies essentially on Sudan Railways for long-distance
transportation.  The railways' existingtrack capacity is potentially adequate,
but inefficient operations, combined in particular with a critical shortage of
effective motive power and a poor commmunications network, have created a
situation in which the railway is failing to meet all demands, especially
on the busiest route to Port Sudan. New investments, principally for
locomotives, rolling stock, and telecommunications, would be needed to enable
the railway to meet the demands of the expanding economy, but it is essential



-6-
that this should be accompanied by significant improvements in operating
efficiency. Accordingly, it is proposed that a Third Railway Project,
which may be appraised towards the end of this year, should contain a
substantial element of technical assistance.
19.     The concentration on railway development is understandable in view
of the long distances between the main producing and consuming areas and
the sea, but it has resulted in road development and maintenance being
neglected. A system of reliable, all-weather roads to complement
the railway is essential. The highway project now proposed wilI constitute
the first step towards meeting this essential need.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
General
20.     A reliable transport system capable of linking areas of potential
production and consumption is urgently needed to promote economic development
in the Sudan. The railway system consists of about 4,800 Km of single track,
of which the line connecting Port Sudan to Khartoum, serving the heart of
the fertile agricultural region, is the most important and carries nearly
60 percent of freight traffic on 17 percent of the network. Roads serve
primarily as feeders to the railwayo The average distance crops must travel
to the railways by road has been increasing over the last 15 years because
the area cultivated with main crops has grown considerably. River transport
on parts of the Nile system supplements the railways and with the recent
settlement of the southern problem this mode of transport is likely to
become more important in serving the southern areas of the country. Aviation
has at present only a small share of total transport, but is likely to
become increasingly important for rapid passenger service because travel
distances are long and altermative modes of transport are much slower. The
only important seaport is Port Sudan. Increase in traffic because of more
efficient railway operations may strain its capacity and proposals to improve
port facilities are being considered by the Government.
21.     Lack of transport coordination has not been a major problem in the
Sudan so far. However, now that the Goverrnent is emphasizing transport
development and expects to allocate investments totalling $64 million to this
sector in the next three years, further development of transport infrastructure
needs to be carefully planned and coordinated.
Highways
22.     The highway network in the Sudan is in an early stage of development
and road density is low even by African standards. The network totals about



-7-
18,500 Km of roads and tracks of which less than 2 percent are bituminous
paved; 13 percent are gravel surfaced and 85 percent are merely earth tracks.
Nearly all paved roads are in the vicinity of Khartoum. Most gravel roads
are in the southern provinces where lateritic material is available. These
roads, constructed to low standards between 1920 and 1938, have not been
maintained with the result that they badly need betterment followed by
improved maintenance. Earth tracks cut by vehicles moving cross-country
are mostly impassable in the rainy season, June to September.
23.    The Department of Roads (DOR) is in charge of about 5,500 Km of trunk
roads, local governments are responsible for about 13,000 Km of lower class
roads and tracks and the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) maintains about
300 Km of roads built for its development schemes. The Central Government's
responsibility for construction ad maintenance of main roads has been handled by
various ministries in recent years. Soon after independence in 1956 a Roads
Division, largely staffed by foreigners, was established in the Ministry of
Public Works. From 1959 to 1967 technical assistance to the Division and
scholarships to train Sudanese staff were provided under foreign aid programs.
In 1970 the Roads Divis ion was transferred to a newly created Ministry of
Transport and Communications, and in October 1971 the Division was elevated
to a Department in a new Ministry of Transport (MOT). Recently, the Government
made a definite change in its transport investment policy. It accorded greater
importance to road improvements by increasing the road allocation in its
FY1971-75 Development Plan from LSd 2 million to LSd 23 million.
24.    Capital expenditures for highways have been financed mainly from foreign
aid. Over the last ten years foreign agencies provided $36 million equivalent
as grants to construct roads to serve the main areas of agricultural production
and to commence a link between these areas and the seaport.   From July 1971
to June 1972 current expenditure on roads amounted only to $84O,000 which is
insufficient for adequate maintenance and betterment of the road network.
Technical assistance is, therefore, being provided under the proposed project to
determine suitable budget requirements for a program of highway betterment and
maintenance for the five-year period now beginning.
PART IV- - THE PROJECT
25.    A report entitled "Appraisal of a Highway Project - Sudan" (No. PTR-117a
dated July.17, 1972) is being circulated separately. A Credit and Project
Summary is provided in Annex III.
26.    The project was appraised in November 1971 and negotiations were held
in Washington in May 1972. The Borrower's delegation consisted of Messrs.
Mohamed Sanhouri Yousif, Deputy Under Secretary, Ministry of Planning and
Sayed Bedawi Laz, Deputy General Manager, DWRo
27.    The Project will help the Department of Roads (DOR) in the Ministry of
Transport (MOT) to improve its operating efficiency and to carry out an



- 8 -
effective highway betterment and maintenance program. It will also help
DOR and MOT to prepare preinvestment studies for roads suitable for further
lending by external agencies and to improve planning and coordination among
all transport modes.
28.    The project comprises:
(i)  provision of consulting services to the DOR for:
(a) improving its organization and operations, with
emphasis on a highway betterment and maintenance
program;
(b) identifying high priority road construction projects;
and
(c) carrying out feasibility studies of about 500 Em of
high .priority roads identified under (b) above, followed
by detailed engineering of about 350 Km of these roads;
(ii)  purchase of highway maintenance, workshop, and laboratory
equipment; spare parts for both new and existing equipment
in these categories and materials and supplies for highway
betterment workshop construction; and
(iii) technical assistance to the MDT in transport planning and
coordination, and in staff training.
Cnisulting Services to the DOR
29.    Consulting services to the DOR would be provided by a qualified and
experienced consulting firm for about three years in accordance with terms
of reference agreed upon by the Government and the Association. These services
are expected to be carried out in two phases. Under the first phase, of
about one year, a team of up to 14 experts would be employed to prepare a
program of highway b6tterment and maintenance for the period 1973-78,
determine budget requirements for it, prepare specifications, lists and
bidding documents for purchase of spare parts, equipment, and materials and
supplies and advise and assist the DOR staff on emergency rehabilitation of
existing maintenance equipment. The experts would review the organization
=nd operations of the DOR and reccmmend necessary improvements. They would
also determine the training requirements of highway staff at all levels,
prepare appropriate training programs and advise on the facilities and funds
required to carry out the programso Identification of high priority road
construction projects, development of appropriate design standards, preparation
of suitable traffic and road user regulations with recommendations regarding
their enforcement and the establishment of a program of collection of highway
traffic data would also be the responsibility of the consultants.
30.    In the second phase of about two years, the consultants will assist the
Government in implementing recommendations made by the consultants and accept-
aqble to the Government and the Association. The consultants will also help in



carrying out a highway betterment and maintenance program for the period 1973-
74. Most of the Sudan's gravel roads being in the South, the betterment and
maintenance program under this project would constitute an important
contribution to the economic rehabilitation of this war-toxm area.
31.    After the first phase of consulting services is completed, consultants
will be employed for feasibility studies and detailed engineering. Feasibility
studies will be made of about 500 Km of roads identified as high priority under
the first phase. About 350 Km of such roads would be selected for detailed
engineering and preparation of bidding documents. These items of preparatory
work are expected to provide a suitable basis for further lending by external
agencies, including IDA. Because the highway betterment and maintenance program
to be carried out and the spare parts equipment and materials and supplies to
be purchased under the project will be identified in detail by the consultants
only daring project execution, signature by the Government of the contract for
consulting services to the DOR for the initial stages of the project is a
condition of effectiveness.
Equipment, Spare Parts and Materials
32.    Much of the existing DOR maintenance workshop and laboratory equipment
is out of order. With spare parts and tools to be procured under the project,
most of the equipment could be made operational. Rehabilitation of the existing
maintenance equipment should result in an additional useful life averaging at
least four years, The proposed credit also includes an amount for purchase
of additional equipment for highway betterment and maintenance, based on a
tentative list prepared by the Association. Consultants will identify specific
needs for maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment and establish a two to
three year program to purchase them. Much of the road network is in need of
emergency betterment, such as surfacing, gravelling and drainage works, to
bring the roads back to the standard where routine maintenance can be resumed.
Mhe project, therefore, also provides for the purchase of imported materials
like steel and asphalt to carry out the highway betterment program and to
construct workshops as required.
Transport Planning and Coordination
33.    The Government fully appreciates the need for improved planning and
coordination of transport investments and has requested technical assistance
in this field. The project, therefore, provides for two qualified and
experienced transport experts for about two years to advise and assist the MOT
in these fields and in developing an integrated transport system.
Staff Training
34.    The Department of Labour, with the assistance of the International Labor
Organization (ILO) operates a national vocational training school at Wad Medani
which has in-plant training facilities for about 24 mechanics for heavy



- 10 -
earthmoving equipment and provides refresher courses for equipment operators
and mechanics. The facilities can be used to train equipment operators and
mechanics under the proposed project, which includes financing for four
man-years for expert instructors in addition to those provided by ILO, to
train a further 180 equipment operators and 80 mechanics.
Project Cost, Financing and Procurement
35.    The proposed project is estimated to cost $10.9 million including $1.3
million contingencies, with a foreign exchange component of $7 million.
Expenditures under the project (see Annex III) would cover consulting
services ($2.3 million); purchase of spares, equipment and materials ($6.8
million); and technical assistance and training ($0.5 million). Cost
estimates for the consulting services, technical assistance and training are
based on man-months requirsd and on costs of similar services in countries
with the same local conditions as the Sudan. The costs of spare parts,
equipment, materials and supplies are based on preliminary lists of require-
ments drawn up by the DOR and the Association. These lists would be
specifically checked by the consultants in the course of their work.
36.    The proposed credit will finance the estimated foreign exchange
expenditure on the project, which is 65 percent of total costs, while the
Government will meet the local expenditures of $3.9 milliono New equipment
and related spare parts will be procured under international competitive
bidding according to Bank Group guidelines. Spare parts for existing
equipment will have to be obtained from the original manufacturers and will
be purchased from selected local suppliers or agents. Imported materials
and supplies, mainly asphalt and steel, with a total foreign exchange cost
of $480,000 will be purchased over several years in relatively small
quantities as required and will, therefore, be procured through local
commercial channels, using competitive bidding where possible. Under a
preferential tariff arrangement with the Arab Republic of Egypt, the usual
40 percent import duty is reduced to 20 percent for asphalt and 16 percent
for steel, but Egypt has not in practice been a source of supply for these
materials in recent years.
37.    The draft credit agreement provides for retroactive financing from
July 1, 1972, although expenditures on the project in the next few months
will be small. Moreover, no funds would be disbursed for equipment and
materials until the Association had approved the highway betterment and
maintenance programs to be prepared under the first phase of the project.
(See paragraph 29 above)0
Project Execution
38.    The Ministry of Transport and its Department of Roads (DOR), assisted
by consultants under the project, will be responsible for carrying out the
project, The DOR is headed by a General Manager who reports to the Minister
of Transport* Two main sections at headquarters (Khartoum) each headed by
a Deputy General Manager, are responsible for "Construction and Maintenance"
and for "Projects and Administration". The DOR is well staffed at the



professional level, but staff has not been used to capacity due to lack
of funds.  Staff efficiency will be improved with the assistance of the
consultants provided under the project.
39.    The Design Section of the DOR has not been active for several years.
Depending on the source of foreign aid, the design of roads constructed
with foreign aid has differed from case to case. Consequently, the design
standards are varied and inconsistent, and some roads have been over-designed
for expected traffic, while for others the standards are outdated. The
consultants will review design standards and recommend modifications where
necessary.
40.    At present the DOR does not have any maintenance organizations outside
Khartoum, and field operations are hampered by the ad hoc assignement of
professional staff and the shortage of equipment operators and mechanics.
The project consultants will assist the DOR in establishing field organizations,
including workshops, and in the training of suitable staff.
Economic Justification
41.    The benefits from purchases of equipment, spare parts, materials and
supplies will be substantial. However, they are difficult to quantify because
statistics are lacking and the highway betterment and maintenance programs to
be carried out will be defined in detail only after the consultants have
completed their studies. An evaluation has been made of possible returns from
the estimated capital and recurrent costs of an assumed 7-year program of
annual betterment of about 250 Km of roads and tracks and adequate maintenance
on a total of 5,500 Km of the network. Experience in other countries with
similar road conditions indicates that the vehicle operating costs would be
redUced by about 40 percent by betterment and about 20 percent by improved
maintenance. On these estimates, and conservative assumptions as to traffic
volume and growth, expenditure on the road betterment and maintenance program
would yield an economic rate of return of 32 percent and even on pessimistic
assumptions the rate would still be 13 percent. This analysis does not include
benefits beyond the assumed 7-year program due to the reorganization and
strengthening of DOR, nor does it take account of additional traffic induced
by the existence of better roads. In addition, the feasibility studies,
detailed engineering, technical assistance and training elements of the proposed
project will enable the Government to identify high priority investment projects
for the transport sector and prepare future road projects suitable for
financing by external agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of the
Sudan and the Association, the recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development
Credit Agreement conforms substantially to the pattern of the Association's
agreements for transportation development projects.



- 12 -
43.    I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit Agreement would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
44.    I recommend that the Execautive Directors approve the proposed development
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
July 19, 1972



ANNEX I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE SUDAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at June 30, 1972)
Amount      (US$ million)
Credit No. Year Borrower                 Purpose      Bank    IDA. Undisbursed
Loan 202    1958  Sudan                  Railways     39.0
Loan 258    1960  Sudan                  Managil
Irrigation  15.5
Loan 284    1961  Sudan                  Roseires
Irrigation  19.5               0.70
Credit 2    1961  Sudan                  Roseires
Irrigation         13.00       0.70
Loan 440    1965  Sudan                  Railways     31.0               0.10
Loan 522    1968  Central Electricity
and Water Corporation Power        19.0               2.10
Credit 122 1968   Sudan                  Education            8.50       8.30
Loan 556    1968  Sudan                  Mechanized
Farming      5.0               2.10
Credit 311 1972   Sudan                  Mechanized
Farming II         11.25      11.25
Total - Less Cancellations -                 129.0   32.75       25.25
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                          30.0      .10
Total now outstanding                         99.0   32.65
Amount sold:                5.7
of which has been repaid 5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                99.0   32.65
Total undisbursed                              5.1    20.15      25.25
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at June 30, 1972)
(Amount in US$ Million)
Year    Obligor               Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964    Khartoum Spinning &
and     Weaving Co.          Textiles                1.87    0.34       2.21
1972    Total gross commit-
ments
Less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                              1.61    0.07       1.68
Total commitments now held by IFC             0.26    0.27       0.53
Total Undisbursed



ANNEX I
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and three credits to
the Sudan. Disbursements are now in progress for four projects, the present
status of which are as follows:
Loan 440-SU (Railways)
The 1965 loan, mainly for track relaying and rolling stock replace-
ment was almost fully disbursed as of June 30, 1972. Unsettled political
conditions and the closure of the Suez led to project delays and slower than
expected increase in traffic. Although efficiency has deteriorated partly
due to technical defects with new locomotives, the intended rehabilitation
has been achieved and agreement has been reached with the Government on the
need for technical assistance designed to improve efficiency.
Loan 522-SU (Power)
The 1968 loan to the Central Electricity and Water Corporation (CEWC),
a semi-autonomous government agency, was for a power project comprising a
90 MW hydroelectric powerhouse at Roseires, related transmission lines and
substations, as well as management consulting services. The project is now
physically completed, but accounting and administrative inadequacies of the
CEWC continue to require special attention of supervision missions.
Credit 122-SU (Education)
Changes in the original school sites, modifications in the general
educational system and delays in commencing construction of the secondary
schools have resulted in very slow progress. However, the Ministry of
Education is now devoting more attention to the project and the rate of
disbursement is expected to increase rapidly after the award of civil works
contracts within the next few months.
Loan 556-SU (Mechanized Farming)
The original project to establish about 140 farms of 1000 feddans
each (1 feddan = 1.03 acres) was completed in July 1971, one year ahead of
schedule and with substantial savings. Encouraged by this success the area
of the original project was extended by 75,000 feddans and a second
mechanized farming project covering a further 420,000 feddans was approved
for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12, 1972. This credit is not
yet effective.



ANNEX II
Form  No . 81.02                                                                WORLD BANK GROUP
(5_-72)
COUNTRY DA5TA
COUNT.Y, THlE SUDANI
ARYA s   2.5         1c.,                                        POPULATION:    15.9 million (Tsar) 1971                                    DLNSITYs      6.3      per km 2
Rats of   rovth 2.5 % (froml96d     to 1971 )Th1 *d                                    19.6       per km  of esabl* lan,
POPULATroN  CIRRACTLPISTICS,                                                                             HEALTH.
Crude oimrt Rate (per ,CO)                51.7  (year) (1955-1956)                                      -Poplation per phyeician 14,599 (year) (1970)
Crude Death Rote (per 1.ooo)              33.5  (year) (1955-1956)                                       PplUnprhsia                 al25ya)(90
Infant Mlortality (per 1,000 live births) 96    (pear) (1955-1956)Poutinprh                                                 ptabel25yr)            170
iNCOkll DISTRIBUTIO%I                                                                                    DISTRIBUTIOR OF LAND) OlXERSHIP;   (All lansd oswned by the Govermnent.)
I of natclo..l Income, Iowest q.Intlie     -                                                           7. of land ..wned by top IOL  -wers 
higheat q.lntlle    -                                        .                   7 of lend owned by a-sllest 107 .-orner
ACCESS TO POTARLE   AELM  (7. of pop.latton)                                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY:   (7. of popolucton)     10 pnrcm:'t
Ulrban                                                                                                   Urban
Rnrol                                                                                                    Rural
?ITJT9.T!O'1                                                    GNP PERt CAPITA: $1         (year~) 1969             EDUCATIO3:
Calorie int-ake as % of rsquireoents  -(year)                                                                       Adult literacy rote   19 percent.   (pear)i969
Per capita protein intaks (arraces)   -   (yeor)                                                                    Primary school enrolment (%) 14 (year) 1970
GROSS NATIV:AL P?IODnT (year): 1969                                                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GOY      ('.comniant crices):
GIl? at ,rkret prices                I                                                                            1A.-b              10570(UstYer
Gross lmnnte.ten t                     21.14           14..7
Gross National Savings                 210             12.7
Current Account Balans:e                22              1.3
Escports of Goods, NFS                 297             17.9
Imports of Goods, NF5                  312             19.9
9DA'c'TIVITYR IN v,    l969
Value Addnd                               Labor F-rce                                     Value Nddel Par Worker
(US $ Aillion)         S                     M7lIns A___                          (US $1Aot natdonal average
Agriculture mdo. subsistence        517             36                      5.0        72                        103                              55
Industry                            123              a                      0.3         5                        4,10                            219
S,rvices                            597             4.1                      1.3       19                        4.59                             24.5
Total/Averaga                1,237             85                      6.6        96                        187
PUBLIC Fr4NARIRY, IN  (year): P! 1971
All Goverrivente                                           Centra)fll??lF#tl Governmen,t
Le .a4".1%               A of lIP average                        La million                 5 of GO? average
(meount)    % of flop   latL 'nrne pears                          (amount)    %of GOP      last three pear&
Current Recolpts                                       179.7                        -164.4. 
current Ex7enditures (incl. transfers)                 174..6                       -157.8--
C,rrent Surplun/Deficit ()5.1                                                       -6.6--
Capital Expenditures                                    17.2                                                             17.2                             -
Externa.l Asnistance (net)                              -0.1                                                             -0.1
PRICES AND C.RMIT                                                                                        (La million)                                   (is million)
end or pear:                                          Genera13Pri0ce mndcx                     Bank Credlit to Public Sector                   Rank CredIt to Private Sector
Lnd..    (ib-O)       7  h   e(aemunt)                                 one6.
lane  1963                                                                                                                                        6 2.  (munt)          Change
Juna 1969                                           -          -          -74.1                                       19.5                        61.1                   0.1
June  1973 0                                                                                         96.7             30.5                        60.3                  -1.1.
(month) 1970  (Jone)                                            -          -                         110.1.             14.2'                      73.1                  21.2
(montld 1971  (Jane)-                                           -     
BALANICE OF PAVYINTS IN (last three years):; PT 1969 - P  1971                                   ITICH{ANDISE EXPORTS (Averaqe of the lest three years): FY 1969 - P     1971
(millions US  )(SMl-.)                                                                                                        %
Exports of Ooods, NFS                         293.9      316.8      31.1. 7                      (5-6 major coorodities)                                             252           8a
Inparts of Gools., NFlv                       314.9      313.1.      396.9                                                                                            y4           1.2
Resource Gao (deficit    -)21.0                            31.4     -52.2                        all oLher commodities
Interest payments (not)                                -    -           -
Workers' Remittances-                                                   -
Other Factor Payments & interost paymnents    -12.6      -14.6       -12.6
Net Transfers                      (net)         -          -        -0.9
Bslonce on Current Account                    -336       -11.2       -6.                         TO tal                                                              286          100
Direct Foreign Investnent                        -          -           -
Medium' and Lon1-term  Loans (not)             17.2       17.2        -0.3TMLDB                               NDCIMR3,           (er:17
Disbursenents                          (30.)       (37.6)     (31.9)                    LTDA       E?O     RlNS      1      po)17
kmortization                            (13.2)     (20.1.)    (32.1)                                                                                        cs min.)
Official Grants                                  -          -                                    H edium end Long-term Credits, Public                             2o3.9
Other Capital (not)                            -4.6        7.9          .                        Non-Guaranteed Private MO.T
Increase in Official Reserves                  21.0      -13.8        60.6b3.
an-Mc r ouaOe)                                                                Total Outstanding and Disbursed23.
All other itens
Cross Reserves of convertible foreign          1.8.2      39.0        27.6                     DEBT SERtVICE RATIO (year): TX 1971          10.5 percent
Not Reserves                   exchange       -15.2       -1.4.      .62.o
IBRD/IDA LENDING,:O  DStlSllN  31. 1970                        (5 min.)
IBRID              rDA
Outstanding and Disbursed                             91.2              12.3
U),diaborsed                                          13.1.              9.2
-Outstansding ind. Undlsbureed                              104..6             21.5
Official RAte Of Exchange:        US $1.00 * 34..S piasters                  Date:     May 31, 1972
La   1.00 -US $ 2.372
Departesots__Eastemn Africa
Effective Rate of Exchange   La 1.00 -  .5.$2.50 for all transactions except for the proceeds from cotton and gum exports which are
converted at the official eachange rate..






ANNEX III
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDITT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of   the Sudan
Amount:            US$7.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:    The proposed project comprises (i) assistance to the
Department of Roads (DOR) in improving its organization
and operations with emphasis on a highway betterment
and maintenance program, and purchases of related
equipment spares and materials; (ii) feasibility
studies of about 500 ka of road followed by about
350 km detailed engineering; and (iii) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Transport in transport
planning and training of DOR staff.
Estimated Cost:                                                          %
US$            Foreign
(million)         Exchange
Local Foreign   Total    Component
I. Consulting Services:
(a) To the DOR         0.3     0.9     1.2         75
(b) For feasibility
studies and
detailed engi-
neering            0.2     0.9     1.1         80
Sub-total I      0.5     1.8      2.3
II. Purchase of:
(a) Spares for exist-
ing equipnent      0.5     o.5     1.0         50
(b) New Equipment
(including spares) 2.0     3.0     5.0        60
(c) Materials and
Supplies           0.3     0.4     0.8         60
Sub-total II      2.8    3.9     6.8



ANNEX III
Page 2
US$            Foreign
(million)         Exchange
Local Foreign   Total    Component
III. Technical Assistance
and Training           0.1     0.4     0.5         75
IV. Contingency Allow-
ances of Items I-1ll./ 0.5     0.8     1.3
Total I - IV         3.9     7.0    10.9        65
1/ 10% physical and 10% price on I and III and 10% price on II.
Financing Plan:   All foreign exchange cost to be financed by IDA, all local
exchange by Government.
Estimated
Disbursements:                  (US$ million)
1972      1973      1974      1975       1976
0.4       1.8       2.1        2.1       o.6
Procurement
Arrangements:   Procurement of new equipment and related spares (totalling
about US$6.6 million equivalent) would be by international
competitive bidding. Purchase of materials and supplies
($1.0 million equivalent) would be through local commercial
channels, using local competitive bidding where possible.
Consulting services and technical assistance ($3.3 million
equivalent) would be procured on the basis of an evaluation
by Government and Bank of technical proposals from
interested consulting firms.
Consultants:      Consultants would be employed to (i) assist in reorganizing
the DOR, (ii) formulate and assist in implementing a pro-
gram of highway betterment and maintenance, including
assistance in identifying details of required purchases,
(iii) carry out feasibility studies of about 500 km of
road followed by detailed engineering of about 350 km;
and (iv) provide technical assistance to the Ministry of
Transport in transport planning and training for DOR staff.
Rate of Return:   Economic rate of return is estimated at about 30%, and
the most likely benefit/cost ratio is 1:6. Under very
pessimistic assumptions the economic return would be
about 13% and the benefit/cost ratio about 1:1.
Appraisal Report: No. PTR-117a dated July 17, 1972.



ARAB     REPUBLIC                    -
SUDAN                              OF EGYPT                                 J
MAIN TRANSPORTATION                                      -.    .
INFRASTRUCTURE
Rilv er   service            -f  .  i..................
Roilways                  sr.<                                                                f        uo
t    Airport            *                        *N   OR    T HuE     R N                            *   aSudo
____________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D-ngolo
Bituminous surfoced roads
Roads and tracks, all season                .
--- Roods ond trocks, dry season                                                   Alboro
I--      nternatlont l boundaroes                                                   A S    *.
DARFUR Provinces          -. 
....   ....  Provincial boundarimsI|*-----------...... .. 
Notional copitld                         X 
|    Provincial capitol     *.d.,nqn
a    Towns and villages                                               KHARTOM                     Koi
odlrl   rtJ  \ e J=tfs Wod.Modon o
bnpir rndonenicni Ob orrrprwtce  by  ilkFeh r/S1n'o
rhe bsettsistlst ttIi tpd  tl ,   _  fMEARRA-/ t;                  EObd      .   o s  +     *;
bi,i,,idR ntmee tttor tflMirkeptwrehy hf  D'  A,  R  ijF  U  R                                *     ,GotIobor
Zli.ng.i -    I                  F          A  N   =
N   >    (-                      \{ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~~~~K.dgl z  Sj  4 
N
CENTRAL
| ~AFRICAN !* ',Z olkl*-
REPUBLIC
0    100   2q0  3q0   400      RI0A
K,Ionioiers7                                         ..==_
K,1.n,e1_              B e       EL ,     ZA -.       U P P E R     r
WOU R    EL        ZL.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                        I L E0S : 
t > tombuto \ *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..          .   ................ *.......  >--...............
AFRICA                                                                                                 Rdl
MAFRIC ti972                            ZRR A3I8R03-<                        -    /    t           tts7urZA IR
/-- * (f ~~UGANDA 
4 \ ~~~~K E N Y A
MARCH 1972                                                                                                       IB..1RD 3803



