RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-117a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
July 17, 1972
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
CUMrnoy Uit - Sudanese Pond .(LSd)
US$2.87       - LSd 1.00
US$1.00       - LSd 0.35
US$2,872,000  - LSd I million
Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
System of -eights and Measurers: Metric
Metric                       British/S
1 meter (a)                - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kcm)          - 0.62 miles (mi)
-- souare kilometer (b2) - 0.39 saore mile (so iii)
1 metric ton (a ton)       - 2,204.60 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms:
DOR       - Department of Roads
GDR       - German Democratic Republic
IL0       - International Labour Organisation
M7C       - Mechanized Farming Corporation
MOT       - Ministry of Transport
PRC       - People's Republic of China
SR        - Sudan Railways
SSL       - Sudan Shipping Line
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
US        - United States
US A.I.D. - United States Agency for International Development
ADT       - Average Daily Traffic
ER        - Economic Return
vpd       - vehicles per day



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
SU1MMARY .......                   . e:.i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTON .1 .....................................    1
A. Genesis of the Project.                                        1
B.  Peviious Transportation Projects              .I
C. Preparatior. of the Report.                                    1
I. IHE TRANSPORTATIOUN SECTOR.                                        2
A. The Country and Its Economy.                                   2
B. The Modes                           " ...............   ..     2
C.   Planning, Financing, and Coordination.                       4
II. HIGHWAYS..........                     ................,          6
A.  TIhe Network .6................ .....,                        6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic.                       6
C. Administration.                                                7
D.   Planning and Financ4 ng ...............................    8
E.   Engineering.8 ..................                             8
F. Construction.                                                  9
G. Maintenance .................                                  9
H.   Training .. ....................                            10
IV.  THE PROJECT ..            ......................,...10
A.   Description .....................                           10
B,   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component .13
C. Execution ...............                                     15
D.  Financing ................. 16
E. Disbursements ..                                              16
V.   ECONOMIC EvALUATION .........................                     16
A.   Highway Betterment and Maintenance .16
B.   FeasibilIty Studies, Detailed Engineering, and
Tsechnical Assistance and Training .18
-1I.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .18
This report was prepared by Messrs. Snorri Hallgrimsson (Engineer),
Leon H. Miller, jr. (Economist), and Mlrs. Paula Valad (Editor).



CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1. Transport Traffic Data, FY1965/66-FY1970/71
2. Transport Share of Public Investment Budget
3. Comparison of Selected Highway Densities, 1969
4. Highway Network, by Province and Surface Type
5. Vehicle Registrations, 1961-69
6. Vehicle Fuel Consumption Through Retail Outlets, 1960-70
7. Budget Allocations by Local Government for Construction and
Maintenance of Local and Through Roads, FY1969/70
8. Maintenance Equipment Requiring Spare Parts
9. Tentative List of New Equipment Required for Highway Betterment
and Maintenance
10.  Economic Return and Benefit/Cost Ratio Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEX
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHART
Organization of the Ministry of Transport
MAP
Main Transportation Infrastructure



APPRAISAL OF
A RIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
SUMMARY
i.        Sudan's transport system is railway oriented, with roads serving
as feeders to the railways. River transport on parts of the Nile system sup-
plements the railways. Port Sudan is the country's major seaport. Although
important for rapid passenger service, aviation carries a relatively small
part of total traffic. The highway network is in an early stage of develop-
ment and road density is low in relation to other African countries. The
network totals about 18,500 km of roads and tracks, composed of less than 2%
bituminous-paved roads, 13% gravel-surfaced roads, and 85% earth tracks.
Most paved roads are near the capital, Khartoum, and most gravel roads are in
the three southern provinces.
ii.       Roads have not been properly maintained, resulting in high road
transport costs. Also road construction and improvement have not kept pace
with agricultural expansion. Consequently, the present condition of the road
network is a bottleneck for economic development of the country.
iii.      The Government recently made a definite change in its transport
investment policy. It accorded greater importance to road improvements by
increasing the road allocation in its FY 1971-75 Development Plan from LSd 2
million to LSd 23 million; further increases in this amount are expected.
The Association supports the present Government policy of developing and im-
proving the highway network, and proposes to assist the Government in its en-
deavor through this Highway Project. The project will help the Department
of Roads (DOR) in the Ministry of Transport (MOT) to improve its operating
efficiency and to carry otut an effective highway betterment and maintenance
program. It also will help the DOR to prepare preinvestment studies for
roads suitable for further lending by external agencies and to improve trans-
port planning and coordination.
iv.       The project includes consulting services to the DOR for:  improv-
ing its organization and operations (with emphasis on highway betterment and
maintenance); identifying high priority road construction projects; and car-
rying out feasibility studies of about 500 km of suchi roads, followed by
detailed engineering and/or revisions to existing detailed engineering of
about 350 km of the highest priority roads. It also provides for purchases
of: spare parts for existing highway maintenance, workshop, and laboratory
equipment; new equipment in these categories with related spare parts; and
materials and supplies for highway betterment works and workshop construc-
tion. Finally, it covers technical assistance to the MOT in transport plan-
ning and coordination as well as staff training. The spare parts, equipment,
and materials and supplies will be identified in detail by consultants only
during project execution. The MOT and its DOR, assisted by consultants under
the project, will be responsible for execution.



- ii -
v.        Because virtually no local contracting industry exists in the
Sudan, all maintenance and betterment works will be carried out by force
account according to programs drawn up by the consultants under the proj-
ect. The Association will closely supervise and review the work of the
consultants.
vi.       The project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$10.9
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$7 million or 65%. Cost es-
timates for the consulting services, technical assistance, and training are
based on man-months required and on costs of these services in coun-
tries with local conditions similar to those of the Sudan. The costs of
spare parts, equipment, and materials and supplies are based on preliminary
lists of requirements drawn up by the DOR and the Association. Specific
lists of items to be purchased will be prepared by the consultants under
the project, probably by about mid-1973. The spare parts for the existing
equipment are tied to equipment manufacturers and will be purchased after
quotations are obtained from selected local suppliers or agents. The new
equipment (including spare parts) will be subject to international compe-
titive bidding. All materials and supplies will be imported and purchased
through local commercial channels, using competitive bidding where possible.
vii.      The proposed project will be financed by an IDA credit of US$7 mil-
lion, covering the foreign exchange costs. The Government will meet the local
costs. No funds will be disbursed for purchases of the equipment and mate-
rials and supplies until the Association is satisfied with the highway bet-
terment and maintenance program.
viii.     Benefits will be substantial from carrying out the improved high-
way betterment and maintenance program and from purchasing spare parts,
equipment, and materials and supplies. But they are difficult to quantify
precisely because statistics are lacking and the highway betterment and
maintenance program to be carried out will be defined in detail only during
project execution. Experience in countries with similar road conditions
indicates vehicle operating costs will be reduced about 40% from betterment
and about 20% from improved maintenance. An illustrative analysis shows
that, based on a tentative betterment and maintenance program to be carried
out over 7 years, the project will yield an Economic Return of about 32%
and a Benefit/Cost Ratio of about 1.6. Benefits also will be substantial
from institution-building and preinvestment studies, which have not been
quantified.
ix.       A condition of credit effectiveness is signature by the Government
of the contract for consulting services to the DOR to improve its organizao-
tion and operations and identify high priority road construction projects.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
I. INTRODUCTION
A.   Genesis of the Project
1.01      In June 1970, the Government of the Democratic Republic of Sudan
(the Sudan) asked the Association to review the transport sector and to re-
commend appropriate measures for its development. Missions from the Asso-
ciation visited the country in 1971,and recommended that the highway sector
should be given highest priority. Based on this recommendation, the Gov-
ernment asked the Association to: help finance a 4-year program to improve
the organization and operations of the Department of Roads (DOR) in the Min-
istry of Transport (MOT), particularly in highway maintenance; undertake
preinvestment studies of high priority road projects; and advise and assist
the MOT in transport planning and coordination. The Highway Project includes
consulting services and technical assistance suitable for financing by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). However, the UNDP is unable
to finance these elements because most funds available for the Sudan have
already been committed and requests for the remainder exceed the balance.
B.   Previous Transportation Projects
1.02      Two Bank loans have been made in the transportation sector for
the Sudan Railways (SR) (Loan 202-SU, July 1958, US$39 million and Loan
440-SU, December 1965, US$31 million). Both projects were principally
directed toward improving motive power, rolling stock, and track. Physical
operations were expanded and operating efficiency improved under the first
project. However, procurement problems and closure of the Suez Canal have
delayed completion of the second. As part of that project, the Government
established the SR as an independent corporation. Technically the SR has
been made a company, but actually no significant organizational improvements
have been made because the reform has not been completely carried out. In
addition, ever-increasing costs and insufficient operating efficiency have
continued to prevent the SR from becoming financially viable. The first
loan has been fully disbursed, but about US$135,000 of the second loan
remains undisbursed.
C.   Preparation of the Report
1.03      This report was written by Messrs. Snorri Hallgrimsson (Engineer)
and Leon H. Miller, Jr. (Economist), who appraised the project in November
1971. It was edited by Mrs. Paula Valad.



II. THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
A.   The Country and Its Economy -/
2.01      The Sudan is the largest country in Africa, covering about 2.5 mil-
lion km2, and is inhabited by about 16 million people. The country is es-
sentially a gigantic plain with a large uninhabited desert in the north and
a tropical jungle and savannas in the south. It is traversed by the Nile
River system, which provides transport links to parts of the country. The
river banks and the area around the capital, Khartoum, are the most densely
populated. Other settlements are scattered through the south, southwest,
and west.
2.02      Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for about 40% of the
Gross Domestic Product and almost all export earnings. Development is con-
centrated within 400 km south and east of Khartoum because the area is fer-
tile and well-irrigated by rivers. The potential for increased agricultural
production is substantial, but more and better roads are needed to realize
this potential.
B.   The Modes 2/
(a) Description
2.03      A large part of agricultural production is for export, but much is
consumed domestically. Transport is important in moving produce to the only
major seaport, Port Sudan, for export and to domestic consumers, as well as
in distributing imports. Railways are the primary mode, but roads are im-
portant as feeders to the railways. The average distance crops must travel
to the railways by road has been increasing over the last 15 years because
the area cultivated with main crops has grown considerably. River transport
on parts of the Nile system supplements the railways. At present, aviation
has only a small share of total transport, but is expected to become in-
creasingly important for rapid passenger service because travel distances
are long and railway service is slow and inefficient.
(b) Highways
2.04      Details about highways are discussed in Chapter III.
1/   Details may be found in IBRD/IDA Report AE-27, The Economic Development
and Prospects of the Sudan, June 9, 1972, Vols. I-IV.
2/   Details may be found in IBRD/IDA Report AE-27, The Economic Development
and Prospects of the Sudan, June 9, 1972, Vol. IV, Annex 3, The Transport
Sector.



-3-
(c) Railways
2.05      The SR was confined to the northeast until the 1960's, when it was
extended with Bank Group assistance west to Nyala (250 km from the Chad bor-
der) and south to Wau. The system consists of about 4,800 km of single track.
The Port Sudan-Khartoum line, serving the heart of the fertile agricultural
region, is the most important and carries nearly 60% of freight traffic on
17% of the network. Traffic details are shown in Table 1.
2.06      Because of its monopoly position, SR operations generally have
been profitable. However, inefficient operations combined in particular
with inadequate telecommunications and a shortage of motive power have led
to a serious shortage of effective capacity. Because of these problems,
public pressure has been mounting to develop alternative transport. The
Development Plan for FY 1971-75 (para. 2.14) includes LSd 14 million for
railways, covering urgent purchases of new freight wagons and passenger
coaches and repairs to existing coaches, but it does not provide for
urgently needed purchases of additional locomotives. New investments,
principally for locomotives, rolling stock, and telecommunications, are
needed but these must be accompanied by significant improvements in operat-
ing efficiency. A proposed third railway project is expected to contain
substantial technical assistance for the railway.
(d) Inland Waterways
2.07      Two river services operate: the 1,400 km long Juba-Malakal-Kosti
service on the White Nile between southern and central Sudan and the 290 km
long Karima-Dongola service on the Nile in northern Sudan. Seventy-five
percent of the traffic is on the White Nile, with freight moving primarily
southward. At Kosti, freight is transferred between river and rail because
of navigational difficulties on the White Nile between Khartoum and Kosti.
Due partly to the directional imbalance of traffic flow, the services have
high operating costs and deficit operations. The role of river transport
is expected to become more important now that the political problems in the
south have been settled. Traffic details are shown in Table 1.
2.08      Until recently, the SR operated the river services as a monopoly.
Now the Government is setting up an independent Inland Waterways Corporation
in the MOT. The MOT has indicated that it wants to encourage private invest-
ment and operation of river transport, but has not yet publicized definite
plans or proposals. Consultants from the Socialist Republic of Romania are
reviewing river transport and are expected to submit their report shortly.
(e) Ports
2.09      The only important seaport, operated by the SR, is Port Sudan.
Fewer ships have been calling at the port since the Suez Canal was closed in
1967, but the average cargo loaded or unloaded per ship calling has increased.
More whole shiploads are being handled, and traffic is at near capacity levels.
Port operations have been profitable and efficient. But inefficient railway
operations in and out of the port area considerably delay freight movements,
resulting in congestion in the sheds and cargo-storage areas. The Government



-4-
is considering a proposal from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Yugoslavia) to construct a new port at Suakin, where additional facilities
could be provided. However, the project might be postponed for a few years
if facilities at Port Sudan were improved and rehabilitated and if technical
assistance for port operations and management were provided.
(f) Shipping
2.10      The Sudan Shipping Line (SSL), originally a joint operation of the
Governments of the Sudan and Yugoslavia, has been wholly-owned by the Sudan
since 1967. Its fleet of 5 ships provides service to North Sea and Atlantic
Ocean ports in Europe, the Yemen Arab Republic, and The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia. Two new ships are scheduled for delivery in 1972, and a service
to the Far East may be inaugurated when they arrive. In 1970, SSL operations
were profitable. This was partly due to advantageous shipping conditions
while the Suez Canal is closed whereby the SSL no longer has to compete
for cargo with ships passing through the Canal.
(g) Aviation
2.11      Sudan Airways Corporation, founded in 1947, is the national carrier.
Its fleet of 8 aircraft provides domestic and international service; revenue
from international service is more than twice that of domestic service. The
airline operates at a substantial loss. It is a commercial operation, but
the Minister of Transport can direct it to provide services regardless of
their profitability. Twenty airports and air strips are served by scheduled
flights, but only Khartoum can handle large aircraft and night landings.
Airports at Port Sudan, Juba, Geneina, and Kassala handle some international
service, and other airports only domestic service.
(h) Pipelines
2.12      The Sudan has no pipelines, but construction is being considered
of a 790 km line parallel to the railway for most of the distance between
Port Sudan and Khartoum. This pipeline would take some of the railway's
oil traffic (17% of total freight) and provide for the doubling in production
of petroleum products at the Port Sudan Refinery expected between 1972 and
1980. The construction cost would be about US$22 million. A feasibility
study of the pipeline was completed recently by consultants. The study does
not include an adequate comparison of the costs and benefits associated with
transporting oil by rail and does not provide a sufficient basis to determine
which alternative would be most beneficial to the country. The Government
has asked the Association to assist in evaluating the impact of a pipeline
on other transport modes, specifically the railway. This assistance will
be provided under the project (paras. 2.16 and 4.09).
C.   Planning, Financing, and Coordination
2.13      In 1966/67 Lockheed Aircraft International, Inc. carried out a
transport study for the Sudan, financed by the United States Agency for



- 5 -
International Development (US A.I.D). Because of the 1967 break in dip-
lomatic relations between the Sudan and the United States (US), the report
was not officially submitted to the Government and is now outdated. There-
fore, the project includes consulting services to identify high priority
road construction projects (para. 4.02).
2.14      The transport share of the public investment budget is shown in
Table 2. In FY 1970-71, the Development Budget was LSd 30 million, of
which about three-quarters was financed by the Treasury and the balance by
external sources. In 1970,the Ministry of Planning formulated the Government's
Development Plan for FY 1971-75 aimed at achieving an average annual growth
rate of 7.6%. An allocation of LSd 215 million was planned for development,
of which LSd 2 million was for roads. The Plan, a listing of uncoordinated
projects proposed by various ministries, was not based on any economic eval-
uation and sector priorities were not considered. By the end of 1970, the
Government realized that the Plan was unrealistic and decided to revise it
annually. The first revision, for FY 1971/72, indicated a definite change
in transport investment policy. Road improvements were accorded greater im-
portance and the road allocation was increased for the 5-year period to
about LSd 23 million.
2.15      In October 1971, the MOT was created to be responsible for roads,
railways, inland waterways, and aviation. As part of the project, two trans-
port experts will be assigned to the MOT to provide technical assistance in
establishing an appropriate organization for transport planning and coordi-
nation and to assist in developing an integrated system (para. 4.09). These
experts will evaluate Government investment projects in all transport modes
and assist in drawing up the MOT's annual development budget proposals (now
projected at LSd 46.8 million between FY 1970/71 and FY 1974/75). They also
will help in identifying transport projects for further lending by external
agencies.
2.16      Most transport services are complementary.  The only duplication is
between Khartoum and Wad Medani, where a road parallels the railway along
186 km. For this reason, lack of transport coordination has not been a
major problem. However, now that the Government is emphasizing transport
development and expects to be allocating large investments to this sector,
further development of transport infrastructure should be properly planned
and coordinated. The need for coordination is first expected to arise in
the Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor, where additional transport demand could be
met by expanded rail service, construction of a pipeline, construction of a
road, or a combination of the three. Part of the tasks of the transport
experts to be engaged under the project (para. 4.09) will be to assist the
Government in developing plans and evaluating projects in this corridor.



III. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The highway network is in an early stage of development and road
density is low compared with other African countries (Table 3). The network
totals about 18,500 km of roads and tracks, of which less than 2% is
bituminous-paved, 13% gravel-surfaced, and 85% earth tracks negotiable only
by 4-wheel drive vehicles (Table 4).
3.02      Except for one 34 km road, all paved roads are near Khartoum.
Most gravel roads are in the three southern provinces, where lateritic
material is available. These roads were constructed to low standards be-
tween 1920 and 1938. They have not been maintained and are in poor condi-
tion, with betterment needed followed by improved maintenance. Tracks are
cut by vehicles moving cross-country and most are impassable in the rainy
season (June-September). After a track is cut, it rapidly becomes impassable.
Then another track is cut, usually next to the old one. In this way, a large
part of the highway network meanders over the plains, often in series of
abandoned tracks several kilometers wide with no defined alignments. The
tracks are virtually not maintained.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.03      Statistics on motor vehicle registrations are available from 1961
to 1969 (Table 5). At the end of 1969, the registered fleet was about 52,400
vehicles, composed of cars (52%), trucks (34%), special service vehicles and
motorcycles (10%), and buses (4%). Between 1961 and 1969 the fleet increased
at an average annual rate of 8%. By comparison, gasoline and diesel oil to-
gether sold through retail outlets between 1963 and 1969 also increased at an
annual average rate of 8% (Table 6). The vehicle fleet seems to be serving
present demand adequately.
3.04      No highway traffic data are being collected and only rough traffic
estimates are available for roads under DOR jurisdiction (para. 3.06). On
the 180 km Khartoum-Wad Medani Road, the most heavily trafficked road, traf-
fic ranges from 2,000 to 3,000 vehicles per day (vpd) and on other roads
from 50 to 500 vpd. The project includes consulting services to advise
and assist the DOR in setting up a program for traffic counts and origin
and destination surveys (para. 4.02). This is necessary for preparing the
programs of highway betterment and improved maintenance to be implemented
under the project as well as for identifying high priority road construc-
tion projects. During credit negotiations, the Government gave an assurance
that, with the assistance of the consultants, it will institute and imple-
ment a regular program for this purpose.
3.05      Highway traffic and usage regulations only limit speeds and axle
loads on bridges and asphalt roads (varying with the design load). They are
rarely enforced. Excessive axle loading is not now a major problem as most
trucks have light to medium capacities, but it could become one when improved



-7-
road conditions make conversion to heavier vehicles attractive to truckers.
The project includes consulting services to prepare suitable traffic and usage
regulations, including vehicle weight and dimension limitations, and to recom-
mend the appropriate organization to enforce them (para. 4.02). During credit
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will take measures (in-
cluding legislation, where necessary) satisfactory to the Association to regu-
late highway traffic and usage (including vehicle weight and dimension limita-
tions) and take adequate action to enforce such measures.
C.   Administration
3.06      Responsibility for highway construction and maintenance is divided
between the DOR (about 5,500 km of trunk roads and the most important through
roads), Local Government (about 13,000 km of lower class roads and tracks),
and the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) (about 300 km of roads built
for its development schemes). The MFC was established under the first Mecha-
nized Farming Project (Loan 556-SU, September 1968, US$5 million), financed
by the Bank.
3.07      Central Government responsibility for construction and maintenance
of main roads has shifted between different ministries. Initially, a Roads
Division, largely staffed by foreigners, was established in the Ministry
of Public Works. In 1959,the US A.I.D. started a program of technical as-
sistance to the Division and also provided scholarships for training abroad
of Sudanese staff. This program was nearly completed in 1967, when the US
and Sudan broke diplomatic relations and all US personnel left. In 1970,
the Roads Division was transferred to a newly created Ministry of Transport
and Communications. Finally, in October 1971 ,the Division was elevated to
a Department in a new Ministry of Transport, illustrating the Government's
new emphasis on roads. A stable DOR is essential to the success of the
project, and during credit negotiations, the Government gave an assurance
that it will make no further changes in the DOR's functions and responsi-
bilities which will materially and adversely affect project execution.
3.08      The DOR is headed by a General Manager, who reports to the Minister
of Transport. Two main sections at headquarters (Khartoum), each headed by a
Deputy General Manager, are responsible for "Construction and Maintenance"
and for "Projects and Administration". These sections are subdivided into
Divisions, each headed by an Assistant General Manager (Chart). No District
Offices exist and staff for highway betterment and maintenance works are
seconded ad hoc, hampering efficient operations. The DOR is well-staffed
at the professional level, but the staff have not been used to capacity
because of insufficient funds. Much of the staff lack sufficient technical
and managerial experience. Consultants under the project will assist the DOR
in improving its organization and operations and will provide on-the-job
training for qualified local staff. They also will advise and assist the
DOR in training of equipment operators and mechanics (para. 4.10).



- 8-
D.   Planning and Financing
3.09      Highway expenditures are financed from general revenues and foreign
aid. The Development Budget of the Ministry of Planning provided about LSd 25
million for capital investments over the last 6 years. The US A.I.D. and the
People's Republic of China (PRC) provided about US$36 million over the last
10 years as grants for construction of the Khartoum-Wad Medani Road and the
Wad Medani-Gedaref Road.
3.10      Current expenditures for items like highway maintenance, staff
salaries, and labor are included in the MOT budget. These expenditures can-
not be identified before 1970 as their records and accounts were not sep-
arated from other activities of the then Ministry of Public Works, but they
were LSd 300,000 in FY 1971/72. The project includes consulting services
to determine budget requirements for a FY 1973-78 program of highway better-
ment and maintenance (para. 4.02).
3.11      The Ministry of Local Government finances part of the construction
and maintenance of through roads by local authorities (Table 7). Central
planning is not carried out and expenditures are not controlled. The Gov-
ernment's annual support of maintenance works by local councils has been
limited to about LSd 130,000 during the last 5 years. The MFC independently
plans, finances, and carries out its road construction and maintenance projects.
3.12      Road-user revenues cannot be identified precisely as data are
lacking. License fees are collected by the Local Government and revenues
from excise duties and import tariffs accrue to the Central Government
Treasury.  In 1970,import tariffs on road vehicles were LSd 2.4 million,
while import tariffs and excise duties on fuel and import tariffs on spare
parts were LSd 4.3 million. No separate data are available to show how much
of the revenues from fuel and spare parts is related to road transport, but
the Association estimates it is at least 50%. On this basis, road user reve-
nues for 1970 are estimated at over LSd 4.5 million.
E.   Engineering
3.13      The Design Section of the DOR has not been active for several
years, but the laboratory has made tests for recently-constructed roads
(para. 3.15). The project contains a small element for laboratory equip-
ment purchases to replace worn out items (para. 4.07). Foreign organiza-
tions have prepared designs for new roads. US consultants have designed
the 180 km Khartoum-Wad Medani Road for axle loads of 18,000 lbs and speeds
of 60 mph. An Italian consulting firm has completed design, financed by
the Government, of a 960 km road between Khartoum and Port Sudan. The
Egyptian Organization of Roads and Bridges, under a contract with the
Government, has designed 4 roads totalling 590 km.
3.14      None of these designs were supported by feasibility studies.  The
choice of the design standards was left to the consultants, resulting in ex-
tremely varied and inconsistent standards. For some roads, pavements appear
to be overdesigned for anticipated traffic, and structural design is outdated.
The project includes consulting services to review the design standards used



-9-
and reconmend appropriate ones (para. 4.02). During credit negotiations, the
Government gave an assurance that it will establish adequate highway design
standards, satisfactory to the Association.
F.   Construction
3.15      Virtually all roads in the Sudan have been constructed by force
account. An exception is the 180 km Khartoum-Wad Medani Road, begun by a
US contractor but completed by force account after the contractor left in
1967. In the last 10 years, about 100 km of paved roads were built by force
account near Khartoum. Workmanship was not entirely satisfactory; in particu-
lar, bituminous paving and concrete work for culverts and bridges appear to
be substandard. A 185 km gravel-surfaced road, between Dilling and Kadugli
in the Kordofan Province, is nearly completed. Work has been slow, averaging
about 10 km annually. A 960 km road is proposed for construction between
Khartoum and Port Sudan. The PRC is financing construction of a 229 km
section between Wad Medani and Gedaref, and the Sheikdom of Abu Dhabi is
financing another 240 km inland from Port Sudan. No details are available
on the construction methods. Also about 2,000 km of low-class feeder and
farm roads will be constructed under the Second Mechanized Farming Project
(Credit 311-SU, June 12, 1972, US$11.25 million).
G.   Maintenance
3.16      Maintenance of paved and gravel-surfaced main roads by the DOR is
haphazard and insufficient. Operations are not planned, and routine and
periodic maintenance programs do not exist. Maintenance of lower-class
roads and tracks by the Local Government is not coordinated with that of
the DOR. Maintenance of low standard, dry-weather roads constructed for MFC
development projects is carried out, as needed, by the MFC.
3.17      The DOR has only one workshop, on the Khartoum-Wad Medani Road
about 10 km from the capital. Its work space and equipment are adequate,
but its equipment needs to be repaired and rehabilitated. Sufficient qual-
ified mechanics and spare parts are lacking, and operations are inefficient
and poorly organized. As a result, a substantial part of the available main-
tenance equipment is not operational. Under the project, spare parts will
be procured to rehabilitate this equipment (para. 4.06). Because workshops
are lacking, maintenance of equipment working far from Khartoum is even more
of a problem. This equipment is stored in yards which offer only bare
shelter and minor service. The workshops of the Local Government are merely
yards. The MFC operates a small workshop for its construction team in Gedaref,
equipped only for routine service and small repairs. This workshop will be
expanded under the Second Mechanized Farming Project (para. 3.15).
3.18      The DOR does not have maintenance organizations outside Khartoum.
Engineering staff, skilled personnel, and equipment are seconded ad hoc to
works outside the capital.  Unskilled labor is hired locally.  Maintenance
could be expanded and improved if permanent maintenance organiizations were
established and adequate workshops were constructed outside Khartoum. The



- 10 -
project includes consulting services to determine the locations and organiza-
tion of these centers (para. 4.02). During credit negotiations, the Govern-
ment gave assurances that it will establish the necessary workshop facilities
and field organization satisfactory to the Association.
3.19      The manufactures and models of the DOR equipment fleet are not
standardized. Most is supplied by Bank Group member countries, but some has
recently been acquired from the German Democratic Republic (GDR). The bulk
of the older equipment urgently needs spare parts and overhauling. The Local
Government has recently purchased equipment from the Czechoslovak Socialist
Republic, GDR, Polish People's Republic,and Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Details about the purchases are not available.
H.   Training
3.20      The Department of Labor operates a national vocational training
school at Wad Medani, with in-plant training facilities at Khartoum. The
school is operated with the assistance of the International Labour Organisa-
tion (ILO) and annually trains about 24 mechanics for heavy earthmoving
equipment. It also provides refresher courses for equipment operators and
mechanics in government service and the private sector. The facilities could
be expanded and used to train equipment operators and mechanics under the
Highway Project. The ILO is unlikely to be able to provide funds for train-
ing other than those envisaged under its current project, which will ensure
training until late 1975. Therefore, the project includes funds to finance
the services of foreign instructors to provide the training recommended by
consultants under the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i) consulting services to the DOR for:
a)   improving its organization and operations
.(with emphasis on highway betterment and
maintenance);
b)   identifying high priority road construction
projects; and
c)   carrying out feasibility studies of about
500 km of roads identified under (b) above,
followed by detailed engineering and/or
revisions to existing detailed engineering
of about 350 km of the highest priority
roads;



- 11 -
(ii)  purchases of: spare parts for existing highway mainten-
ance, workshop, and laboratory equipment; new equipment
in these categories with related spare parts; and ma-
terials and supplies for highway betterment works and
workshop construction; and
(iii) technical assistance to the MOT in transport planning
and coordination as well as staff training.
(a) Consulting Services for Organizational and Operational
Improvements and for Identification of High Priority
Road Projects
4.02      A qualified and experienced consulting firm will provide these
services to the DOR in 2 phases.  Under the first phase (about 1 year), a
team of up to 14 experts will be employed to:
(i) prepare a program of highway betterment and maintenance
for 1973-78 and determine budget requirements for it
based on needs for manpower, equipment, workshops, and
materials;
(ii)  prepare specifications, lists, and bidding documents
for purchases of spare parts, equipment, and materials
and supplies (para. 4.01) and assist the DOR in evaluat-
ing bids and awarding contracts;
(iii) advise and assist DOR staff on emergency rehabilitation
of existing maintenance equipment;
(iv)  review the existing DOR organization and operations
and recommend improvements based on the proposed 1973-
78 highway betterment and maintenance programs;
(v)  determine the training needs of highway staff at all
levels, prepare appropriate training programs, and
advise on the facilities and funds required to carry
out the programs;
(vi)  identify high priority road construction projects and
develop appropriate design standards for different
road types and traffic levels;
(vii) prepare suitable highway traffic and usage regulations,
including vehicle weight and dimension limitations,
and recommend the appropriate organization to enforce
them; and
(viii) establish a program for collection of highway traffic
data.



- 12 -
Under the second phase (about 2 years), the consultants will assist the
DOR in implementing the agreed recommendations and carrying out the agreed
highway betterment and maintenance programs.
4.03      During credit negotiations, the Government gave assurances, in
consultation with the Association, that it will: (i) discuss and confirm,
after the first phase has been completed, the recommendations and implemen-
tation timetable for the second phase; and (ii) review the progress of the
proposed improvements before the end of the second phase and determine
whether further consulting services are needed. Because the highway better-
ment and maintenance program to be carried out and the spare parts, equip-
ment, and materials and supplies to be purchased under the project will be
identified in detail by the consultants only during project execution,
signature by the Government of the contract for consulting services to
the DOR for the items described in para. 4.02 is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.04      The training program to be prepared by the consultants under the
first phase will be based on the qualifications of available personnel and
on a review of the existing facilities in the country. Most senior staff
are academically well-qualified and no training abroad is needed, but more
equipment operators and mechanics must be trained locally. Foreign instruc-
tors will be employed under the project to provide the training. The con-
sultants will advise on the instruction and training facilities required.
The Government realizes that training cannot be limited to the project pe-
riod and should be continuous. During credit negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that it will: (i) formulate, with the aid of the consul-
tants, a realistic permanent training program satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; and (ii) take the necessary steps, including the provision of funds,
to implement it.
(b) Consulting Services for Feasibility
Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.05      After the first phase of the consulting services to the DOR has
been completed (para. 4.02), either the same or another consulting firm
will be employed for feasibility studies and detailed engineering. Fea-
sibility studies will be made of about 500 km of roads identified as high
priority under the first phase. About 350 km of such roads will be selected
for detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents. If they in-
clude roads for which detailed engineering already exists, the consultants
will review and amend the existing engineering in accordance with the design
standards recommended for these roads. These elements will provide a suit-
able basis for further lending in the highway sector by external agencies.
During credit negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that it will
agree with the Association on the roads for feasibility studies before
these studies begin and on the roads for which detailed engineering will
be subsequently prepared.



- 13 -
(c) Purchases of Spare Parts, Equipment,
and Materials and Supplies
4.06      Much of the existing DOR maintenance, workshop, and laboratory
equipment is out of order. Most has not been used extensively and could
be made operational if spare parts were available. Under the project,
spare parts will be purchased for this purpose. Rehabilitation of the
equipment should result in an additional useful life of at least 4 years.
Details of the equipment requiring spare parts are given in Table 8.
4.07      Also new equipment is needed to maintain the highway network and
carry out the highway betterment programs. The project provides for pur-
chases of additional equipment, based on a tentative list prepared by the
Association (Table 9). The consultants will identify specific needs for
maintenance, workshop, and laboratory equipment, and establish a 2-3 year
program to purchase them (para. 4.06).
4.08      Because highway maintenance has been neglected, much of the net-
work needs emergency betterment, like surfacing, gravelling, and drainage
works, to bring the roads back to the standard where routine maintenance
can be resumed. Imported materials, like steel and asphalt, to carry out
the highway betterment program and to construct workshops will be purchased
under the project.
(d) Technical Assistance and Training
4.09      Two qualified and experienced transport experts will provide tech-
nical assistance to the MOT for about 2 years. They will advise and assist
in establishing an appropriate organization for planning and coordinating
transport investments (including those for the Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor)
and in developing an integrated transport system (para. 2.15). The comparative
study of oil transport by rail or pipeline will be carried out by qualified
consultants upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Be-
fore the end of the technical assistance, the Government and the Association
will review the progress of transport planning and determine whether further
expert services are needed.
4.10      About 180 equipment operators and 80 mechanics will be trained
under the project to supplement the ILO training at the national vocational
training school at Wad Medani (para. 3.20). Training will be provided by
foreign instructors, who are expected to be employed for about 4 man-years.
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.11      The project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$10.9
million.  The foreign exchange component is US$7 million, and the local com-
ponent, net of taxes, is about US$1 million or 13% of the net capital cost of
the project. Detailed costs are shown in the table on page 14.



- 14 -
LSd                 US$           Foreign
(thousand)            (thousand)      Exchange
Project Elements       Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Component
I. Consulting Services
to the DOR for:
a) Organizational
and Operational
Imp rovements and
Identification of
Road Projects         105    315    420    300    900  1,200       75
b) Feasibility studies
and detailed
engineering            80    315    395    230    900  1,130       80
Sub-total I        185    630    815    530  1,800  2,330
II. Purchases of:
a) Spares for
existing equipment   175    175    350    500    500  1,000        50
b) New equipment
(including spares)   695  1,o45  1,740  2,000  3,000  5,000       60
c) Materials and
supplies              110    170    280    320  - 480    800       60
Sub-total II       980  1,390  2,370  2,820  3,980  6,800
III.  Technical Assistance
to the MOT and
Training                   45    130    175    125    375    500       75
IV.  Contingency Allowances
on Items I-IIx1 /         145    295    440    425    845  1,270
Total I - IV        1      2,445  3,800  3,900  7,000 10,900       65
1/ 10% physical and 10% price on I and III and 10% price on II.



- 15 -
4.12      Cost estimates for :he consulting services, technical assistance,
and training are based on man-months required and on costs of these serv-
ices in countries with local conditions similar to those of the Sudan.
The costs of spare parts, equipment, and materials and supplies are based
on preliminary lists of requirements drawn up by the DOR and the Association.
Specific lists of items to be purchased will be prepared by consultants (para.
4.07), by about mid-1973.
4.13      A 10% physical contingency allowance has been considered adequate
for the consulting services, technical assistance, and training. In addi-
tion, a 10% contingency allowance has been added for price increases or, 
project elements based on the expected implementation schedule and ar _sti-
mated increase of about 5% annually in both local and foreign prices.
4.14      The foreign exchange components of the consulting services, tech-
nical assistance, and training are based on the costs of salaries, transpor-
tation, equipment, and major imported subsistence items for the foreign ex-
perts. The foreign exchange components of the spare parts, equipment, and
materials and supplies purchases are based on the cif landed cost, Port
Sudan.
C.   Execution
4.15      The MOT and its DOR, assisted by consultants under the project,
will be responsible for carrying out the project. During credit negotia-
tions, the Government gave assurances that it will employ qualified and
experienced consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. The spare parts for the existing equipment, all of which
are of Bank member origin, are tied to the equipment manufacturers and
will be purchased after quotations are obtained from selected local sup-
pliers or agents. The new equipment (including spare parts) will be sub-
ject to international competitive bidding according to Bank Group Guidelines
for Procurement. All materials and supplies will be imported and purchased
through local commercial channels, using competitive bidding where possible.
4.16      In agreement with the Association, the Government invited 5 con-
sulting firms (1 Danish, 1 French, 1 Italian, and 2 US) to submit proposals
tsor the consulting services to the DOR (paras. 4.02-4.04).  In agreement
<ith the Association, the Government has selected the firm of Louis Berg r,
Inc. (US) and has started contract negotiations with this firm.
4.17      The consulting services to the DOR are expected to begin by
about September 1972 and those for the feasibility studies and detailed en-
gineering by about September 1973. Technical assistance in transport plan-
ning and coordination is expected to start early in 1973 and training of
additional equipment operators and mechanics by the middle of 1973. After
the inventory of existing equipment has been completed by the consultants,
the list of spare parts purchases can be agreed with the Association. The
first orders are expected to be placed in early 1973. The new equipment will
be purchased in two lots based on the consultants' detailed recommendations.
The first lot could be purchased about 18 months after credit approval and
the second about 1 year later.



- 16 -
4.18      The Sudan has no preferential tariffs for equipment or spare parts,
but does have an arrangement with the Arab Republic of Egypt whereby the
usual 40% import duty is reduced to 20% for asphalt and 16% for steel.
4.19      According to employment statistics, unemployment is not a problem
in the Sudan. However, in determining the highway betterment and maintenance
program and the equipment needs, the consultants will review employment con-
ditions in the areas to be served and establish a realistic balance between
the use of labor and equipment for betterment and maintenance. Because this
is primarily a maintenance and engineering project, it does not provide a
suitable means to help develop the local highway contracting industry, now
virtually non-existent. Such development may be encouraged through subse-
quent highway projects, which are expected to contain suitable construction
elements.
D.   Financing
4.20      The proposed credit will finance the foreign exchange costs of
the project. The Government confirmed during credit negotiations that it
will meet the local costs.
E.   Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements from the Credit Account will be on the basis of 100%
of the foreign exchange costs of payments to consultants and experts and the
cif landed costs, Port Sudan, of the spare parts, equipment, and materials
and supplies. To ensure that the equipment and materials and supplies will
be used efficiently, no funds will be disbursed to purchase them until the
Association is satisfied with the highway betterment and maintenance program.
4.22      Based on the schedule of project implementation (para. 4.17) and
on the disbursement percentages (para. 4.21), an Estimated Schedule of Dis-
bursements has been prepared. The Government and the Association reviewed
the Schedule, shown in the Annex, during credit negotiations. Surplus funds
remaining in the Credit Account when the project has been completed will be
cancelled.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Highway Betterment and Maintenance
5.01      Benefits from purchasing spare parts, equipment, and materials
and supplies and from carrying out improved highway betterment and mainte-
nance programs will be substantial. But they are difficult to quantify
precisely because statistics are lacking and the highway betterment and
maintenance program to be carried out will be defined in detail only dur-
ing project execution. An evaluation has been made of possible returns
from the capital costs and estimated recurrent expenditures for betterment
and improved maintenance of part of the highway network. The evaluation was



- 17 -
based on an assumed 7-year program (the estimated economic life of the equip-
ment to be purchased) of (i) annual betterment of about 250 km of roads and
tracks, and (ii) adequate maintenance of up to 5,500 km of the network, in-
cluding the improved road sections. The program,was prepared by the ap-
praisal mission, taking into account the estimated project implementation
schedule and the equipment to be rehabilitated and purchased. It is prelim-
inary and will be defined in detail by the consultants under the project.
5.02      To illustrate the economic benefits of this program, roads to be
improved have been conservatively estimated to carry an Average Daily Traf-
fic (ADT) of 40 medium trucks and the roads to be maintained about 20. Based
on past trends, this traffic was estimated to grow at an average annual rate
of 5%. Average operating costs of medium trucks in the Sudan under present
road conditions were calculated at US$0.30/km. Experience in countries with
similar road conditions indicates that vehicle operating costs on the re-
habilitated roads were estimated to be reduced about 40% by betterment and
about 20% by improved maintenance. On these estimates, the capital and
current expenditures, including physical contingencies, for carrying out
the betterment and maintenance program will yield an Economic Return (ER)
of about 32% and a Benefit/Cost Ratio (at 10% discount) of about 1.6.
5.03      To determine the effect of the various assumptions on the estimated
ER, sensitivity analyses were undertaken by:
(i) reducing the estimated savings in vehicle operating
costs to 30% on the bettered roads and to 15% on the
roads in the maintenance program (a 25% reduction in
benefits);
(ii)  reducing the annual traffic growth rate to 3%;
(iii)  increasing initial ADT or benefits 25%;
(iv)  increasing program costs 10%; and
(v) reducing benefits 25% and increasing program costs 10%.
The results (Table 10) indicate that under the most pessimistic assumption,
the ER will be reduced to about 13% and the Benefit/Cost Ratio to about 1.1.
Under the optimistic assumption, the ER will be over 40% and the Benefit/
Cost Ratio about 1.9.
5.04      The economic analysis is conservative because it does not reflect
the: (i) substantial unquantifiable benefits from improved DOR operations,
which will continue after 7 years; (ii) expected emphasis of the betterment
program on improving roads which will carry more than average traffic; and
(iii) unquantified benefits from traffic generated by improved road condi-
tions.



- 18 -
5.05      The preceding discussion, although only illustrative, indicates
that the highway betterment and maintenance program is economically well
justified.
B.   Feasibility Studies, Detailed Engineering,
Technical Assistance, and Training
5.06      These elements of the project will assist the Government in iden-
tifying high priority investment projects for the transport sector, prepar-
ing highway projects suitable for further lending by external agencies, and
building up the required highway maintenance capability. Benefits were not
quantified for the investments in these elements, but they are justified as
they will provide the basis for coordinating transport investments, for
further improving and expanding the highway network, and for improving the
efficiency of the DOR.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following principal issues were discussed during credit nego-
tiations, and the Government agreed that it will:
(i)  take measures (including legislation, where necessary)
to regulate highway traffic and usage (including vehicle
weight and dimension limitations) and take adequate ac-
tion to enforce such measures (para. 3.05);
(ii)  make no further changes in the DOR's functions and respon-
sibilities which will materially and adversely affect
project execution (para. 3.07);
(iii)  establish adequate highway design standards (para. 3.14);
(iv)  establish the necessary workshop facilities and field
organization for highway maintenance (para. 3.18);
(v)  with the Association:  discuss and confirm, after the
first phase of the consulting services to the DOR, the
recommendations and timetable for the second phase; and
review the progress of the proposed improvements before
the end of the second phase and determine whether further
consulting services are needed (para. 4.03);
(vi) formulate, with the aid of the consultants, a realistic
permanent training program and take the necessary steps,
including the provision of funds, to implement it (para.
4.04);



- 19 -
(vii)  agree with the Association on the roads for feasibility
studies before the studies begin and on the roads for which
detailed engineering will be subsequently prepared (para.
4.05); and
(viii)  provide the local costs of the project (para. 4.20).
6.02      A condition of credit effectiveness is signature by the Government
of the contract for consulting services to the DOR to improve its organiza-
tion and operations and identify high priority road construction projects
(para. 4.03).
6.03      The Association recommends that a credit of US$7 million should be
made to the Government of the Democratic Republic of Sudan on the usual terms.
July 17, 1972






TABIE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PRO JECT
SUDAN
Transport Traffic Daa  FY1965/66-FY1970/71
Fiscal                        Railway                 ___   River                                                                      Air
Year      Passengers    Pass-km       M Ton      Ton-km      Passengers    Pass-km       M Ton    Ton-km        Passergers    Pass-km       M Ton      Ton-km
(thousands)  (millions)(tho;sands)(milio _ -                -------(tnousands)---------------    (numbers)    (millions)  (actual) (thousaads)
1965/66         3,365          886       2,604      2,176          187          n.a.         127    81,308         96,343         113          1,633     2,018
1966/67         3,538         957        2,670      2,289          219          n.a.         122    59,914        102,247         115          1,386     1,810
1967/68         3,379          920       2,545      2,145          238          n.a.         124    62,221         91,127         113          1,481     2,090
1968/69         3,241          991       2,904      2,507          256          n.a.         145    90,264        124,080          138         1,554     1,958
1969/70         3,878       1,004        3,005      2,576          302          n.a.         122    88,ooo        123,848          134         1,655     2,041
1970/71         3,1417      1,023        3,062      2,683          262          n.a.         129     n.a.         136,973          170         2,311      1,929
Average
Annual
Growth
Rate
%)T               0            7            4         4            7          n.a.           0       1/                7            8            7          0
1/ No stable trend.
Note: n.a. means not available.
Source: Railway and river data: Sudan Railways, Summary of Operatirg Statistics, March 10, 1971, Tables 5 and 6A.
Air data: Sudan Airways, Financial and Statistics Report, July 1970-June 1971, p. 17.
July 17, 1972



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Transport Share of Public Investment Budge't
Transport Investmen b
Total
Total                % of Total   Sudan   Sudan
Fiscal      Public                 Public      Rail-  Shipping   Sudan   Civil                 Meohanical
Year     Investoent   Amount   Investment   ways        Line   AirwVrs ATiation    Roads    Transpor t!   Other
(LSd thousand                                                (LSd thouNsnT-
Past
1965/66     35,504       7,168       20        5,858        0       626      48         140         15        481
1966/67     25,448       3,529        14       2,604        0       596      24         141         11        153
1967/68     22,280       4,346        20       3,200        0       397      23         365         13        348
1968/69     25,960       4,460        17       2,646        0       270      30         520         34        960
1969/70     28,540       4,720        17       3,250        0         0    150          862         38        420
1970/71     30,225       3,178        11       1,966        0         0    205          494         16        497
Proposed
1971/72     65,954      10,075       15        4,017   1,750        105    409        3,015 2/    130         649
1972/73     53,303      11,739        22       3,150   1,750      1,500     271       4,263 2      130        675
1973/74     57,000      10,457       18        3,150        0     1,600     200       4,600        130        777
1974/75     60,000      11,333        19       3,162        0    1,800      250       5,200        119        802
1/ Government vehicles.
2/ Includes a LSd 2.)4 million grant from the People's Republic of China for the Wad Medani-Gedaref Road.
Source: Ministry of Planning, November 1971
July 17, 1972



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Comparison of Selected Highway Densities, 1969
Km of                 Km of
Total Road Length    Total Road Length
Country                per 1,000 Km'    per 1,000 Inhabitants
Central African Republic            350                  143
Chad                                239                   88
Egypt, Arab Republic of             216                     7
Kenya                               715                   38
Somalia                             251                   57
Uganda                               102                   25
United States                     6,324                   293
Zaire                               597                   78
Sudan                                 5                    1
Source: IBRD, Transportation Sector Working Paper, January 1972
July 17, 1972



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Highway Network, by Province and Surface Type
(ki)
Surface Type
Province             Asphalt        Gravel            Earth         Total
Bahr El Ghazal           0            470             1,270         1,740
Blue Nile                0               0            1,500         1,500
Darfur                   0               0            2,300         2,300
Equatoria                0          1,830               470         2,300
Kassala                 48               0            3,000         3,o48
Khartoum               286               0                 0          286
Kordofan                 0            210             3,020         3,230
Northern                 0               0            1,360         1,360
Upper Nile               0               0            2,650         2,650
Total               334           2,510            15,570        18,414
% of total             2             13                85           100
Source: Ministry of Planning, Economic Survey 1969, November 1971
July 17, 1972



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Vehicle Registrations, 1961-69
(Units)
Total Cars Motorcycles Total
Trucks,       and     Vehicle
Calendar          1/        2/                   Buses and  Motorized   Regis-
Year        Cars-  Trucks-  Buses  Others3/    Others      Bicycles   trations
1961       15,199   11,744     60h   1,h40      28,948       1,165     30,113
1962       16,781   14,767   1,004   2,483      35,035       1,368     36,403
1963       18,594   16,899   1,393   3,216      40,102       1,821     41,923
1964       18,761   17,412   1,498   3,032      40,703       1,950     42,653
1965       23,062   17,019   1,614   2,495      44.,190      2,125     46,315
1966       23,704   15,067   1,804   3,080      43,655       2,147     45,802
1967       25,117   16,076   1,949   2,993      46,135       1,546     47,681
1968       25,424   17,083   2,363   3,252      48,122       1,756     49,878
1969       26,940   17,722   2,071   3,853      50,586       1,811     52,397
Average
Annual
Growth
Rate
(X1                                                                    8
1/ Includes taxies, saloons, jeeps, land rovers, and station wagons.
2/ Includes lorries, box cars, and delivery vans.
3/ Includes fire vehicles, tractors, and other transport vehicles.
Source: Ministry of Planning, November 1971
July 17, 1972



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Vehicle Fuel Consumption Through Retail Outlets, 1960-70
(m ton)
Calendar
Year            Gasoline         Diesel               Total
1960              n.a.           73,250               n.a.
1961              n.a.           74,740               n.a.
1962              n.a.   1/      76,200               n.a.
1963             41,896          83,000             124,896
1964             42,616          78,040              120,656
1965             53,532  1/      78,260              131,792
1966             62,251 -        81,710              143,961
1967             69,600          82,200             151,800
1968             96,700          91,800             188,500
1969            108,400          94,680              203,080
1970            122,181          96,022             218,203
Average
Annual
Growth
Rate
M(%) i=                                               8
1/ Estimated.
Note: n.a. means not available.
Source: Shell Oil Company - Sudan, November 1971
July 17, 1972



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Budget Allocations by Local Government
for Construction and Maintenance of Local and Through Roads, FY1969/70
(LSd)
Budget Allooations
Roads
Province             Local          Through            Total.
Bahr El Gazal           3,725           81,925           85,650
Blue Nile              21,405           49,920           71,325
Darfur                  6,860           17,405           24,265
Equatoria              12,660          105,098          117,758
Kassala                24,302           51,567           75,869
Khartoum               22,080          125,900          147,980
Kordofan               15,210           19,500           34,710
Northern                6,440            3,150            9,590
Upper Nile             19,110           55,160           74,270
Total            1314,792         269,925          641,417't
1/ The Central Government, through the Ministry of Local Government, provides
an annual grant of about LSd 129,000 for road maintenance.
Source:  Ministry of Local Government, November 1971
July 17, 1972



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Maintenance Equipment Requiring Spsnre Parts
Cost of
Spare Parts
Type of                              To be           cif Landed,
Equipment            Manufacturer    Repaired          Port Sudan
(Units)       (US$ thousand)
Asphalt kettles        Phoenix              6                 5
Bulldozers             Letourneau           3                25
Dumpers                Euclid               4                20
Motor graders          Caterpillar         38                55
Gallion             12                20
Motor acrapers         Caterpillar         12                70
Letourneau           6                25
Rollers                Aveling             10                20
Bross               10                12
Gallion            11                  8
Stone crusher plants  Various               5                50
Tip-trucks            Mercedes-Benz        16                15
Tractors               Caterpillar         25              120
Fordson              5                 5
Water tankers          Ford                12                15
Workshop machinery    Various                                35
Total                                                    500
Source: Ministry of Transport, November 1971
Jly 17, 1972



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
Tentative List of New Equipment
Required for Highway Betterment and Maintenance
Unit Price         Total Price
To be          clf Landed,        cif Landed,
Type of Equipment      Purchased        Port Sudan         Port Sudan
(Units)                  (US$ thousand)
Asphalt trucks             2                 11                  22
Bulldozers                 7                 50                 350
Liaison vehicles          34                  4                 136
Loaders                    5                 30                 150
Maintenance units          7                  6                  42
Tankers                   25                 11                 275
Tip-trucks                70                 11                 770
Tools                                                            70
Miscellaneous                                                    85
Sub-total                                                   1,900
Spares 40%                                                      760
Sub-total                                                  2,660
Workshop Equipment & Spares                                     340
Total                                                      3,000
Source: Mission Estimates, November 1971
July 17, 1972



TABLE 10
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUJAN
Economic Return and Benefit/Coat Ratio Senaiti.vity AnAalyis
Internal Economic
Return      Benefit/Cost Ratio
Assumptions8                  ()            (10% Discount)
Most Likely Conditions;               32                  1.6
REduo. bmefit. 25%                  17                 1.2
Annual traffic growth 3%            28                 1.4
Increase initial ADT
or benefits 25%                   3                  1.9
Increase program Coats
10%                               27                 1.k
Reduce benefits 25% and
increase program coatq
10%                               13                 1.1
Source: Mission Estimates, March 1972
July 17, 1972



ANNNEX
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal                                         Cumulative Disbursement
Year and Quarter                                            at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                                 105
December 31, 1972                                                  315
March 31, 1973                                                     745
June 30, 1973                                                   1,075
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                              1,320
December 31, 1973                                                2,235
March 31, 1974                                                   2,780
June 30, 1974                                                   3,085
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                              4,150
December 31, 1974                                               4, 30
March 31, 1975                                                  14,620
June 30, 1975                                                   5,970
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                              6,220
December 31, 1975                                               6,360
March 31, 1976                                                  6,950
June 30, 1976                                                   7,000
Source: Mission Estimates, March 1972
JVILy 17, 1972






APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
MINISTER
TRANSPORT
DEPUTY MINISTER
TRANSPORT
N                 :         ySUDAN                    DEPARTMENT N                   NNO ATERAES
RAIULVVAY1  41 RWAY                                      "FtATIRON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRE SCTO
RODF
A28)
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPARTM'ENT OF ROADS
ACONSSCTION
1251
DEUYGENERA L MANAGER                    DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
CONSTRUCTION AND                            PROJECTS AND                                                G         SETO
,  PU i   MAINTENANCE                          ADMINISTRATION                                                     (20
ASSISTANT                         ASSISTANT                         ASSISTANT                                           ASSISTANT
GENERAL MANAGER                   GENERAL MANAGER                   GENERAL MANAGER                                     GENERAL MANAGER                                       _            15
MAINTENANCE                        MECHANICAL                       CONSTRUCTION                                         PROJECTS
SENIOR ENGINEER                   SENIOR ENGINEER                  SENIOR RESIDENT                             SENIOR ENGINEER                   SENIEO ENSENIOR ENGINEER
|   MAINTENANCE                    MECHANICAL                        ENGINEERS                                  STRUCTURES 
(NONE AT PRESENT)                 (NONE AT PRESENT)                        1141                                       11                                (S)                         tLABORATORY) 11)
MAINTENANCE ENGINEERS             MECHANCAL ENGINEERS                 RESIDENT ENGINEERS                             STR UCTURES E                                                         A   IG
121                               111                               121                                                                       RE  FIE
ASSISTANT ENGINEERS              ASSISTANT ENGINEERS                ASSISTANT ENGINEER                         ASSISTANT ENGINEER                 ASSISTANT ENGINEER                ASSISTANT ENGINEER
AND TECHNICIANS                   AND                                   TECHNICIANS                            AND TECHNICIANS                  ASSISTANT SURVEYORS                AND LABORATORY
15)                              (20)                               (A Il                                                                  DRAFTSMEN  (181                    TECHNICIAN (61
LABOR FORCE                        LABOR FORCE                       LABOR FORCE                                CAR ORIVERS                        CAR DRIVERS                     A D CAR DRIVERS
(210)                            (1150                              1550                                                                     AND LABORERS                           (40
F   -                                                                                                                  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~601
-,Ix D  et end R--ident -9g1--ers .re sration d aw H-adqu-rtEr. and as-,-nId    B 0 fnI6  45-k 2n an ad-.A    B 04,21
Goorcs Mlnist,A of T,-,.o,t, KI.sr-om Ma-Ih 1972                                                                                                                                                Wo, B- 6.29 (2R






   >   -   t.  .  @  @ . Wc | t t B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> 
>n  0                                       iI
\   t 3 t   m   .'   v   D   {   *-'~~~~~,;   na Zl         C :     -0  >
rXmr~~~~M
co ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ro
4-~~~~~~~~~-~
A D   ~~ 
Aj~~~~~~~~~~~5    ~C~~~0~
a    a~~~~~~ 
a 0                                '
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~~-
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



