Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4257
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 331-SU)
December 21, 1982
Transportation II Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                             i
Basic Data Sheet                                                    ii
Highlights                                                          iv
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                   1
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                              2
A.   Origin of Project                                         2
B.   Preparation and Appraisal                                 2
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND COST                                        4
A.   Project Description                                       4
B.   First Phase of Consultancy Services                       5
C.   Procurement                                               6
D.   Second Phase of Consultancy Services and Government's
Compliance with Recommendations of the First Phase
Studies                                                   8
E.   Preinvestment Studies                                    11
F.   Technical Assistance for Ministry of Transport           12
G.   Implementation Schedule                                  12
H.   Costs and Disbursements                                  13
I.   Progress Reporting                                       14
J.   Covenants                                                14
IV.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION                                         15
V.   CONCLUSION                                                    17
A.   Performance of the Borrower                              17
B.   Performance of the Association                           17
C.   Performance of Consultants                               17
D.   Lessons Learned                                          18
ANNEX I
TABLES 3.01 - 4.01
CHARTS
1.   Organization Chart - Staff Appraisal Report, First Highway
Project, Credit 331-SU
2.   Organization Chart - Staff Appraisal Report, Second Highway
Project, Credit 882-SU
MAP - Sudan Second Highway Project, Transportation Network (IBRD 13332R)
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Project Completion Report
Sudan First Highway Project
(Credit 331-SU)
PREFACE
Credit 331-SU for the Sudan First Highway Project for US$7 million
equivalent was signed on September 29, 1972 and was made effective on February
6, 1973. The Closing Date was extended several times and ultimately set at
June 30, 1980. The Credit was fully disbursed except for a cancellation of
about US$ 220,000.
This Project Completion Report was prepared by the Eastern Africa
Regional Office on the basis of data available in IDA files and data collected
during a mission to Sudan in early 1981. The draft report was sent to the
Borrower for comments; however, none were received.






SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 331-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                            Original Plan      Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                 10.9             12.0 - /
Overrun (%)                                        -             +10.01/
Credit Amount (US$ million)                       7.0              7.0
Disbursed                                    7.0              6.8
Cancelled                                     -               0.2
Repaid to June 1981                           -                -
Outstanding to June 1981                     6.8              6.8
Date Physical Components Completed               06/30/76       06/30/80
Proportion Completed by Expected Date (%)        100               80
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                     -             +114
Economic Rate of Return (%)                       32               30
Institutional Performance                          -          Lmprovea
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan         Revised Plan           Actual
First mention in Files                                      -                02/26/70
Government's Application             -                      -                06/10/71
Appraisal                        10/09/71                   -                10/16-11/05/71
Negotiations                     05/22-26/71                -                05/25-30/71
Board Approval                   06/-/72                 07/-/72             08/01/72
Loan/Credit Agreement Date       07/-/72                 08/-/72             09/29/72
Effectiveness Date               12/29/72                02/28/73            02/06/73
Closing Date                     12/31/76       12/31/78-12/31/79-06/30/80   06/20/80
Borrower                         The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Executing Agency                 Ministry of Transport
Fiscal Year of Borrower          July 1-June 30
Follow-on Project:  Name         Second Highway Project
Credit No.             882-SU
Amount (US$ million)   41.0
1/ Scope of project reduced to keep costs within available funds.






Basic Data Sheet - continued
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of
weeks     Persons    Man-weeks    Date of Report
Reconnaisance                 Jan.-Feb. 1970             1.0        1          1.0        Feb. 26, 1970
Identification                June 3-8, 1971             1.0        1          1.0       June 23, 1971
Preappraisal                  Aug. 15-20, 1971           0.7        3          2.1       Sept. 9, 1971
Appraisal                     Oct. 15-Nov. 5, 1971       2.9         2          5.0
Follow-up I                   March 11-16, 1972          0.9        1          0.9       -:arch 30, 1972
Follow-up .IIT                June 3-10, 1972            1.0        1          1.0       June 21, 1972
Follow-up IIMi/               July 8-20, 1972            1.7        1          1.7       July 25, 1972
Transport S  tor (RMEA)2/     Nov. 25-Dec. 11, 1972      0.7        2          1.4       Jan. 9, 1973
Supervisionrw_                March 25-Apr. 5, 1973      1.6        2          3.2       May 2, 1973
Supervision3/                 Nov. 9-23, 1973            2.0        1          2.0       Jan. 18, 1974
Transport Sector (RMEA).!/    May    , 1974              0.4        2          0.8       May 14, 1974
Supervision3/                 May 27-29, 1974            0.3        1          0.3       July 11, 1974
Supervision3/                 Oct. 23-30, 1974           1.0        1          1.0       Nov. 26, 1974
Supervision3/                 Sept. 27-Oct. 5, 1975      1.1        1          1.1       Oct. 10, 1975
Supervision13/                Nov. 9-21, 1975            1.7        2          2.3       Jan. 7, 1976
Supervision3/                 Feb. 27-Mar. 5, 1976       1.0        1          1.0       May 5, 1976
Supervision3/                 June 27-July 15, 1976      2.6        2          5.1       Aug. 18, 1976
Supervision3/.                Nov. 20-27, 1976           1.0        1          1.0       Dec. 21, 1976
Supervision4/                 June 26-July 14, 1977      2.6        2          5.1       Aug. 16, 1977
Supervision5/                 Oct. 4-26, 1977            3.3        3          7.6       N.A.
Supervision6/                 Mar. 25-Apr. 11, 1978      2.4        1          2.4       May 12, 1978
Supervision7/                 Feb. 7-21, 1979            2.0        1          2.0       March 29, 1979
Supervisionj/                 June 30-July 8, 1979       1.1        1          1.1       Aug. 20, 1979
Supervisioi&/                 Oct. 12-28, 1979           2.3        1          2.3       Dec. 6, 1979
Supervisiou6/                 Aug. 20-27, 1980           1.0        1          1.0       Oct. 17, 1980
Collection of Data for PCR    Jan. 23-Feb. 1, 1981       1.0        1          1.0       N.A.
1/   Assistance to Government in selection of consultants, a precondition to Board Presentation.
2/   Informal supervision of project.
3/   Included also preparation of Second Highway Project.
4/   Included also preappraisal of Second Highway Project.
5/   Only limited supervision carried out during appraisal of Second Highway Project.
6/ Also supervision of Second Highway Project and preparation of Third Highway Project.
7/   Same as 6/ with addition of supervision of road component of Second Mechanized Farming Project.
Country Exchange Rates
Currency name                                               Sudanese Pounds
Appraisal year (1971) average                               US$1.00 = LSd 0.35
Intervening years (1975-1976) average./                     US$1.00 = LSd 0.50
Completion year (1980) average                              US$1.00 = LSd 0.80
1/    when most of disbursements occurred.






- iv -
Project Completion Report
Sudan First Highway Project
(Credit 331-SU)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.   Notwithstanding that implementation of the project took twice as long as
estimated at the time of appraisal, and although a small part (detailed
engineering of 350 km of roads) had to be deleted from it to keep its cost
within available funds, by and large the project was successful. Although its
economic life is not yet completed, it is already evident that the procurement
of road maintenance equipment, spare parts and the technical assistance provided
under the project has led to improvements in the condition of the paved road
network.
2.   Lack of reliable data both at the time of appraisal and upon completion of
the project indicates that a comparison between estimated and actual economic
rates of return is not very meaningful, and any economic re-evaluation should be
considered as indicative only. For the maintenance program in the Southern
Region no data are available at all. For the Northern Region the economic
returns at completion are calculated to be higher that those estimated in the
Appraisal Report, namely 38% compared with 32%.    Even if benefits were reduced
by 25%, the resulting ERR can be conservatively assessed to be between 24% to
38%, confirming that the investment was sound.
3.   No attempt was made to quantify at the time of appraisal the benefits of
the consultants' services and no attempt has been made to do that at the time of
completion of the project. Their studies were useful in providing the basis for
most of subsequent developments in the highway subsector in the Sudan; the
pre-investment studies proved to be well justified as they have led to
investments in all roads studied.
4.   Also from the point of view of institution building through technical
assistance and training the project was successful. Performance of consultants
with respect to studies completed, and technical assistance and training
provided was satisfactory. Good progress was made in improving the organization
and operations of the created Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC,
previously DOR) established early in the project period. IDA's insistance at the
time of credit negotiations to increase the amount for consultancy services for
the Department of Roads (DOR) from the requested US$210,000 to US$1.2 million
proved to be well justified, and so was the unusual procedure to make signing of
the consultant's contract a condition of effectiveness.
5.   However, a problem that plagued the project from the beginning until its
completion was the inadequacy of recurrent budget funds for proper routine
maintenance. And whereas this problem was largely overcome at the time of
writing this PCR, funds for periodic maintenance are still inadequate. In
retrospect it would have been helpful if the Credit documents had specified
target allocations to be provided by the Government for highway maintenance
operations. This problem should receive particular attention during
implementation of subsequent highway projects.






6.   Another lesson learned during implementation of the project was the
weakness of the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Roads (SRMCTR), a weakness which was not fully identified and recognized until
1976. This problem was aggravated by the poor relations between the RBPC and
the SRMCTR. Of the 24 man-months earmarked for technical assistance to SRMCTR,
only four materialized owing to unsatisfactory working conditions in the South.
The Second Highway Project, Credit 882-SU, which became effective in January
1980, attends to this problem through providing technical assistance and related
services to strengthen the SRMCTR.
7.   Another problem, apart from the lack of local funds, which was a major
cause for the delay in implementation of the project was the Government's
indecision on accepting recommendations made in consultant's reports, and
reluctance in following IDA's standard procedures for international competitive
bidding for equipment. It took five months to comment on the consultant's
report and recommendations, but because of shortage of funds seven individual
experts recommended for strengthening the RBTC management were not recruited but
later partly financed by the Arab and Kuwait Funds.     It took the government
eleven months to approve bidding documents for procurement of equipment, while
inefficient port operations and insufficient capacity of the Sudanese railways
caused delays of six to eight months in moving the delivered equipment from the
port to Khartoum, and 18 months to the Southern Region.
8.   A well known phenomenon, which has plagued many non-oil African countries,
is the gradual deterioration of RBPC's performance following the emigration of
qualified domestic staff to the oil-rich Middle East countries.






SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Introduction
1.01      The reach of Sudan's modern transport facilities is very limited,
leaving vast areas with only primitive means of access. The 4,800 km rail-
way system, the principal means of transporting exports and imDorts to and
from Port Sudan, is unable to meet the demands placed upon it. Of the
almost 16,000 km of roads, only about 1,700 km mostly in the Khartoum-Port
Sudan corridor are paved (only 330 km in 1970); much of the rest of the
road network, particularly in the more populated and developed areas, is
built on heavy clay soils rendering them impassable during the (June-
October) rainy season.   River transport is the major surface link to the
south, but operational difficulties hinder its efficiency and reliability.
Air transport is constrained because most of Sudan's 20 airports are sub-
ject to closure during seasonal rains due to soft runways; only Khartoum,
Port Sudan and Juba airports are paved; and air traffic control and naviga-
tional communications are limited and unreliable.
1.02      The Government's development strategy centers around Sudan's
potential for agricultural expansion and economic stability in the near
term; future growth is expected to come principally from the agricultural
sector, with increasing volumes of products exported abroad to pay for
rising imports of consumer and capital goods. To support this strategy,
the Government's extended Five-Year Development Plan (FYs 1971-77) and the
subsequent Six-Year Plan (FYs 1978-83) stated the following objectives for
the transport sector:
(a) to attain higher utilization of existing facilities by
promoting operational efficiency;
(b) to increase the capacity of existing traffic corridors
where required, partly by promoting competition between
modes; and
(c) to expand the transport network to encourage dispersal
of economic activity to less developed areas and there-
by achieve more equitable and balanced economic and
social growth.
1.03      To assist with attaining these objectives, the Government
sought Bank Group assistance to improve its road maintenance administration
and operations. Based on sectorwide needs as assessed by a Bank Group eco-
nomic mission in 1971 and on the findings of identification and appraisal
missions in 1971, a project was formulated the aim of which was to: (a)
improve the organization and operations of the Department of Roads (DOR) of
the Ministry of Transport (MOT); (b) improve MOT's transport planning and
coordination; (c) identify priority roads and carry out feasibility and
engineering studies; (d) establish betterment/maintenance programs; and (e)
procure equipment and spare parts necessary to carry out these programs.



-2-
1.04      The First Highway Project (Credit 331-SU, TJS$7.0 million) was
signed on September 29, 1972 and was the first Bank Croup highway project
in Sudan. Involvement in the transport sector had already begun, however,
in 1958 with the First Railway Project. Since then there have been three
additional railway projects, a domestic aviation project, a Dort project
and a second highway project, for a total Bank GrouD assistance of UJS$170
million in Sudan's transport sector. In addition, several agricultural
projects have included road components, and a technical assistance project
provided funds for preinvestment work in the transport sector. The Bank
Group was also the executing agency for two UNDP-financed technical assist-
ance projects, one for the railways and the other for transport planning in
the Ministry of National Planning.   linally, EDI conducted four transport
planning courses in Sudan which have been attended by over 100 Sudanese.
1.05      The following review of the First Highway Project is based on the
documents listed in Annex 1.
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A.   Origin of Project
2.01      In early 1970 the Government asked the Association to review the
transport sector and to recommend priority tasks for its development.
Missions from the Association visited the country in 1970 and 1971 and
recommended that the highway subsector be given highest priority. This led
to the Government's June 10, 1970 application for USS5.5 million to finance
a two-year program for (a) procurement of urgently needed spare parts to
rehabilitate existing road and airfield maintenance equipment; (b)
procurement of new maintenance equipment; (c) consultancy services to (i)
select roads to be maintained and/or rehabilitated, prepare a maintenance
program and draw up a road development plan for the next five years, (ii)
carry out feasibility studies of priority roads in that plan, and (iii)
prepare a program to reorganize the Department of Roads (DOR) of the
Ministry of Transport (MOT); and (d) procurement of urgently needed
materials for emergency maintenance.
B.   Preparation and Appraisal
2.02      During a preappraisal mission in August 1971 and an appraisal
mission in October 1971 several changes were made in the scope, composition
and emphasis of the project as presented by the Government to the Bank.
Main differences resolved during those missions or at negotiations are
discussed below.
2.03      IDA was particularly concerned with the limited scope of the con-
sultancy services proposed in the Government's application. While MOT con-
tended that DOR had sufficient, qualified staff to prepare road invento-
ries, engineering design and maintenance programs as well as prepare and



-3-
undertake procurement of spare parts, materials and equipment, IDA felt
that DOR needed the guidance of consultants in order to use their qualified
professional staff and skilled personnel more efficiently. An agreement
was reached with MOT to increase the consultancy services for DOR from
US$0.21 million as proposed by MOT to US$1.2 million.
2.04      In addition to feasibility studies of high priority roads, IDA
suggested and MOT agreed that the project include funds for detailed
engineering of about 350 km of roads as preparation for possible future
Bank Group financing of road construction.
2.05      During the preparation period, a major reorganization of MOT took
place; DOR's responsibility for airfields was transferred to the Ministry
of Defense. This cleared the lines of responsibility considerably and sim-
plified the project approach.
2.06      As IDA regarded the initial consultancy services vital for the
successful implementation of the project, the selection of consultants and
the negotiation of a contract for their services was made a condition of
Board Presentation, and the finalization and signature of a contract was
made a condition of effectiveness. Due to MOT's inexperience in employing
consultants, the selection and negotiations took longer than anticipated
and required considerable assistance from IDA staff, who also wrote the
terms of reference and drafted general conditions for the contract. Board
Presentation was delayed about two months, while the signing of the con-
tract was accomplished three months in advance of effective date of the
Credit.
2.07      It was learnt at appraisal that Government was planning to
construct an oil pipeline between Port Sudan and Khartoum, yet no
comparative study of oil transport by rail or pipeline had been carried
out.  It was therefore agreed at negotiations that such a study be included
in the project. TOR were drawn up by IDA.
2.08      During appraisal it became evident that MOT's capacity for plan-
ning and coordination between modes was poor.   It was therefore agreed with
the Government that the project would provide for two transport experts as
technical assistance to MOT for this purpose. MOT's subsequent attempts to
employ consultants failed and this component was taken over by TINDP in
1975.
2.09      The project documents emphasized the difficulty of quantifying
benefits from the project components because of a lack of data and because
the road betterment and maintenance programs to be carried out would be
defined only after the consultants had completed their studies.   Indica-
tions of rates of return were, however, given for a seven-year betterment
program (even though the project period was expected to be only three and
half years) mostly based on experience in other countries. In retrospect,
assumptions for implementation were overly-optimistic, partcularly in view
of the fact that the executing agency had no experience in Implementing
major projects and very little, if any, knowledge of international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) procedures.



-4-
2.10      An additional difficulty arose from the lack of local funds for
project execution. During the extended project period, insufficient
recurrent funds were allocated to road maintenance. In retrospect, it
might have been helpful if the Credit documents had required the Government
to provide fixed annual target allocations for the maintenance program to
be reviewed and updated in accordance with the findings of consultants.
Instead the Credit documents contained only the standard covenant requiring
Government to provide local funds for the project and take all necessary
action to implement the road betterment/maintenace programs. This
situation was partly corrected under the Second Highway Project which
requires Government to provide recurrent funds for routine maintenance in
accordance with targets established by the updated maintenance program.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A.   Project Description
3.01      The project consisted of the following:
(a)  Consulting services for:
(i) preparing and assisting in implementing
1973-78 program for highway betterment
and maintenance;
(ii) assisting in the procurement of spare
parts, equipment, and materials and sup-
plies;
(iii) assisting on emergency rehabilitation of
existing maintenance equipment;
(iv) reviewing the existing DOR organization
and operations and recommending improve-
ments; and determining the training needs
of highway staff at all levels and pre-
paring training programs;
(v) identifying high priority road construc-
tion projects and developing design stan-
dards;
(vi)  preparing traffic regulations and recom-
mending an appropriate organization to
enforce them; and
(vii) establishing a program for collecting
traffic data.



-5-
(b)  procurement of maintenance, workshop and soils lahora-
tory equipment and tools, spare'parts for rehabilita-
tion of existing equipment, and materials and suDplies;
(c)  preinvestment studies, including feasibility studies of
about 500 km of roads identified under (a)(v) above and
detailed engineering of about 350 km of the high
priority roads; and
(d)  technical assistance consisting of two transport
experts to assist MOT for about two years in transport
planning and coordination, short-term expert services
to MOT for a comparative study of oil transport by rail
and by pipeline.
B.   First Phase of Consultancy Services
3.02      US Consultants were employed in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines to initially carry out comprehensive studies to establish road
betterment and maintenance programs and to identify high priority road for
expansion of the transport network.   The consultants compiled two reports:
(a) Road Maintenance Program and (b) Highway Design, Construction and
Financing. They also prepared four sets of bidding documents for
procurement.
3.03      Progress of the study was good, particularly in light of the
country's vastness and the very difficult communications with the Southern
Region. Draft final reports were submitted in early November 1973, about
12 months after the consultants started work, but comments took longer than
expected and final documents were issued in mid-April 1974.   Quality of the
consultants' work was satisfactory'and their reports have provided the
basis for most subsequent activities in the highway subsector in Sudan.
Main items of the study are discussed below.
3.04      Two.programs were established for the periods FYs 1974-79; one
for the maintenance of paved roads in the Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor
(Tables 3.01 and 3.03), where all of the country's paved roads are
locatedl/,, and another for the rehabilitation and maintenance of gravel
roads in the Southern Region (Tables 3.02 and 3.03), where most of the
country's gravel roads are located. The programs were comprehensive and
detailed and included annual requirements for manpower, equipment, major
materials and financing.
1/   Apart from the relatively short lengths of paved roads in the
Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor and a few gravel roads in the west, all
roads in the arid and semi-arid northern part of the country are earth
tracks formed according to the needs of the traffic; when such a track
becomes corrugated a new parallel track is formed. Very little
maintenance is required nor is it carried out.



-6-
3.05      At the time of appraisal, several ministries were being
reorganized; as a result in August 1973 DOR became the semi-autonomous
Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) under the Ministry of Transport
with 26 professional staff and about a dozen technicians. The study recom-
mended reorganization of RBPC along more functional lines with four main
departments for planning, engineering, operations and administration and
called for improvements in most aspects of management and operations. The
consultants recommended 192 man-months of technical assistance to help
implement the study's recommendations and to train personnel in accordance
with the needs of the reorganized RBPC (a training program was included).
They also recommended that roads in the Southern Region be the responsibi-
lity of a regional department under RBPC and presented a departmental
structure and functions.
3.06      Four sets of complete bidding documents, including sDecifica-
tions, were prepared for the procurement of:  (a) spare parts for emergency
rehabilitation of existing equipment; (b) new maintenance equipment; (c)
workshop equipment, tools and supplies; and (d) soils and materials labora-
tory equipment. The consultants submitted the first draft procurement
documents in May 1973 but final documents were not issued until January to
April 1974. Delays in the preparation of documents were caused by the
Government's unfamiliarity with procurement in general and Bank Group's
requirements in particular. In addition the Government was reluctant to
comply with Credit Agreement conditions; for example, during preparation of
documents the Government proposed boycotting some Bank member countries and
subsequently the office of the Attorney-General wanted all general condi-
tions of procurement contracts rewritten. In the end, however, all Bank
Group requirements were complied with.
3.07      On the basis of their road inventories and traffic counts on a
large part of the road network, the consultants carried out a basic econo-
mic evaluation of 22 roads and road sections (about 2,000 km) and ranked
these sections in priority order.  The analyses have been used to date to
select roads for feasibility and engineering studies.
3.08      As a part of the above exercise the consultants established a
road classification system for all of Sudan and presented geometric design
and construction standards for the main and secondary roads. They also
recommended necessary traffic and road-user regulations and prepared a
traffic census system and a program of data collection and analysis.
3.09      After analysing the capital and recurrent budgetary requirements
for Sudan's highway network and recognizing the economic situation con-
straining such budgetary allocations, the consultants recommended estab-
lishing a highway fund, financed from road-user charges (licence and regis-
tration fees and fuel taxes), that would at the very least be sufficient to
finance road maintenance (see para. 3.25).
C. Procurement
3.10      Procurement of spare parts, equipment and materials was a prere-
quisite to the Government's implementation of the betterment and mainte-



-7-
nance programs. However, several factors severely slowed implementation of
these programs.  In addition to problems encountered during preparation of
procurement documents, the Government's procurement regulations are
extremely cumbersome and the time from receipt of hids or quotations until
acceptance and issuing of letters of credit can be up to eight months,
often exceeding validity periods of bids and quotations by up to five
months. In addition to causing obvious delays, these procedures result in
potential suppliers frequently losing interest in bidding or quoting prices
to customers in Sudan. Compounding procurement delays is the congestion
and inefficient freight handling at Port Sudan and the Sudan Railways'
freight backlog. Thus, freight destined for Khartoum may be delayed at
Port Sudan for 6-12 months.' Deliveries from Khartoum to the Southern
Region suffer still further delays of up to 18 months:' low railway capa-
city and backlog of freight, and extremely inefficient river transport ser-
vices compounded by draft limitations for barges in the Sudd area during
the dry season.
3.11      RBPC's and the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Roads' (SRMCTR) existing equipment fleets for road
rehabilitation/maintenance were severely hampered by lack,of spare parts
due to the country's shortage of foreign exchange. The project was to
provide for procurement of spare parts in two lots: first, for quickly
identifiable parts for minor repairs and second, for overhauling when major
disassembling of equipment was required. Procurement of the first lot
began in January 1974 after IDA's approval of documents. As stipulated in
the Credit Agreement,'local'agents of manufacturers were approached for
quotations.  A few agents ignored the request for quotations,    some quota-
tions submitted were incomplete and some rejected various contractual con-
ditions, including breakdown of quotations into foreign and local currency,
and the fast changing`price environment of 1973/74 resulted in agents
neither quoting firm prices nor firm delivery dates. These uncertainties
prompted RBPC to abandon local shopping and, late October 1974, requesting
IDA's permission to procure from-specialized spare parts suppliers or
manufacturers, which was promptly granted. However, complications
developed through non-compliance with Bank Group guidelines (on
notification and advertising) an'd procurement of the first lot'was
subsequently abandoned altogether.
3.12      In October 1975, RBPC requested IDA's permission to commission
consultants to undertake the procurement of the second lot of spares.    InA
approved in principle, but complications developed again regarding
notification and advertising procedures, causing further delays.    By
mid-1976 it became obvious that the list of spares established in 1973 was
outdated and new'lists were gradually assembled with the assistance of an
expert under the,technical assistance.   The first lists were completed in
May 1977. 'IDA succeeded in convincing the Government to simplify its
procurement procedures considerably, but only for procurement of spare
parts up to an amount of US$0.5 million. Procurement progressed slowly,
but without further problems. The first lot arrived in May 1978 and deli-
veries continued until the Credit was closed on June 30, 1980.
3.13      On the basis of documents prepared under the consultants' study,
bids were invited in late 1974 under ICB procedures for the procurement of
(a) maintenance equipment; (b) workshop equipment, tools and supplies; and



-8-
(c) soils and materials laboratory equipment. Procurement progress was
slow but without problems, but delays were encountered for some categories
because of incomplete or unresponsive bids and new bids had to be called.
Equipment started to arrive at Port Sudan in late 1975 and in Khartoum in
mid-1976 but due to problems outlined in para. 3.10, deliveries to Khartoum
were not completed until end of 1978.
3.14      Deliveries of equipment from Khartoum to the Southern Region were
extremely difficult because of the transport problems and also because of
strained relations between RBPC and SRMCTR. Deliveries started in 1976 and
were completed in 1979.
D. Second Phase of Consultancy Services and Government's Compliance with
Recommendations of the First Phase Studies
Technical Assistance
3.15      The seven technical experts recommended in the consultants' study
for improving management, engineering and planning and for training of pro-
fessionals were not recruited. The reasons were mostly financial as cost
overruns were being experienced on other components and also because a
highway project financed by the Arab and Kuwait Funds, which started in
1977, included funds for such technical assistance. However, although RBPC
established a contract with US/Danish consultants in 1979, this technical
assistance has not materialized, because of the consultants' work activi-
ties in a country with which the member countries of the financing agencies
prohibit relations. This assistance is being considered for a proposed
Third Highway Project, presently scheduled as a FY83 project.
3.16      The consultants' study contract was extended to cover about 24
man-months of technical assistance in 1973/1974 to prepare procurement but
due to delays in procurement and deliveries of spares and equipment, fur-
ther technical assistance was delayed until September 1976 when a contract
for 93 man-months of technical assistance was signed. In November 1976 a
master operator and a master mechanic were provided by the consultants,
both for about 30 months. The master operator trained about 200 heavy-
equipment operators at RBPC's main workshop and in the field. The master
mechanic reorganized the functions and operation of the main workshop,
assisted in the procurement of spare parts and trained about 20 of RBPC's
best mechanics. In September 1977 a laboratory specialist was provided for
about 13 months. Following his advice the soils and materials laboratory
was moved from RBPC's headquarters to a rehabilitated accommodation at the
main workshop area where the new and existing equipment was set up. He
also trained about 20 RBPC staff in testing procedures and operation of the
laboratory which now carries out all soils and materials testing for road
projects in Sudan, some of which previously had to be done overseas.
3.17      In April 1977, a road supervisor was provided for SRMCTR for 24
man-months, but owing to conditions in the Southern Region, he could only
be retained for about four months. The constant lack of fuel, spare parts



-9-
and local funds render operations very difficult and inefficient. Living
conditions are also extremely difficult as no accommodations are available,
provision of food is problematic and medical and health facilities are
deficient. Bilateral aid agencies active in the South and multilateral
agencies, including the Bank, active in other sectors, provide for neces-
sary facilities and services for their staff; they also import their own
supplies of fuel and spare parts and provide funds for all of their opera-
tions with little or no reliance on local funds.   The operational problems
and the living conditions encountered in the South were taken into account
in the design of the Second Highway Project (para. 5.04).
3.18      As part of the technical assistance contract of September 1q76,
a highway maintenance engineer and a traffic census specialist in June 1978
began training an engineer and 12 other staff in counting procedures and
analysis of data. On the basis of data collected, the highway maintenance
engineer revised2/ the maintenance program for RBPC prepared by
consultants in 1974 and established a rolling 4-year program which is being
used and updated by RBPC.
3.19      The individual experts provided by the consultants were well qua-
lified and motivated and on good terms with local officials and
counterparts. Although in some instances hampered by operational and fis-
cal constraints, the technical assistance was in general effective and has
had significant and lasting impact on operational capacity and efficiency.
Reorganization of RBPC
3.20      The recommendations of the consultants' report of 1974 were
gradually adopted and by the end of 1975, key posts had been filled with
competent local staff and about 50 professionals were employed (about two
thirds of established posts); management improved considerably. Since late
1975, however, RBPC's managerial and technical capacity has gradually
deteriorated, mostly as a result of emigration of qualified local staff
(mostly engineers) to the rich, oil-producing Arab countries where salaries
are several times higher than in Sudan. Turn-over of professional staff is
very high and now less than half of professional posts are filled; most key
posts have been vacated at least once, resulting in reshuffling of staff,
untimely promotions and in some cases combination of key posts. Emigration
of technical and managerial staff is common to all sectors in Sudan and it
is difficult to predict if and when the trend can be reversed.   Technical
assistance to RBPC is being considered under the proposed Third Highway
Project (para. 3.14).
3.21      Under the Addis Ababa Accord of 1972, which brought peace to the
Sudan after 17 years of civil war, the SRMCTR took over jurisdiction of all
roads in the region. The Regional Government structure was not in place
2/   In view of new traffic counts, significant price increases and paved
roads development which was in some instance inconsistent with the
development plan of 1973 as well as in view of actual maintenance
activities 1974-79.



-10
until 1973/74 and SRMCTR's organization is still in its infant stages with
few qualified managers and inadequate operational capacity; these deficien-
cies were not fully identified until 1976 during supervision of the pro-
ject.  The recommendation of the consultants' report of 1974 that roads in
the region should be the responsibility of a regional department under
RBPC(para. 3.05), may be feasible in theory, hut the virtual autonomy of
the Regional Government which emerged, prevented such arrangement; SRMCTR
has maintained its jurisdiction, and relations with RBPC have been
strained. The Second Highway Project provides technical assistance to
SRMCTR to strengthen its organization and operations.
Betterment and Maintenance Programs
3.22      The maintenance program for paved roads (Tables 3.01 and 3.03)
was based on an optimistic plan for the construction of these roads; pro-
gress was much slower than planned as shown in the table below which com-
pares the original program for the period 1975/76 to 1980/81 with actual
growth of the paved roads that should have been maintained and the lengths
of roads actually maintained by RBPC each year.
Length of Paved Roads
to be Maintained            Actually
Consultants                   Maintained
Estimate        Actual        by RBPC
Year            (km)           (km)          (km)
1975/76        314             314           222
1976/77        735             407           29Q
1977/78        763             615           543
1978/79      1,558             830           770
1979/80      2,173             900           830
1980/81      2,393           1,330 a/      1,100
a/   The 230 km Wad Medani Gedaref road is being maintained by the People's
Republic of China and about 170 km are still under maintenance by
contractors.
Source: Road Maintenance Program, 1974; RBPC, 1981
Maintenance of the paved network was only partially implemented during the
project period because of long delays in procurement of spare parts, equip-
ment and materials but mostly because of the shortage of recurrent funds.
Implementation of the program started in 1975/76 when RBPC's maintenance
operations began improving because of increased capacity provided by new
equipment and spare parts, greatly increased operational efficiency through
training of staff and higher equipment availability resulting in improved
utilization of equipment and manpower; however, because of limited
recurrent funds, performance was less than satisfactory.



-11
3.23      Routine maintenance was generally carried out to an acceptable
level but periodic maintenance was lacking on substantial parts of the net-
work, resulting in the all too common vicious circle of underfunded mainte-
nance: asphalt concrete overlays were required where resealing would have
been adequate one or two years earlier with the more expensive works making
the shortage of funds still more severe.   However, in no instance was dete-
rioration allowed to reach the stage where reconstruction would be neces-
sary. Fully satisfactory implementation of routine maintenance began in
FY81, when recurrent funds were made available as required under the Second
Highway Project.  By that time the length of paved roads had increased from
about 330 km at appraisal of the project in 1971 to about 1,500 km. The
consultants' original maintenance program was revised in 1979 and was
coverted into a rolling 4-year routine maintenance program (para. 3.18)
which is being carried out by RBPC. Lack of funds, however, still prevents
satisfactory implementation of periodic maintenance.
3.24      Rehabilitation and maintenance of the gravel roads in the
Southern Region started on a large scale in 1975 in accordance with the
consultants' program of 1974 (Tables 3.02 and 3.03) and financed by
bilateral aid from the Federal Republic of Germany (GER), the Dutch
Government, CIDA/IJNDP and the Norwegian Church Relief; this assistance is
continuing. For proper utilization, and as recommended by the consultants,
equipment and technical assistants provided under the Droject should have
been assigned in operational units to specific and clearly defined
rehabilitation/maintenance projects supervised by SRMCTR personnel with
assistance from technical experts provided under the project. Due to
operational difficulties (para. 3.17), however, the equipment was dispersed
to the various rehabilitation project entities active in the South and its
operation and maintenance financed under these projects; while not exactly
conforming to project criteria the equipment was effectively used for
priority projects as defined by the consultants.
Highway Fund
3.25      Government paid little attention to the consultants' recommenda-
tion for establishing a highway fund (para. 3.09), but in 1978 the Ministry
of National Planning carried out their own study of road-user charges and
recommended the setting up of a toll system (not considered by the consul-
tants) with revenues accruing to a road maintenance fund. This system went
into effect in early 1981, but the use of revenues has still not been
decided. IDA's supervision missions have expressed reservations on such a
system and advised that a full analysis of costs and benefits would be
desirable before expanding the system.
E. Preinvestment Studies
3.26      The three highest priority roads identified in the consultants'
study of 1974 (total length of 590 km) were selected for feasibility stu-
dies, the terms of reference for which were provided by IDA. RBPC short-



-12
listed five consulting firms, evaluated their proposals and negotiated a
contract with a French consultant in January 1975. Due to extensive and
substantive comments from Government and IDA requiring further input and
some revisions3/, the final reports were not submitted until June 1976.
The feasibility studies found the construction of two roads, the Sennar-
Damazine (288 km) and the Jebel Aulia-Rabak (267 km) road, economically
justified, but the construction of the third road (Ed Dueim-Dubeihat) was
found to be justified only after 1982. Consultants' work was satisfactory,
but only marginally so.
3.27      RBPC, with IDA's agreement, shortlisted four consulting firms,
evaluated their proposals and, in September 1976, negotiated a contract for
the detailed engineering of the Sennar-Damazine and the Jebel Aulia-Rabak
roads with a joint venture of two of the firms in September 1976. As all
Credit funds had by that time been either disbursed or committed, the
financing of these studies was by mutual agreement deleted from the pro-
ject, but IDA agreed to retroactively finance the studies under the Second
Highway Project. The studies progressed very well and were completed in
one year. Quality of work was satisfactory.
F. Technical Assistance for Ministry of Transport
3.28      The intention was to recruit two transport experts for about two
years to assist in planning and coordinating transport investment and to
have qualified consultants carry out a comparative study of oil transport
by rail and by pipeline. MOT's early efforts to employ consultants failed
because of unsatisfactory response from consulting firms (only one firm
submitted a responsible proposal and was subsequently unable to provide
experts required). The Ministry proposed in 1975 that this component be
deleted from the project and that UNDP be approached to provide the techni-
cal assistance. UNDP agreed, but long negotiations and search for suitable
candidates resulted in the first transport expert not being employed until
October 1976 and the second some time in 1978. Credit funds for this com-
ponent were reallocated in April 1976 (para. 3.31).
G. Implementation Schedule
3.29      The appraisal estimate for project implementation was grossly
over-optimistic: 3.5 years instead of the actual 7.5 years. The report
did not present a detailed implementation schedule but a few milestones
were provided. These are compared to final implementation in Table 3.05.
Delays were encountered on most components; starting dates particularly
3/   The consultants' traffic forecasts were partly based on the assumption
that rail transport, then the main transport mode, would decline while
road transport would increase significantly. IDA rejected this
assumption as unfounded because of ongoing projects to improve the
infrastructure and operations of the railways and the consultants
revised traffic forecasts accordingly. However, the consultants'
assumption has proved to be right (Table 3.04); rail transport has not
only declined in relative terms but also in absolute terms.



-13
slipped. While delays could be expected in implementing the first major
road project in the country, some of the contributing factors could have
been taken into account at appraisal, for instance:
(a) the generally weak management capabilities in the
Sudan;
(b) the executing agency was being formed at the time of
appraisal and was to be reorganized under the project;
(c) executing staff were unfamiliar with Bank Group
procedures for procurement, which formed a large part
of the project and was a prerequisite for
implementation of the betterment and maintenance
programs;
(d) the Government's cumbersome procurement procedures;
(e) the very long delivery times (supplier-Port
Sudan-Khartoum and for some items from Khartoum to
Juba); and
(f) the precarious economic situation resulting in lack of
local as well as foreign funds for project
implementation.
Other reasons for delays were the deteriorating management capacity of RBPC
and the division of responsibilities between RBPC and SRMCTR and the
subsequent strained relationship between the agencies.
H. Costs and Disbursements
Cost Estimates
3.30      The total cost of the project was US$12.0 million as against the
appraisal estimate of US$10.90 million (Table 3.05). However, the scope of
the project was reduced to keep costs within available funds. Cost
increases, the result of the severe worldwide price increases of 1973-75
and delays in procurement, were particularly high for equipment and for
consultancy services in the later stages of the project.
Reallocation of Credit Funds
3.31      Due to cost increases and the deletion of detailed engineering
studies and the technical assistance for MOT, Credit funds were reallocated
in April 1976 (Table 3.06).   At the same time the requirement of the Credit
Agreement for only local competitive bidding or quotations from local sup-
pliers for the procurement of spare parts was extended to cover quotations
from foreign suppliers.



-14
Disbursements
3.32      Disbursements for all components were slower than anticipated at
appraisal owing to implementation delays outlined in above paragraphs
(Table 3.07). At the time of the Credit closing on June 30, 1980, the
undisbursed amount of the Credit funds, TJSS223,673, was cancelled.
I. Progress Reporting
3.33      Consultants employed under the project reported progress on
studies and technical assistance regularly as required. No other reporting
was required or requested.
J. Covenants
3.34      The Credit Agreement for the project included covenants requiring
Government to:
(a) employ consultants acceptable to and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b) institute a program for the collection of traffic data
and technical, economic and financial information for
the proper planning of highway investments;
(c) prepare programs for the adequate betterment and
maintenance of Sudan's road network
(d) prepare a program for the training of RBPC's staff;
(e) establish central and field facilities for the
implementation of (c) and (d);
(f) take all necessary action to implement programs in (c)
and (d);
(g) cause all roads included in the project4/to be
adequately maintained and provide funds and resources
necessary for that purpose;
(h) cause all goods and services financed under the Credit
to be used exclusively for the project e
4/   As only those roads included in the betterment and maintenance pro-
grams can be viewed as included in the project, there is overlapping
between (f) and (g).



-15
(M)  take measures (including legislation) to regulate
road traffic and for the adequate enforcement of
regulations;
(j)  adopt adequate design standards for roads;
(k)  agree with Association on roads selected for
feasibility studies; and
(1)  agree with Association on roads selected for detailed
engineering following completion of feasibility
studies.
3.35      There was general compliance with covenants except for the ade-
quate maintenance of roads and partly for the exclusive use of goods for
the project (para. 3.36).  Estimated costs of the maintenance programs for
RBPC are compared to actual expenditures in Table 3.08. Expenditures were
consistently lower than estimated, reflecting the strained economic situa-
tion. Even though a side letter to the Credit Agreement of the Second
Highway Project specifies annual amounts for maintenance, these are only
for routine maintenance which is being adequately funded in 19f0/81 while
periodic maintenance still suffers from lack of funds. Estimated costs of
the rehabilitation and maintenance program for gravel roads in the Sou-
thern Region are shown in Table 3.09. Comparison with actual expenditures
during the project period is not feasible as these expenditures, incurred
by bilaterally financed rehabilitation/maintenance units, have not been
made available to IDA in spite of repeated requests to SRMCTR.
3.36      There were instances when RBPC diverted road maintenance equip-
ment, procured under the project, to unrelated works; these instances were,
however, not significant enough to jeopardize the carrying out of RBPC's
road maintenance activities. Most of the equipment procured for SRMCTR
under the project was used on activities included in the rehabilitation and
maintenance programs; while these activities were financed and carried out
by bilateral agencies and thus outside IDA's auspices, they directly bene-
fitted the Southern Region and fulfilled project objectives.
IV. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Road Maintenance Program
4.01      At the time of appraisal, the road maintenance program was not
defined and the economic rate of return (ERR) of this project component was
indicative only. On the basis of broad assumptions, the ERR in the
Appraisal Report was 32%.
4.02      The road maintenance program was carried out on the paved roads
in the Northern Region5/ and on gravel roads in the Southern Region. The
5/   Except for about 400 km which are maintained under different
arrangements.



-16
information available permitted economic re-evaluation of the program in
the Northern Region only.   The road maintenance program (1975/76-1979/80)
covered at the beginning less than 300 km per year and increased gradually
to 1,100 km. The program included routine maintenance with periodic main-
tenance of part of the network. However, no precise data on actual
achievements per road sections was available. Therefore, for that and
other reasons (para. 4.03) the results of the economic re-evaluation should
still be considered as indicative only.
4.03      The program for paved roads in the Northern Region has been
reevaluated using the following available information: the actual capital
and recurrent expenditures in the period 1975/76-1980/81, some updated data
on traffic levels, updated vehicle operating costs (voc) based on a study
carried out by consultants in 1977, and actual lengths of roads included in
the program (Table 4.01). The analysis was done in mid-1978 prices and, on
the basis of road maintenance equipment life, an eight7year economic life
of the program was assumed.
4.04      The reevaluated ERR is 38%, slightly higher than the one calcu-
lated at the appraisal (32%).   Had the unit savings in voc materialized as
estimated in the Appraisal Report (20-40%) the actual ERR would have been
substantially higher, since the traffic volumes and the traffic growth (7%
per annum instead of 5% at appraisal) were considerably underestimated in
the Appraisal Report. The actual unit savings in voc have now been esti-
mated at about 5-10%, mainly due to a substantial decrease in recurrent
funding of road maintenance operations which did not permit the program to
be fully implemented. If adequate recurrent funds had been available, unit
savings in voc would have been at least twice as high and the ERR would
have been substantially higher. Nevertheless, the reevaluated ERR is suf-
ficiently high to demonstrate that the investments made in the program were
still justified. Table 4.01 presents the data used in the economic reeva-
luation as well as the underlying assumptions.
4.05      The reevaluated ERR was based on data which could not always be
considered reliable (average traffic volumes on the road included in the
program, level of voc in 1978, etc.). Therefore, a sensitivity analysis
was carried out asuming a reduction of benefits (savings in voc) hy 25%.
Even under this assumption the road maintenance program would have been
justified since it yields an ERR of about 24%.   In conclusion, it should be
noted that the economic life of the program is not yet over and that the
actual ERR for the program is therefore not yet final. At this stage,
however, it could be conservatively assessed that the actual ERR for the
program is most likely between 24%-38%.
4.06      An evaluation of the actual ERR for the rehabilitation/mainte-
nance works on gravel roads in the Southern Region, mostly financed by
bilateral agencies, and a comparison with the appraisal estimate and the
consultants' maintenance program, is not feasible at this stage as no data
are yet available on physical output and associated expenditures, traffic
volumes and growth or operating costs for the various classes of vehicles.
Technical assistance provided under the Second Highway Project will assist
SRMCTR in setting up adequate procedures for collecting such data.



-17
Feasibility Studies, Detailed Engineering, Technical Assistance and
Training
4.07      These components effectively assist the Government by identifying
high priority investment projects in the transport sector, preparing high-
way projects suitable for further lending by external agencies, and build-
ing up the required highway maintenance capability.   It would have been
very difficult to quantify the benefits of these components; they were not
quantified in the Appraisal Report and no attempt has been made to quantify
them in the reevaluation.
V. CONCLUSION
A. Performance of the Borrower
5.01      The performance of the Borrower's executing agency, the RBPC of
the MOT, was generally satisfactory. It took appropriate, although often
delayed, action to resolve problems as they arose. The areas in which the
Borrower performed less satisfactorily were: (a) procurement: (i) occa-
sional reluctance to abide by Bank Group requirements (para. 3.06); and
(ii) the extremely cumbersome procedures, in many cases resulting in long
delays (para. 3.10)6/; (b) insufficient provision of recurrent funds for
the execution of maintenance programs (para. 3.22); (c) minor diversions of
maintenance equipment to unrelated works (para. 3.36); and (d) the strained
relationship with SRMCTR (para. 3.21).
B. Performance of the Association
5.02      In retrospect, the appraisal process concentrated on the right
issues, but a more realistic implementation schedule should have been
established. The Association's definition of covenants was mostly appro-
priate, although a more clearly defined requirement of local funds for
maintenance might have resulted in more funds being made available. The
project was adequately supervised; prompt assistance and advice given bv
the Association and followed by the Government resulted in general ful-
fillment of the project objectives.
C. Performance of Consultants
5.03      Performance of consultants was in most cases very good; studies
carried out and technical assistance provided have had a lasting impact on
RBPC's administration and operations. The only exception was the carrying
out of the feasibility studies where the performance of the French consul-
tant was only marginally satisfactory (para. 3.26).
6/ This problem is being addressed under the recently approved Second
Technical Assistance Project.



-18
D. Lessons Learned
5.04      The main lessons learned concern the conditions in the Southern
Region (para. 3.17) and the strained relations between RBPC and SRMCTR.
These lessons were taken into account in designing the Second Highway
Project by having SRMCTR execute the technical assistance component
provided to the Southern Region under the project which includes:
(i) about 270 man-months of technical assistance to strengthen the organi-
zation and operations of SRMCTR's Road Department; (ii) residential
housing, vehicles and support services for the technical assistance; (iii)
workshops and offices; (iv) some key items of maintenance equipment; (v)
spare parts for existing equipment, and (vi) fuel on an incremental but
declining basis.



Annex I
- 19 -
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sources of Information
1.   Bank Project Files - First Highway Project, Credit 331-STJ
2.   Bank Project Files - Second Highway Project, Credit 882-SU
3.   Contract Documents for Consulting Services and Procurement
4.   Quarterly Reports on Progress of Consulting Services
5.   Road Maintenance Program, US Consultant, 1974
6.   Highway Design Construction and Financing, US Consultant, 1974
7.   Highway Feasibility Study, French Consultant, 1976
8.   Detailed Engineering Study, US/Danish Consultants, 1978
9.   Road Maintenance Program Revision, US Consultant, 1979
10. Traffic Census System, US Consultant, 1979
11. Transport Statistical Bulletin, 1974-79, Ministry of National Planning
12. Road and Road Transport Performance Review, Ministry of National
Planning, 1980
13. Information from Roads and Bridges Public Corporation, 1980-81
14. Appraisal Report and Credit Agreement
15.  Staff Appraisal Report (1978), Second Highway Project, Credit 882-SU
June 1981



SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROT9CT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Consultants Maintenance Program for Paved Roads in Northern Part of Country
ANNUAL MAINTENANCE WORKLOAOI NORTHERN PROVINCnS 1373/n4 TO 1i7W7
AC Surfce (kim)                                       DBST (k-0
Road                      Len5th  AOT        73/74  74/75  75/76  76/77  7717E  73,79  79/e7  80/61  73/74  74/75  75/76 7,!7, 7,7i78  7"79  7V'?E  eCSl
hrtw.>.Wa MWJani               1So   100iO1200 70        00    115    S5;   133   10S3   136    186   1 141  10t   71     30     G      0     0      0
KhW.ou-rUJ'-!I AuIia           as    600-8QO        0     0      0     0      0    35     35    35    35 33          35   35    35      0     0      0
Khiourr NJEI Geaii             42    600e800        0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     42    4?     42    42    42     42    42     42
Omaurme'NW.di SelC.             22   GO0-8C0        0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0     22    22     22-   22     22    22     22    22
Y,;ad M?.;-:;8!ci.st ;5              600-800        0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0     15    15     15- tis 1    5      ;5    15    15
bl Ahai RdJICK&a1k14             6    200 430       0      G     0      0     0      0     0      0     6      6     6     6      6     6      6     6
Ger,if EWtJH;fl.t              17    200-400       O      0      0     0      0     0      0     0     8      8     8      8  .8        8     8      S       O
Y Leti'i.'0ibeit.at      lie     200-400       .                   0     0      0     0     0                        1S6   185    186   18     1851
orV?1ad M.eani               *27     403-Cr-          -         -                   0     0      0                                    2177  217    217
*Sad Med3niVGado,if            235   400600                            C     0      0     0      0                       235    235   235   235    2:3
G9dzrf/Kr,aa                   220   '-00-600       .     .      .                               0            -     -                              220
KXseIVH*iya                    350   200403         .                               0      0     0            -                       3SO    350   350
4a;ya/Port Sudan               206   2i.X;4C0       ,     .                                   - 0 0           .                         -    206   .C5
SumnmitErkit                    34   20             .     .                                0                  .                         0     34    34
Srn-wrlpou'..M               '*3;0   100-1200                1 -  -           -    350   350    350                 -                   o     a      0
21 Ob ;e3ibe:b6t               131   20Q400         -0                              0      0     0 "                    -        28   131    131   131
El OCt.d/Umm Rwwahe            U2    200400     1                             -           @ O    O  |  _                                     52 U    2
w toreedsid. dilti_
Source:     Consultants'report:         Road Maintenance Program,          1974.                                                                           |
I/   Estimated workload is heavier than actual,                as development of paved roads was slower than planned.
June 1981



- 21 -                                      TABLE 3.02
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Consultants Rehabilitation/Maintenance Program for
Gravel Roads in the Southern Region
ANNUAL MAINTENANCE WORKLOAD - SOUTHERN REGION 1973/74 TO 1973/7f.
LATERITIC (krn)                           EARTH 1km)
ADT
Ro.d          L=.h    ADT   Group   73/74 74n5 75/76 76r7 77t78 76/79     73/74 74t75 76/76  76/77 77/78 72/79
Ju'!krm 24     24      6S   50-100   24    24    24    24    24    24       0     0     0                 C O  C
km 241Nimule   '6s    30    25-50   1e    168   166   163   168    ta183    0     0     0     0     i     0
Ju;V/L~~ar    ,10     60    S0-1GO   110  110    1'0  110    110   110      O     O                 0     0
LarmiwYel      43     ''    60^tOO   42    '3    43    43    43    4i       a 0   0     0     0     0
7:8     20   25.50.    0     o     02   297   512   7343  1738    73t,  654   430   224
Source: Consultants report: Road Maintenance Program, 1974.
June 1981



- 22 -
TABLE 3.03
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Consultants Maintenance/Rehabilitation Programs
l:MM;ARY OF A;N:NUAL K.'A 'TEWA-,Z WORCLOAD BY CLASS
_,A C.-,  D        7^74   7 .r17  ' 17Si  77777  7 7,r  7M79  79!29  BC ci
Nortih-n R-n
A'^           I 0-1c35-2o          45     co    115    150   1S6    221    221    221
A^                        Y,15cd223   0   0      0            0    <5D     3 J    5^
CzSST                             1       C S-  7X1  -  3      0      0     0      0
iV-ST         62, '5.     *       1t'    4 1    114    114    11$    7rJ   7D      79
Z S7         4CS-'-f,    X        -             -     235   235    225    432    672
e4     14     14     14    42     4S5 235
S ST               .~~~~X    *            *            *.2'E5 .~IS          S
TOTi.L L [GTG                     _'4    3:14   314    723,   733  1, 53  2.173  .3935
3authorn Rwiorb
LeU-tne        55-100     X       177    177   .77    177    177    '77
I,-.rit.s   2_ S   .X      1SS     li3   250    45     E-^0   SC-
2.5-S:0    X     _ 738   73i    654     43`   224      0
Source: Consultants report: Road Maintenance Program, 1974.
June 1981



- 23 -                   Table 3.04
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-EU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Transport Volumes
1969/70                                   1976/77
Freight          Passengers               Freight         Passengers
Ton-km             Pass-km                Ton-km            Pass-km
Mode      billion     %      billion    %           billion    %      billion     %
Road        0.92      25       3.48     74            2.97     54       6.00      76
Rail        2.70      73       1.01     22            2.42     44       1.29      16
River       0.08       2       0.07      1            0.09      2       0.07       1
Air       Insigni-     -       0.13      3            0.01      -       0.56       7
cant                        _
3.70     100       4.69    100            5.49    100       7.92     100
Source: Road and Road Transport Performance Review, Ministry of National
Planning, Khartoum 1980.
June 1981



SUDAN
FIRST 111011WAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-sU
l'ROJECT COtIPLETION REPORT
Expected and Actual Project Implementation and Costs
lmplementatlon                                     Costs (In USS '000)                      of      lompeTion          Final
rlanned at Appraisal         Actual           Appraisal   Orlgtnal    ActuAl oni   Foreign ExchanRe       by Expected           Di btirsement
Froject Item                  Start    Complete     Start   Complete      Estimate    Contract   Completion      on Completion       Completlon Date           US$ '000
A.   Consulting Services to Rgat
1.  Reorganization and
identificatton study            9/72        9/73      11/72     5/74 )           00        615         616              503                  90                    503
2.  Technical assistance            6/73         6/75      8/73    12/79 )        1,2          616         623               514                  20                   514
3.  Feasthility studies             9/73         n.A.      2/75     6/i6 )                      859        716               576                 n.a.                   576
4.  Det. engineering                                                      )       1,130)
studile                         9/713        n.a.      9/76     3/178 )                   1,288      1,411             1,072                 n.a.                    U
B.   Procurement
1.  Spare pArts                     n.a.         n.a.      6/78     6/80          1,000        n.a.        784               431                 n.s.                  431
2.  Neu equtpment                   3/73         2/175 )  11/74     6/78          5,000         n.a.     6,980             4,531 )                                   4,53710
3.  Haterisls                       n.a.         n.s. )                             800         n.A.       308               200 )                I                     200
C.   Technical Assistance to                                                                                  about             about
Tltntatry of Transport              3/73         3/75      9/76      9/80           SOO         n.s.       550               400                   0                     15
Contingencies          1.210                                                                              6,77
Ca-celled              224
Totals            10.900                 11 994            8.233                                      7000
Source: Appraisal Report, July 17, 1977; RBItC 1981; EAP Files; Controller's Department
June 1981
H
0n



SIJOAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Withdrawal of Credit Proceeds
Credit Agreement   Revised Credit    Actual With-
Category                          Allocations        Allocations      drawals
I.   Consultants' Services
(a) for the improvement of the
organization and operation of
the Department of Roads and for
technical assistance for imple-
mentation of betterment and main-
tenance programs                      900,000            875,noo      1,017,852.52
(b) for feasibility and detailed
engineering studies                   900,000            57n,non        575,959.16
(c) for technical assistance to
the Ministry of Transport             40n,n00             15,0nn         14,591.40
II.  Spare parts, equipment, materials       4,noo,000          5,540,000      5,167,923.91
and supplies
III. Unallocated                               800,000                -                 -
Total        7,000,000           7,000,000      6,776,326.99
Cancelled        223,673.nl
Total          7,000,000.00
Source:  Credit Agreement, September 29, 1972; Controller's Department
0
June 1981



- 26 -
SIJDAN                         Table 3.07
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements as of September 30, 1980
ACCUMULATED DISBURSEMENTS IN THOUSANDS
OF US DOLLAR EQUIVALENT
FISCAL                                                    ACTIJAL DISBURSE-
YEAR AND        ACTUAL TOTAL            APPRAISAL          MENTS AS A . OF
QUARTER          DISBURSEMENT           ESTIMATE          APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
1                     2                     3
1972/73
1st                                         105
2iid                                        315
3rd                    15                   745                    2
4th                   252                 1,075                   23
1973/74
1st                   252                 1,320                   19
2nd                   349                 2,235                   16
3rd                   425                 2,780                   15
4th                   425                 3,085                   14
1974/75
1st                   425                 4,150                   10
2nd                   500                 4,300                   12
3rd                   640                 5,620                   11
4th                   700                 5,970                   12
1975/76
1st                   860                 6,220                   14
2nd                 2,100                 6,360                   33
3rd                 4,350                 6,950                   62
4th                 5,600                 7,000                   80
1976/77
1st                 5,720                                         82
2nd                 5,720                                         82
3rd                 5,800                                         83
4th                 5,890                                         84
1977/78
1st                 5,930                                         85
2nd                 5,950                                         85
3rd                 6,000                                         86
4th                 6,020                                         86,
1978/79
1st                 6,070                                         87
2nd                 6,360                                         91
3rd                 6,520                                         93
4th                 6,570                                         94
1979/80
1st                 6,590                                         94
2nd                 6,590                                         94
3rd                 6,650                                         95
4th                 6,776 1/                                      97
1/   Credit closed as of June 30, 1980 and remaining funds of U5S223,673.01 cancelled.
Source: Appraisal Report, July 17, 1972; Controller's Department
June 1981



- 27 -
Table 3.08
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Road Maintenance Program for Paved Roads in the
Northern Part of the Country - Estimated Recurrent Costs
and Actual Expenditure (in Sd '000)
Estimated        Actual
Year         Costs 1/     Expeditures
1975/76          446             248
1976/77          820             350
1977/78          883             595
1978/79        2,203             872
1979/80 2/     3,583             793
1980/81 '7/    2,877           1,340 3/
1981/82 7/     1,911           2,400 S/ 4/
1982/83 7/     2,577             n.a.
1/   In current prices.
2/   Revised and extended program prepared in 1979 for
1979/80-1982/83; the substantial increase in
estimated costs for the first two years reflects
planned rapid implementation of periodic
maintenance postponed during 1974/75-1978/79.
3/   Included in estimated costs, but not in actual
expenditures, is the cost of maintenance of the
230 km Wad Medani-Gedaref road being carried out
by the People's Republic of China (which also
completed construction of the road by own forces
in 1977) while constructing a 5 cm asphaltic
concrete overlay on the whole length of the road;
actual expenditures have not been made available.
4/   Budget proposal.
Source: Highway Maintenance Program, 1974 and 1979, and RBPC,
1981
June 1981



- 28 -
Table 3.O0
SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 331-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance for Gravel Roads
in the Southern Region - Estimated Costs
(in Sd - '000)
Road Rehabilitation             Road Maintenance
Estimated        Actual       Estimated       Actual
Costs 1/    Expenditures      Costs 1/    Expenditures
1973/74    219             n.a.
1974/75    260             n.a.          295             n.a.
1975/76    284             n.a.          267            n.a.
1976/77    323             n.a.          272             n.a.
1977/78    375             n.a.          292            n.a.
1978/79    446             n.a.          247            n.a.
1/ In current prices.
Source: Highway Maintenance Program, 1974.
June 1981



SUDAN
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 311-SU
Economic Re-evaluation of Road Maintenance Programl/
75/76   76/77   77/78    78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82    82/83   83/84
-----------------------------(US$000)------------------------------
A. Actual Expenditures of the Five-Year Program2!
(i)  Capital (Current prices)                 2,170     290      130     550     220    -        -        -
(mid '78 prices)                 2,929     360     145      520     174    -        -        -       _
(ii)  Recurrent (current prices)                 620     875    1,488   2,180   1,586   2,680   2,680    2,680   2,680
(mid '78 prices)                 944   1,211   1,795   1,980    1,249   1,800   1,800   1,800    1,800
Total (mid '78 prices)I/               3,      1,621    1,990   2,550   1,473   1,800    1,800   1,800   1,800
B.  Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs (USU/km)k/                           Paved Road in Good Condition
(Per Vehicle Type)                                    Light           Medium          Heavy
13.5            19.7            49.2
C.  Length of Roads Maintained (km)                           76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80    80/815/ 81/82   82/83   83/84
299     543      770     830   1,100   1,100   1,100    1,100
1/  The Road Maintenance Program covered major part of the paved road network; remaining roads (about 400 km) are being
maintained under different arrangements.
2/ No capital expenditures after 1979/80; beyond 1980/81 are estimates of recurrent costs.
3/  Economic analysis was done in mid-1978 prices; total cost also includes US$50,000 per year for technical assistance.
4/  In the analysis it was estimated that without the project,vocs onthe paved roads would increase by about 20% in
average; with the project, however, the anticipated increased vocs were reduced by 5-10%.
5/  It was assumed that roads in the program and recurrent costs would remain unchanged until the end of 
economic life.                                                                                                              w
0*



D.  Weighted Average Traffic on Maintained           76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81-6/ 81/82   82/83   83/84
Roads (Rounded ADT)
Vehicle Type
(i)  Light                                      675     440     435     445     460    490       525     565
(ii)  Medium                                     925     660     550     575     610    650       700     750
(iii)  Heavy                                      145      95      80      80     100    105       115     125
Total                                  1,745   1,195   1,065   1,105   1,170    1,245   1,340   1,440
75/76   76/77   77/78   78/79    79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84
E.  Savings in VOC (US$'000)                           -     1,0797/ 2,682   3,330   4,353    6,720   7,190   7,693   8,232
F.  Net Benefit Stream (US$'000)                    -3,923    -542     692      780   2,880   4,920   5,390   5,893   6,432
G.  Economic Rate of Return
C
(i) Base Case: 38%
(ii) Benefits reduced by 25%: 23.9%
6/ Annual traffic growth of 7% was applied thereafter until the end of the project life.
7/ In 1976/77 only 50% of benefits were assigned.
0*
rd1 03
X :



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
MI|NSTER
TRANSPORT
DEPIUTY INISTER
OF
TnANASPORT
I nA~~~~~SIUDwA^N                                      AYEF                  NI AN RATEPAY                                       -_- 
OF                  rNCGRPGRATIGN
StORES SECTION
EPARTME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GR
ACCOIINTS SECTION
_EIPUTV GENERAL MANAGER                  DEPUTY GENEACL MANAGER
CONSTRUCTION AND                         PRO,EcrS ANI_                                          GENERAL SE0CTIN
MEI%NElRANE                          AOSAINISTflATIGN                                  _10
|   ASIS.TANY         |         ASSISTANT             |        ASSISTANT                                           1    <.SSISIANT                               EO        SC
GE EnAL MANAGER                 CFNERAL MANAGER                GE'ERA.. MANAGER                                G                                                           I I
PIANTi ...CE                    blEC.ANICAL                    CONtSTRLCIO..N                                   PRIOJECTS
SENIOR ENGINEER                 SENIOR ENGINEER               SENIOR RE51DENT                         SENIOR ENGINEER                SER ENGINEE                    SENI'IR EIT.IELR     |
INONE AT .RESENTI               "ONE AT PPESENTL                   .GI(.STRUCTURES                                                         DESIGN                    ILABORAT.RRI I')
DSR  EN rS                             NFA TIIC                      A , S
MAINTENANCE ENGINEERTS          MECIIINICAL ENGINEERS            RESIDENI ENGINECRS                       lSTRUC;URES                 SURREY AW VI S I.N AND            D    *STI.ICt I. .FINERIAI
121  .1"                       121                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SURRE~ - 0rFICEs  2
ASSISIA.1 ENGINEERS  |     r   ASSISIA.1 ENGIN[EnIS  |         ASSISTANT ENGINEEII  I                  ASSIST^ASSISTANT ENGINEER      ASSISTANT EIGINERR   IASSISTANT FNI.INFER
AND TECHNIC-ANS                 ANT TERNICIANS      |          ANDTECHNICIANS                          AND TF.CIICIANS              ASSISTAN.TSUS.YORS               ANTI -AanORl;oRn                j.T
f2m                                                                                              DRAFTSMEN   1181                TECTINIIA III
|   LA.OR FORCE    i    0       LABOR FORtCe      l     l       LLABORERS AN0                                                           CRAINmEN                        LAbORERS
LABOR FORCE                     LABOR P %EOR C                                   |            |       CAR OSIVEBS                     CAR SIES          |    |      AID CAR DRIVERS
AND L ABORERS                        RS
Bn        Y_t * T.__t. B.. M     10.                                                                                                                                                 II IRAIIj  1hAl
Source:        ADpraisal Report, July 17, 1972
June 1981



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HtiGiWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
ROADS AND BRIDGES PUBLIC CORPORATION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L" A,twllI 1-  1-
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T.fl  ~.,.&  *n. _c  _  Q,r,,ac                    M.Int..c      onvco         M ,o          emnn
~        I                                                F
Tt.i14S'w ,0 1 01
r  0sO   l  l  Cvnills  1                          Dl^lor  |                     |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6M.- 1 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                              _. |....r L
It 1974                 -  i      t      jc B.g S&lel O.b  to?                   50" n   t      n   ; 
Source:   Appraisal Report of Second Highway Project, February 21, 1979.                                                                D7
June 1981                                                                                                                                ,r'



IBRO 13332R
24   24S                32  J             ,  3;6      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  CTOEER 107a
SUDAN                      ! A R A B     R E P U B LIC                     /
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                        O F    E G Y PT T
Main Transportation Network
L I B Y Ai                                      -     l'
R   E  D~
."\RoodPTo1e2  ".  t           N  O R T H  ER N              5   E   A       .     20-
~~~~-d~\  N  _-_                                N   O R   T  ERN  i'
P-Po d Roods UM, ro tf..... aW9
|  Roods and Trocks, Ali Seosnj.-                                              t\5            1;~ 
2                            'N'R..dsndT-6,Dr. y                          /S.
...ood, Being I.p,.d tj Engn..ro red
.                              >Rood, Boing Stpovdivo  nierd ..........,        ,                       -oda.4.. \M E
Grnet Stondord    C  H  AD
;_., Southern Rego|                                                           N 
Rpelin                                                                      h _
River 5erviej
. Eoioqg ond Plonned IrSot,oo 'ichemes     .
t   iRy of Pec Rood                                R    T  H   E   R   N  Kd 
69 INotilC.ptol  NX           N             0 R T H E R N
f No--lo CoPitoIk 
o    s enT                                Xt    dd Vill.
!        i   s o u r H E sDRA R F U  R                 eS,2               s    A
O U T T H ER N                        E R N I PI
D  AHAErR              UP
O    122  220  3?0  25)~pH              Z  L
hO 00.00/0 0i 00 00 0' 00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~     0
TGheat>dzhn6l/ews   ~C E N T R A L               {  E YRAT= i-J TU N G L t E I-o
weeve/eschhes ~~~E M P I R E 1fIJtI 1>K_ ,
/ f -                               k  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E S T E R  Tebt  E A 5g E' R N"-
X (t 7 r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > i, : *~~~~~~~~~~~~               U   A   4  o   R   I  A  
A F R Ig                     Z   A   I   R   E, a oDiltoiLhwo , _
()  9 /4   /   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~      i  64 To GuIu      \ c) ~~~~~~~~~K  E  N  Y  _A
\  2 CJ   =                                 2  (t U ~~~~~~G A N D A 
Onhhdh,rk..d,0.rVffOo. .rn_



