CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 331 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 331 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Department of Roads" or "DOR" means
the Department of Roads of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this A veement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972 and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1982 and ending January 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Transport with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)  The Borrower shall (i) provide an adequate number of qualified
personnel, on a full-time basis, to work with the consultants provided for Part


﻿5
A of the Project, (ii) submit to the Association for its approval, upon the completion
of Part A(I) of the Project, the consultants' recommendations pertaining thereto
and promptly provide a timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for the
implementation, under Parts A(II) and A(II) of the Project, of said
recommendations, and (iii) review the progress of said implementation, before the
completion of Parts A(1l) and A(1Il) of the Project, in order to determine, in
consultation with the Association, the need for further consulting services.
(c)   The Borrower shall in consultation with the Association appoint on
a full-time basis qualified counterparts to the consultants provided under Part C
of the Project, and shall review, before the completion by said consultants of their
services thereunder, the progress of transport planning with a view to determining
the need for further consulting services for that purpose.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules, for the Project, anc' any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project: (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall with the aid of consultants provided under
Part A of the Project: (i) institute a program for collecting and recording on a
continuing basis in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures
such traffic data, technical, economic and financial information as shall be
reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and
extensions of its road network; (ii) prepare and send to the Association not later
than June 30, 1973 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association
programs satisfactory to the Association for (A) the adequate maintenance and
betterment of the Borrower's road network, (B) the training of DOR's staff, (C)
the establishment of the necessary workshop facilities and field organization for
this purpose; and (iii) take all necessary action to implement the said programs.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all roads included in the Project to
be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made
promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering practices and shall provide
promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for such maintenance and repairs.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take measures (including where necessary
legislation) satisfactory to the Association for the regulation of traffic and road
use on its roads including vehicle weight and dimension limitations and take
adequate action to enforce said measures.
Section 4.05. The Borrower agrees to adopt not later than June 30, 1973
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association adequate design standards
satisfactory to the Association for road construction.
Section 4.06. (a) The roads which will be the subject of feasibility studies
under Part B of the Project shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association not later than December 31, 1973 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association may determine.


﻿(b)   After the completion of the said feasibility studies, the roads which
will be the subject of detailed engineering under Part B of the Project shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association not later than December 31,
1974 or such other date as the Borrower and the Association may determine.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
A change shall have been made in the functions and responsibilities of DOR
which will materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition for
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of


﻿9
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have
employed the consultants required for Part A of the Project in accordance with
Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date December 29, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.03 and 4.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
The Democratic Renublic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Abul Gasim Hashim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts
of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit -4//ocated
(Lxpressed in
CategorY                                          Dollar Equivalent)
1.    Consultants' services for                               900,000
Part A of the Project
II.   Consultants' services for                                00000
Part B of the Project
III.  Consultants' services for                               400,000
Part C of the Project
IV.   Spare parts, equipment, materials and                 4,000,000
supplies for Part A of the Project
V.    Unallocated                                             800,000
TOTAL         7.000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower:
(b)   expenditures prior to July 1, 1972:
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manuffacture,
procuremeni: or supply thereof; and


﻿12
(d)   expenditures for equipment, materials and supplies under Category IV
prior to the approval by the Association of the program for road maintenance
and betterment referred to in Section 4.02(ii) of this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a cOrresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably   determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association s reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A     The improvement of the organization and operations of DOR
including:
(I)        Consulting services over a period of about one year for:
(a)   the preparation of a program  of highway maintenance and
betterment for 1973 through 1978 and the determination of
budget requirements for the program based on needs for
manpower, equipment, workshop and materials;
(b)   the preparation of specifications, lists and bidding documents
for purchases of spare parts, equipment, materials and supplies
mentioned in Part A(Ill) of the Project, and assistance to DOR
in evaluating bids and awarding contracts;
(c)   advice and assistance to DOR on emergency rehabilitation of
existing maintenance equipment;
(d)   review of the existing organization and operations of DOR and
recommendations as to improvements based on the proposed
1973-1978 work program;
(e)   determination of the training needs of highway staff of DOR
at all levels, the preparation of appropriate training programs,
and advice on the facilities and funds required to carry out the
programs;
(f)  identification of high priority road construction projects and the
development of appropriate design standards for different road
types and traffic levels;
(g)   preparation  of suitable traffic and road user regulations,
including vehicle weight and dimension limitations, and
recommendations as to the appropriate organization to enforce
them; and


﻿14
(h)   the establishment of a program for collection of traffic data.
(II)       The implementation by DOR with the assistance of consultants
over a period of about 2 years of recommendations made under
Part A(I) of the Project as agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, including the carrying out of highway
maintenance and betterment programs.
(III)      Purchases of (i) spare parts for new and existing highway
maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment; (ii) new
highway maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment; (iii)
materials and supplies for highway betterment works and
workshop construction.
Part B     Feasibility studies of about 500 km of high priority roads identified
under Part A of the Project, followed by detailed engineering and/or
revisions to existing detailed engineering of, and preparation of bidding
documents for the construction of about 350 km of these roads,
identified as being of high priority.
Part C     Technical assistance for transport planning and coordination and staff
training in the Borrower's Ministry of Transport.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Road Maintenance, Workshops and Laboratory Equipment
1.   Prior to the invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare, with the assistance
of the consultants, under Part A of the Project, and submit to the Association
for its approval, lists of the goods to be procured, including specifications, proposed
grouping of goods, the estimated unit and total cost thereof and copies of
advertising coverage and of the tender documents.
2.    The interval between the invitation to bid and the opening of bids shall
be not less than forty-five days.
3.    Prior to the award of any contract for the supply of goods, the Borrower
shall send to the Association:
(a)   a summary of all bids received; and
(b)   the Borrower's and the consultants' evaluation of such bids and their
recommendation for award.
4.    After the award of any contract, but prior to the submission of any
withdrawal application relating to expenditures thereunder, the Borrower shall send
two signed copies thereof to the Association.
B.    Spare Parts for Existing Holdings of Highway Maintenance and Workshop
Equipment, Materials and Supplies
1.   Procurement of such goods shall be made on the basis of local competitive
bidding or quotations from local suppliers. Identical or similar items will be grouped
together wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement. Prior
to procurement the Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Consultants under
Part A of the Project, submit to the Association for its approval lists of the goods
to be procured, including specifications, the estimated unit and total cost thereof
and the names of the proposed suppliers or bidders.
2.    Before contracts are awarded, the Borrower will send to the Association
copies of the text of the invitation to submit quotations or bids, and shall submit,
for the approval of the Association, an evaluation of the bids received and the


﻿10
Borrower's proposal concerning the contract award. If it is proposed to award the
contract to a bidder other than the one offering the lowest evaluated price, the
reasons for such proposal will be given.
C.    In respect of all Project contracts, the Borrowvr shall send to the Association
two signed copies of each contract as soon as   wd and iwfore submission of
the first withdrawal application in respect oi1     mr it


