Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18072
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4005-AL)
May 24, 1998
Country Operations Division
Mahgreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Unit of Currency = Algeria Dinar (DA)
1993         1994           1995           1996            1997
DA per US$, period average    23.3            35.1           47.6           54.7           57.0
DA per US$, end of period        24.1         42.9           52.2           56.2           57.9
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations
AFS            Allocation Forfaitaire de Solidarite (Lump Sum Solidarity Allowance)
APSI           Agence pour la Promotion et le Soutien des Investissements (National Investment Agency)
AIG            Activites d'Int&ret General (Public Works-based Jobs Program)
BA             Banque d'Algerie (Central Bank)
BAD            Banque Algerienne de Developpement (Algerian Development Bank)
CNEP           Caisse d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (Household Savings Institution)
CNT            Conseil National de la Transition (Interim Legislature)
EFSAL          Entreprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EPE            Entreprise Publique Economique (Autonomous Public Enterprise)
EPIC           Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel et Commercial (Autonomous Public Utility)
EPL            Entreprise Publique Locale (Local Public Enterprise)
EPS            Entreprise Publique Socialiste (Non-autonomous Public Enterprise)
ERL            Economic Rehabilitation Loan
ERSL           Economic Reform Support Loan
EU             European Union
FA             Fonds dA'ssainissement (Restructuring Fund)
IAIG           Indemnite pour Activite d'Interet General (Public Works Allowance)
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICSR          Indemnite aux Categories Sociales sans Revenus (Direct Transfer Payment to Households
without Income)
LSMS           Living Standards Measurement Survey
MRIP           Ministere de la Restructuration Industrielle et de la Participation (Ministry of Industrial
Restructuring and Participation)
OAIC           Office Algerien Interprofessionnel des Cereales (National Cereals Board)
PE             Public Enterprise
PEC-1988       Programme en Cours 1988 (Program of Public Enterprise Investments as of 1998)
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PSA            Private Sector Assessment
SGG            Secretaire Gen&ral du Gouvernement (Secretary General of the Government)
SME            Small and Mediumn-scale Enterprises
Vice President                Kemal Dervis
Director                      Christian Delvoie
Staff Member                  Habib Fetini



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POP1ULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4005-AL)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background .........................1
B.  Program Objectives .........................2
C.   Achievement of Objectives .........................3
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................5
E.   Project Sustainability .........................6
F.  Bank Performance .........................7
G.   Bo rrowe r Performance .........................8
H.  Assessment of Outcome .........................9
1.  Key Lessons Learned ........................                                                   10
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATIODN
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ............................................                     13
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................................                 15
Table 3:   Project Timetable ............................................                          16
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................ 17
Table 5:   Indicators of Project Implementation ............................................      18
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................      25
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ............................................               26
Table 8A: Project Costs .27
Table 8B: Project Financing .28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4005-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan in
Algeria (Loan 4005-AL) in the amount of US$300 million. The loan was approved on May 3, 1996 and
became effective on June 26, 1996.
The loan closed on April 30, 1998, the original closing date. The first tranche, released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed by June 26, 1996. The second tranche was released on July 15, 1997,
compared with the original date of June 30, 1997.
This ICR was prepared by Habib Fetini, Sr. Country Economist of the Maghreb Department and
Project Manager. It was reviewed by Daniela Gressani, Economic Policy Sector Leader (MNSED),
Christian Delvoie, Director (MNCMG), and Marisa Fernandez-Palacios, Portfolio Manager (MNCMG).
The draft ICR was communicated to the Government for comments.
Preparation of this ICR was based on the Bank's mission in May 1998. It was also based on
material in the project file and from the last social and financial sector missions that took place in March
and April 1998.



IMPLEMENTAT]ION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND PODPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURPiL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4005-AL)
EVALIJATION SUMMARY
i.    Background. By the mid-1970s, Algeria's socialist economic model was no longer capable of
generating growth or productive employmen,t. After international petroleum prices fell in 1986, Algeria
entered into a downward spiral of over-borrowing and economic decline. Starting in 1987, the
authorities began to transform the centrally planned economy into a market economy and the Bank
assisted this process with two adjustment operations. Political discontent in 1992-1993 brought policy
reforms to a halt and reversed much of the; progress that had been achieved. By early 1994, Algeria
could no longer service its external debts, inflation accelerated and, as imports were compressed,
domestic production fell on account of shortages of raw materials and spare parts. In the face of
deepening domestic despair, political support for market-oriented reform was rekindled. An IMF
standby and a Bank economic rehabilitation operation were quickly mounted and aggressively
implemented. The international community rallied to support the program with debt relief under the
Paris Club and generous financial support by official creditors. The authorities responded by defining a
far-reaching, medium-term stabilization and adjustment effort, for which financial support from the IMF,
World Bank, and international creditors was sought. The IMF entered into a three-year Enhanced Fund
Facilit (EFF)operation in May 1995 and the SAL was approved in April 1996.
ii.    Program Objectives and Design. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was designed to
advance reforms initiated under the previous Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan (Loan 3834-AL),
and complement the three-year IMF Extended Fund Facility. The program's objectives were to: (a)
stimulate private sector-led growth; (b) protect the poor during the transition to a market-based economy;
and (c) enhance the country's ability to mobilize external resources. In close collaboration with the IMF,
the project was designed to support macroeconomic stabilization by rationalizing public expenditures
and reducing state enterprise recourse to the budget.
iii.   The program design was consistent with these objectives. Structural measures, aimed at
stimulating private sector development and supporting macro stabilization, included the privatization of
many small communal and local public enterprises, limiting state enterprises recourse to the budget
while preparing large public enterprises for privatization, increasing private sector involvement in public
projects, and enhancing the competitiveness and soundness of the financial sector. This design was,
however, at odds with what was known about best practices in fostering transition by the mid 1990s and
was problematic for at least three reasons. F irst, instead of shifting from the rehabilitation of state owned
enterprises and banks (ERL program) to large-scale privatization, emphasis under the SAL continued to
be put on a very gradual process of privatization, recapitalizing distressed state banks without addressing
the fundamental issue of their umbilical link with the State Owned Enterprises (SOE) sector, and
establishing holding companies to manage llarge numbers of the biggest public enterprises. Second, lack



of clarity on reform sequencing, combined with delays in implementation, contributed to poor supply
response. In fact, sequencing trade and exchange rate liberalization (Under ERL and EFF) prior to
privatization and removal of major bottelnecks to a domestic supply response was ineffective in
stimulating resource shifts into newly competitive sectors and contributed to de-industrialization.
Finally, while the SAL addressed safety net and social public expenditures, less than appropriate
attention was paid to an accompaning active employment creation program to support the reform process
in a situation characterized by unusual high unemployment at the start of reforms, combined with a
violent political and social discontent.
iv.    Program Results and Implementation Experience. The program's outcome was marginally
satisfactory, judged by the objectives defined during its preparation. In fact, while the program has
substantially achieved its main targets in terms of external and internal balances and inflation, these
achievements remain fragile. Macroeconomic measures were fully implemented and in areas such as
budget reform, the Government exceeded commitments made under the IMF's EFF program. The
exchange rate was managed flexibly, tight fiscal and monetary policies adhered to, trade restrictions
reduced, a prudent external borrowing policy observed, and significant debt relief was provided through
rescheduling. But while these policies contributed to Algeria's stabilization, exogenous and non
sustainable favorable factors (successive exceptional rainfalls, rising oil prices, favorable cross-currency
exchange rates, etc...) accounted to a large extent for the recovery and the improvement in the internal
and external balances. Growth in the non-hydrocarbon sector has not been restored and has in the
contrary continued to deteriorate, in particular in the manufacturing sector. That a broad-based private
sector supply response to reform has yet to emerge is one of the main reason for Algeria's increasing
open unemployment rate.
v.    -The program  has also partially achieved its privatization and public sector reform: The
Government closed the public enterprise restructuring fund, launched a small and experimental
privatization program that put small communal enterprises up for sale, and liquidated close to half of the
small local Public Enterprises (EPLs). The larger public enterprises (EPEs) were put under the
administration of holding companies, and the authorities have announced their intention to privatize
them. But the process of evaluating these larger enterprises has been stretched and the first real
privatization operation is yet to be seen.
vi.    Other steps were taken to improve the private sector enabling environment but the private sector
is still, by and large, confined to the trade sector, and is constrained by public sector dominance in the
main economic sectors. A competition law was promulgated, but its implementation will remain non-
credible under the quasi-monopoly of the public sector; a stock market was launched, and the state banks
were recapitalized and required to observe international capital-asset norms which are good steps in
building a competitive and efficient financial system, but progress in the reform of this sector remains
dependent on its effective de-linking from public enterprises (through privatization) and from state
interference.
vii.   Some progress has been achieved in social safety net strengthening and improved targeting. A
poverty assessment, drawing on the results of a living standards measurement survey, helped to enhance
social safety net targeting and inform an effort to define a poverty reduction strategy. Payment
procedures and targeting mechanisms for the three main social safety net programs were improved, but
this was done at the expense of coverage, which has shrunk, while needs are fast increasing.
viii.   The objective of increasing the mobilization of external resources was also partially achieved.
While the SAL and the EFF programs enabled Algeria to successfully reschedule its bilateral and



commercial debt, Algeria's net direct foreign investment outside the oil sector remains disappointing,
and negative net transfers from official lenders are being recorded.
ix.    The Government exhibited commitment to the design and implementation of the project. The
authorities organized tripartite meetings with the unions and enterprise managers to build consensus for
the reform process, and mounted a public information campaign and debate to broaden public support.
While the Government was generally cooperative with the Bank during the project period, timely access
to essential information was a problem. This stemmed partly from weaknesses in the Government's
statistical reporting capacity and reluctance to release "sensitive" information, resulting in delays in the
completion of some economic and sector work. All specific covenants defined in the Loan Agreement
were met. The second tranche of the SAL was released on time and the loan was closed on time.
x.     Special studies were conducted on public expenditures, poverty conditions, tariff policy, and the
private sector. Study results made an important contribution to the Government's attempts to refine and
advance the reform effort. A great number of the recommendations made in the public expenditure
review, for example, were incorporated into the 1996 and 1997 budgets and budget institution reforms.
xi.    Bank staff provided a full complement of skills and expertise in the identification and appraisal
of the project. Conditions prior to Board appraisal, and prior to release of the second tranche, were well
defined. Despite the fact that travel to Algeria was restricted for nearly half the project implementation
period, the project was overall well supervised and a continuous policy dialogue was maintained. As
part of the supervision effort, the Bank orgamized high-level seminars in Algeria on global lessons of
privatization and infrastructure projects concessions. This aimed at helping to broaden the understanding
of alternative privatization approaches and sensitizing Algeria's leaders to the importance of accelerating
privatization to restore broad-based growth. Support was also provided to simplify the privatization law,
which was modified to ease pricing conditions and allow mass privatization and employee buyouts. The
Bank staff were also actively involved in dialogue with the unions and in organizing large information
meetings with private sector entrepreneurs within and outside Algeria to deepen teir understanding of the
reform process and improve the quality of its advice to the Government.
xii.   Program Sustainability. The sustainability of the project is uncertain in the medium term.
Stabilization achievements will not be sustainable without a quick resumption of private sector-led
growth and diversification. Private sector initiatives remain constrained by public sector domination in
key sectors of the economy. Algeria's economy remains highly dependent on the hydrocarbon sector and
as such is very vulnerable, especially since restructuring in the non-hydrocarbon sectors is still at a very
early stage. Despite the limited scope of privatization, unemployment has aggravated, straining the
social consensus in favor of reform and the prospects for furthering the privatization process. In mid-
1998, Algeria's grace period under external debt restructuring arrangements comes to an end, increasing
the pressure on a fragile external payments position. Finally, there is still no definite turnaround in the
security situation which continues to claim scores of human lives, destroys infrastructure , interrupts
production and trade, and deters investment and foreign technical assistance. During the past three years,
however, a strong pro-reform constituency has emerged, in particular among the bureaucrats who know
much better now about macroeconomic management than in the past, with a direct link between its own
success and the progress of reforms, and a good momentum has developed, weighing favorably for the
continuation of the reform process. The Central Bank has developed a good degree of independence.
Preparation for a large program of privatization is at an advanced stage, and a sharp criticism of the past
two years laxism in progressing privatizaLtion is being voiced publicly, including from within the
administration itself.



IV
xiii.  Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned. Algeria's external payments indicators have
significantly improved. The IMF's EFF program has been completed satisfactorily and there is no
extension envisioned to this program. No further World Bank adjustment operations are contemplated at
this point. Structural reform will be discussed during preparation of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) and should be supported through policy dialogue and sectoral investment programs within the
framework of the CAS.
xiv.   The key lessons from this project are that: (a) an active and large scale employment creation
strategy is necessary in a situation marked by very high unemployment (around 25 percent in the case of
Algeria at the start of the reform process) to enable the political and social feasibility of a swift
implementation of reforms; (b) sequencing of reforms matters. Trade and exchange rate liberalization
should go hand-in-hand with privatization and support to the private sector for a quick supply response.
The lack of such a balanced and mutually supportive approach contributes to de-industrialization,
weakens the support for reform, and undermines the implementation of the very trade and exchange
liberalization as they become unsustainable; (c) unbalanced and prolonged emphasis on stabilization at
the expense of structural reforms, and exaggerated valuation of improved short term macro performance
indicators alone diverts attention from the need to accelerate structural reform, as it gives policymakers a
false sense of having finished the agenda and gives the general population a false expectation of an end
to its pain.



IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4005-AL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT



1
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The macroeconomic imbalances, structural rigidities, and civil discontent that triggered the need
for adjustment assistance arose from longstanding faults in Algeria's socialist economic model. These
faults became fully apparent following the decline in petroleum prices in 1986. Failure to adjust
promptly to the oil chock, and the following reversal of economic reform effeorts during the 1992-1993
period, led to severe external payment imbalances. These imbalances arose at the background of a
decade-long economic decline in which per capita income fell by close to 25 percent and unemployment
rose to over 25 percent. Failure to foster sustained growth and development contributed to civil
instability and political unrest.
2.    In 1987, the authorities began to introduce market-oriented reforms. Most public enterprises
(PEs) were granted autonomy, price controls were lifted, foreign investment requirements were
liberalized, state import monopolies were scaled back, and a two-tier banking system was established.
The Bank supported this effort through policy dialogue and two adjustment operations. Reform was,
however, reversed in 1992 and 1993 following an upsurge in civil unrest, falling oil prices, and a rapidly
escalating external debt burden. Trade and payment restrictions were tightened, the fiscal deficit reached
9 percent of GDP, and foreign exchange was rationed for priority imports. Imports were compressed,
inflation soared, and the dinar appreciated by nearly 50 percent. By the end of 1993, the authorities were
unable to meet external debt obligations, inflation was approaching 30 percent, official reserves fell to
below two months of import cover, and shortages of imports disrupted the manufacturing sector.
3.    The urgency of the macroeconomic situation inspired the authorities to resume the reform
process. On May 27, 1994, the authorities and the IMF entered into a one-year stand-by arrangement for
a total of SDR 731.52 million (US$1 billion). Resumption of the reform process led to the release of the
US$175 million second tranche of the Bank's EFSAL in July 1994. This triggered the release of an
additional US$150 million from the Export-Import Bank of Japan and ECU 150 million from the
European Union. Following approval of the standby arrangement, the Government reached agreement
with the Paris Club to reschedule its official. bilateral debt. This, in turn, triggered resumption of talks
with the London Club of commercial creditors to reschedule US$2 billion in 1994 and 1995 debt service
obligations. To broaden the focus of structural reform efforts, the Bank entered into an Economic
Rehabilitation Support Loan (Loan 3834) in March 1995. This project provided critical balance of
payments assistance, lent support to the macroeconomic measures outlined in the IMF standby
arrangement, and initiated a structural reform effort aimed at improving the incentive framework for
private sector development, reforming public enterprises, rationalizing public expenditures, reforming
the financial sector, and strengthening the social protection system.
4.    During 1994-1995, swift progress was made on both the macroeconomic and structural fronts.
The currency was devalued twice for a total of 100 percent, most non-tariff trade and exchange
restrictions were eliminated, a budget surp!lus was maintained, subsidies were reduced on energy and
food products, agricultural input prices were freed, Government wages were capped, credit limits were
imposed on non-autonomous public enterprises (EPEs), a pilot privatization effort was launched, a
privatization law was promulgated, the commercial and investment codes were modernized, the banking
and insurance sectors were opened to private investment, and a social safety net system, based on a self-
targeted public works scheme, a means tested program for the elderly and the handicapped, and a
unemployment insurance scheme, was adopted. But the supply response to macroeconomic and



2
structural reforms was disappointing. In 1994, GDP continued to fall, end-of-period inflation was close
to 40 percent, and the current account deficit reached 4.4 percent of GDP.
5.    The authorities recognized that a deeper commitment to macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reform would be needed to reverse a decade of economic decline. In early 1995, the
Government requested the support of the IMF and World Bank for a medium-term reform program. On
May 22, 1995, the IMF Board approved a three-year (April 1995 to May 1998) SDR1.17 billion extended
arrangement under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The EFF operation aimed at restoring a high and
sustained rate of economic growth, lowering the inflation rate, strengthening the social safety net, and
restoring a viable balance of payments. The Bank collaborated closely with the IMF in the design of the
macroeconomic and structural reform measures supported by the EFF program.
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
6.    The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was designed to advance reforms initiated under the
previous Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan (Loan 3834-AL), and complement the three-year IMF
Extended Fund Facility. The program's objectives were to: (a) stimulate private sector-led growth; (b)
protect the poor during the transition to a market-based economy; and (c) enhance the country's ability to
mobilize external resources. In close collaboration with the IMF, the project was designed to support
macroeconomic stabilization by rationalizing public expenditures and reducing state enterprise recourse
to the budget.
7.    The program design was consistent with these objectives. Structural measures, aimed at
stimulating private sector development and supporting macro stabilization, included the privatization of
many small communal and local public enterprises, limiting state enterprises recourse to the budget
while preparing large public enterprises for privatization, increasing private sector involvement in public
projects, and enhancing the competitiveness and soundness of the financial sector. This design was,
however, at odds with what was known about best practices in fostering transition by the mid 1990s2 and
was problematic for at least three reasons. First, instead of shifting from the rehabilitation of state owned
enterprises and banks (ERL program) to large sclae privatization, emphasis under the SAL continued to
be on a very gradual process of privatization, the recapitalizing of distressed state banks without
addressing the fundamental issue of their umbilical link with the SOE sector, and the establishment of
holding companies to manage large numbers of the biggest public enterprises. Second, lack of clarity on
reform sequencing combined with delays in implementation, contributed to poor supply response. In fact,
sequencing trade and exchange rate liberalization prior to privatization and removal of major bottlenecks
to a domestic supply response was ineffective in stimulating resource shifts into newly competitive
sectors, contributed to de-industrialization, and could very well precipitate the reversal of these very
reforms in the case of worsening external balances. Finally, less than appropriate attention was given to
employment creation in a situation characterized by unusual high unemployment before even the start of
reforms, combined with violent political and social discontent.
2 See John Nellis, "Reform of Public Enterprises" and Vinod Thomas,", Trade Policy Reform", in V. Thomas, A.
Chhibber, M. Dailami, and J. De Melo, eds., Restructuring Economies in Distress, Oxford University Press, 1991.



3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall, judged by the objectives defined during its preparation, the program's outcome was
marginally satisfactory. The program has substantially achieved its main macroeconomic objectives in
terms of restoring external and internal balances and reducing inflation (para. 10). These achievements
remain fragile, however: Exogenous and non-sustainable favorable factors (successive rainfalls, higher
oil prices, favorable cross currency exchang,e rates, etc.) contributed largely to this performance; growth
in the non-hydrocarbon sector has not been restored but has, on the contrary, continued to deteriorate, in
particular in the manufacturing sector; and with it, unemployment continues to be aggravated. The
program has also achieved only partially its private sector support, public enterprise reform, and social
safety net objectives. Indeed, privatization of large enterprises has not yet started; much remains to be
accomplished in building a competitive and efficient financial system, with progress in the reform of this
sector remaining dependent on the pace of reform in the public sector as a means of de-linking the
financial sector from the public enterprises and freeing it from state interference; and progress in social
safety net strengthening and employment creation remains insufficient to cover the increased needs in
this area. The objective of substantially increasing the mobilization of external resources was also only
partially achieved: while the SAL and the l,FF programs enabled Algeria to successfully reschedule its
bilateral and commercial debt, Algeria net direct foreign investment outside the hydrocarbon sector
remains disappointing, and negative net transfers from official lenders is being recorded.
9.    External Resource Mobilization. The program partially achieved its objective of mobilizing
financial resources to meet Algeria's pressing balance of payments requirements. On the basis of the
IMF EFF arrangement and the Bank SAL, Algeria was able to reschedule its public debt, first with the
Paris Club creditors in 1994 and 1995 and then with the London Club of commercial banks in 1996.
Debt rescheduling provided US$10 billion in relief for 1994 and 1995, an additional US$3.5 billion in
1996, and US$2.2 billion in 1997. In addition to debt relief, the rebound in hydrocarbon export earnings,
from US$9.7 billion in 1995 to US$12.6 billion in 1996 and US$13.4 billion in 1997, significantly
improved Algeria's external payments position. But net direct foreign investment was disappointing,
averaging just US$270 million per annum (US$10 per capita). Overall, Algeria recorded negative net
transfers from official lenders of US$1.8 billion in 1996 and US$1.7 billion in 1997.
10.   Macroeconomic Framework. Macroeconomic measures were fully implemented, consistent
with the program defined under the IMF's EFF. The exchange rate was managed flexibly, tight fiscal
and monetary policies adhered to, trade restrictions reduced, and a prudent external borrowing policy
observed. Real GDP resumed positive growth and grew by 3.9 percent in 1995, 3.8 percent in 1996, but
zero percent in 1997. Due in large part to relief provided by debt rescheduling, and owing to high
hydrocarbons prices and a decline in impoirts, a current account surplus of 2.7 percent of GDP in 1996
and 6.7 percent of GDP in 1997 enabled thte authorities to accumulate US$9 billion in official reserves,
equivalent to 8 months of import cover, by the end of 1997. Prudent fiscal policy, the centerpiece of
which was a tripartite agreement to reduce the public wage bill, and favorable oil prices resulted in a
budget surplus of 3 percent of GDP in 1996 and 2.3 percent in 1997. Limitation of credit by the state
banks held money supply growth to less than 20 percent per annum in 1996 and 1997. To provide scope
for private borrowing, credit to the Government declined in absolute terms. An easing of aggregate
demand pressure brought inflation down from an average of 30 percent in 1995 to 6 percent in 1997.
While prudent fiscal and monetary policies contributed to Algeria's stabilization, excellent crop
conditions in 1995 and 1996 and a rebound in hydrocarbon exports in 1996 explain most of the economic
growth in the past three years.



4
11.   Budgetary Policy.  In line with recommendations made in a public expenditure review
conducted in collaboration with the bank, health and education expenditures were protected from budget
cuts, priorities were set for capital investments, a zero net recruitment policy for civil servants was
adopted, and the public sector wage bill was reduced to 8.9 percent of GDP from more than 11 percent.
Institutional measures, including a review of social sector staffing needs, were launched to rationalize the
operations of the civil service. The Restructuring Fund, which had been used to recapitalize public
enterprises, was closed, breaking the link between the budget and the public enterprises sector. Central
Government operations registered a robust fiscal surplus for the past two years 2 and 3 percent of GDP),
but as the process of privatization has not yet started, and the need for strengthening the social
safety net to contain the high growth of unemployment and potential layoffs remains pressing for
politicians, there is a risk, in particular if there is a large oil price shock, of a reversal in the fiscal
stance.
12.   Public Enterprise Reform. A tighter budget constraint was imposed on the SOE by closing the
public enterprise Restructuring Fund, and banks' overdrafts to the large PEs were restricted to less than
one month of enterprise turnover. Eleven holding companies were established to manage the 340 largest
public enterprises (EPEs). Five additional holding companies were created to manage the preparation for
privatization of 200 of the 1,400 small local enterprises (EPLs). The holding companies were authorized
to restructure, divest, and retain the proceeds associated with the sale or liquidation of the PEs. The
Bank, presented with the fait accompli of the establishment of holding companies, advised establishing
sunset colosing rules with a strict timetable for their dismantling, fixing a comprehensive schedule of
privatization, and employing a range of privatization approaches that would ensure swift divestiture and
efficient restructuring of the PEs.
13.   Privatization. A privatization law was passed and later modified to ease pricing conditions and
allow mass privatization and employee buyouts. Two batches of small enterprise privatization were
launched under the SAL. Privatization concerned bringing to the point of sale very small communal
activities and enterprises (which are not SOE, per se, as are EPEs or EPLs), bringing to the point of sale
units of SOEs (partial privatization), and liquidation of EPLs. In the first batch, 274 communal and local
enterprises were either sold or liquidated. In the second batch, 267 enterprises were either brought to the
point of sale or liquidated. Liquidation of bunkrupt EPLs dominated the process. In terms of number the
target of the SAL, which does not discriminate between liquidation and sale, has been exceeded. In fact,
696 out the 1,500 small EPLs have now been effectively liquidated. For the largest public enterprises
(EPEs), 76 enterprises, mostly from the construction and manufacturing sectors, accounting for 160,000
employees, have been also liquidated. The authorities have announced a program for the privatization of
250 of these largest public enterprises. It was reported that the process of evaluating of the large
enterprises is at an advanced stage and that 89 of these EPEs are scheduled to be presented for sale
before the end of June 1998. Despite the large number of public enterprises closed down, the
privatization law has yet to be tested, since none of these enterprises has yet been privatized under the
Privatization Law. Liquidation was the main method used to divest small and medium local public
enterprises, and privatization by sale of the small communal enterprises was made under other restrictive
legislation.
14.   Agricultural Sector Reform. Restitution measures for land "donated" to the state were passed,
and a law outlining the procedures for transforming state agricultural land into private property was
approved by the Council of Government. The law is scheduled to be debated by the Parliament before
the end of 1998. These highly sensitive measures, if implemented, have the potential to bolster
agricultural investment incentives and spur technological progress.



5
15.   Incentive Framework. The implementing regulations for a Competition Law were published.
Progress was made in regularizing urban property titles and enabling legislation was passed for leasing
and factoring services. Regulatory improvemnents had, however, little immediate effect on private sector
investment activity because of the restraints to competition posed by the large Government presence in
the productive sectors and the deteriorating security situation.
16.   Housing Reform. Under a new housing strategy, public sector involvement was phased out and
construction by the private sector was emphasized. Housing subsidies were made explicit in the 1998
budget and a plan for privatizing Government construction companies and auctioning off undeveloped
urban building sites was prepared. The housing finance agency (CNEP) was transfortned into a mortgage
bank. Public housing rents were increasedi to reduce poorly targeted dwelling subsidies, but these
increases remain very modest (based on the existing very low rental rates, it will take more than two
centuries to mortgage a Government-rented house in Algeria).
17.   Financial Sector Reform. The stal:e banks were audited, management contracts for the banks
were developed, all banks met a first stepF 4 percent capital adequacy requirement, and three were
recapitalized to meet the 8 percent international capital adequacy norm. Growth in overdraft accounts
was checked by the establishment of a one-month turnover limit for overdrafts to PEs. The Government
opened up participation in two state banks but this attracted little investor interest. Taking advantage of
more liberal banking laws, two new private banks with foreign participation were founded. Despite this
progress, Algeria's financial market continies to be dominated by five low-performance state banks.
Capital market activity was given a boost by new regulations governing the accounting of financial
security transactions, the start of a Treasury Bill auction, and the founding of a Securities Market
Management Corporation. Efforts to reform the payments system stalled. Further progress in financial
sector reform will be closely linked with the pace of the privatization process and reform of the public
sector in general as they provide a means of de-linking the financial sector from the public enterprises
sector and freeing it from state interference.
18.   Social Safety Net Reform. Poverty relief transfers were combined into an lump-sum Solidarity
Allowance (AFS) program directed to elderly and handicapped, which was improved by better targeting
and by establishing shorter payment periods. The self-targeting public employment program PAIG (a
self-targeted income transfer and transitory employment program) was based on the rule of "a full day's
work for a half day's pay", even though many violations to this rule were reported and the increase in
wages and the decrease in allocation, contributed to a decline in the participation in the PAIG program
which fell from 580,000 persons in 1995 to about 100,000 in 1997. The Unemployment Insurance Fund
(CNAC) has accumulated large reserves, estimated to be sufficient to finance close to 200,000 layoffs
each year. The results from a living standards measurement survey (LSMS) and a poverty assessment
should enable the Government to refine its strategy for reducing poverty.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.   Factors Beyond Government Control. Restoring macroeconomic balance was assisted by
unforeseen improvements in Algeria's external economic environment. Good weather in 1996 aiid 1997
led to strong growth in agricultural output and helped to ease inflationary pressures. Crude oil export
prices overshot forecasts by 20 percent and reached US$22 per barrel in 1996, and stayed firmn at US$20
per barrel in 1997. In value terms, hydrocarbon exports in 1997 were 56 percent greater than in 1994,
boosting GDP by close to 3 percent in both 1996 and 1997. The strengthening of the US dollar (the
hydrocarbon export currency) vis-A-vis the yen (major debt payment currency) and the Euro currencies



6
(imports payment currency), helped improve the trade balance, reduce debt service costs, and ease
pressure on the budget. Major new investments in the hydrocarbon sector came on stream in 1997 and
1998, benefiting from the strong global prices in 1997 and helping to compensate for the decline in 1998
global petroleum prices. Another important unforeseen contribution to the improvement of the external
payments position came from a sizable decline in import levels related to the overall depression of the
non-oil economy, in particular to the decline in inputs and capital goods imports by public enterprises
following tightening of the budget constraint and their limited access to credit. The decline in imports
was also related to the decline in imports of consumption linked to the decline in disposable income.
20.   A deteriorating domestic security environment and political uncertainty also hampered the
reform process and dampened the supply response to improvements in the domestic incentive
environment. The national elections of 1997 ushered in a coalition Government which had to reconcile
great differences in economic perspectives, administrative experience and reform approaches. Sabotage,
assassinations, and other acts of extremism marred the political scene in 1996 and 1997. The volatile
domestic security situation affected domestic trade, obstructed foreign direct investment, and hampered
the provision of international technical assistance.
21.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The authorities adopted a "go slow"
reform policy, especially with regard to public enterprise privatization, private participation in state
banks, and the phasing out of Government activity in the housing market. Reform timidity was dictated
by the prevailing civil strife and an unemployment rate that reached 28 percent of the labor force in
1997. After the presidential elections of 1996, the pace of reforms slowed, in part because of the
exclusive emphasis of the Government on the political reform process, including the parliamentary and
municipal elections, and also because of improvements in hydrocarbon exports eased the immediate
pressure on the budget and the external payments position. At the beginning of the process, Government
officials launched an intensive media campaign to explain the main reform measures to the population.
The unions were enlisted to support the reform process.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   Whether reform progress will accelerate at a sufficient pace and stabilization be maintained is
uncertain. First, improvements in the external payments situation and the budget balance, and the easing
of inflation, have somewhat reduced the sense of urgency regarding the economic situation and
contributed to a relaxed stance in carrying out privatization and sectoral reforms. After a decade of much
pain and little gain for the general population, a certain amount of adjustment fatigue has set in, and the
muted support by the unions is ending. Second, the depth and breadth of the structural adjustment effort
is not yet sufficient to ensure a sustained private sector-led growth and development process. The
economy is still highly dependent on hydrocarbons, which account for 95 percent of exports, 60 percent
of Government revenues, and one fourth of GDP. As a result, Algeria's new-found economic stability
may be hard to maintain in a more adverse economic environment. Third, in mid 1998 the grace period
provided under debt rescheduling expires, and the debt overhang will strain the budget and may impede
strong future investment. Fourth, no lasting progress has been made in restoring employment growth.
The manufacturing sector, dominated by public sector, continues to contract (by 8.7 percent in 1996 and
9.2 percent in 1997) in the face of foreign competition, and open unemployment is approaching 30
percent of the labor force. Private activity is clearly insufficient to keep pace with the 170,000 workers
entering the labor force each year, much less the overhang of an estimated 2.4 million unemployed. If
privatization proceeds, the PE labor force will be subject to downsizing. As unemployment rises, this
will place heavy strains on the Government budget, at the same time that debt service obligations



7
increase, threatening the achievements in macroeconomic stabilization. Fifth, faced with the fiscal and
political imperative of avoiding costly job losses, there is a risk that the authorities may adopt, on a large
scale, "accommodating" privatization policies, such as employee buyouts, that would lock in existing
inefficiency and impede trully enterprise restructuring. Finally, there are no definite signs of a
turnaround in the security situation which continues to claim scores of human lives, destroy
infrastructure, interrupt production and trade, and deter investment and foreign technical assistance.
23.   On the other hand, there is also relatively strong constituency for reform, and a momentum has
developed during the last three years of reforms, both of which weigh in favor of the sustainability of
reforms. Strong support for a stable macroeconomic stance among the officials in charge of economic
policy setting and management has indeed developed throughout the EFF and SAL processes and
constitutes a non-negligible resistance factor against the possibility of macroeconomic policy reversals.
The Central Bank has also established a significant degree of independence. Steps taken to improve
priority setting in public expenditure have served as a valuable learning experience, and Government
efforts to enhance budget transparency and advance civil service reform provide reason to believe that
further progress will be made along these lines. There seems to be less risk than before that the
Government will provide recourse to the budget for the PEs, bringing to a close nearly a decade of
bailouts. Preparation for a large program of privatization is at an advanced stage, and although the
process has been slow indeed, it seems to be moving forward now. The state banks have been
recapitalized, excessive recourse to overdrafts and public enterprise lending has been halted, and the
banks are starting to observe internationally accepted capital adequacy requirements. In housing, the
Government has liquidated most of the construction companies and is moving to privatize the rest. A
commercial mortgage bank has been set up. Institutional arrangements for a more diverse capital market
are being put into place and the Government continues to improve targeting and enhance management of
the social safety net programs.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Preparation. The Bank was heavily involved during preparation of the program. The skill mix
of mission members was appropriate and included macroeconomic, private sector, financial sector, social
safety net, unemployment insurance, and legal specialists. The project built on the results of the ongoing
ERL project and a number of special studies funded by the ERL, including a public expenditure review, a
private sector assessment, two studies on private participation in banking, a review of the social safety
net, and the preliminary results from a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS). Reforms
identified in the 1994 Country Economic Memorandum were reflected in the program which was
designed to be the cornerstone of the Bank's country assistance strategy to Algeria in 1996 and 1997. In
addition to the project team, inputs were provided to the operation from a wide range of Bank and
Government specialists. While preparing the project, Bank staff maintained active consultation with the
IMF, the EU, and key bilateral donors to ensure combined and coordinated financial support for the
Government's reform effort. Insufficient attention was devoted to designing a strategy to deal with the
massive open unemployment problem and the rigidities in the labor market particularly since the tepid
pace of structural reform was dictated largely by the authorities' fears of aggravating unemployment.
25.   Appraisal. The Bank reviewed the project sufficiently but overestimated the Government
institutional capacity. That the prior conditions specified for Board submission were met in full is proof
that the measures were realistic and that Government was committed to a medium-term program of
macroeconomic and structural reform. However, the Bank overestimated the Government's institutional



8
and technical capacity to implement the reform program, especially under the difficult security
circumstances prevailing in Algeria. Preparation for privatization even for the small communal
enterprises proved cumbersome. The first Privatization Law was rigid and inappropriate to privatize the
larger enterprises, and recourse was made to alternative legislation that allowed only partial privatization,
while the Privatization Law was amended. We didn't properly estimate the technical difficulties which
were later encountered in auditing and recapitalizing the state banks, in attracting private participation
into the state banks, in improving the payments system, and in launching a secondary market for
domestic Treasury instruments. Slippage in the implementation of reforms in these areas occurred
because it required the active involvement of international technical experts, who were deterred from
going to Algeria because of the difficult security situation. We didn't forsee this coming. The Bank was
also too accomodating at the time of negotiations which were exceptionally difficult and took more than
three weeks.
26.    Supervision. Extraordinary measures were employed to supervise the project because Bank
staff travel to Algeria was restricted for nearly half of the implementation period. The Bank tried to use
innovative methods to circumvent these constraints. A combination of missions to third countries,
regular phone contacts, and frequent but limited duration missions were used to supervise the project.
Bank supervision was moderately effective in quickly resolving the small number of implementation
problems that arose, providing advice and feedback on special studies and technical assistance activities,
and mounting a number of special studies (e.g., Public Expenditure Review, Poverty Assessment, Tariff
Review, and Private Sector Assessment). Supervision efforts also helped to sensitize the authorities to
best global practices in privatization, through Bank seminars held in Algiers in October 1996 and June
1997.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   Preparation.  The Borrower was closely involved in all aspects of project preparation.
Government coordination committees established to implement reforms launched under the ERL project
played a key role in preparing the project. The authorities cooperated fully to articulate a reform effort
aimed at furthering Algeria's transition to a market economy, based primarily on needed reforms
identified in joint studies such as the Public Expenditure Review, Financial and Capital Market Study,
and a Private Sector Assessment. The Government organized a tripartite meeting with the unions and the
enterprise managers in order to create widespread ownership and understanding of project reforms. An
aggressive public relations campaign was mounted by senior Government officials to explain the reforms
to the population and elicit feedback.
28.   Implementation. The Borrower's performance during implementation was satisfactory, given
the immense difficulties posed by the adverse security situation. However, the Borrower's ability to
manage the policy reform process was hampered by: (a) a lack of timely and accurate data on private
sector activity and living standards, areas in which much progress has been realized lately; (b)
fragmentation of fiscal responsibilities and very inefficient coordination among budgets; (c) restrictions
on international travel, which frustrated attempts to involve international experts in auditing the state
banks, improving bank clearing systems, and launching the stock market; and (d) the priority given to the
political reform process and the organization of the Presidential, Legislative and Local elections at the
expense of the economic reform agenda, and the heavy toll these elections took on the attention and
energy of the bureaucrats in charge of implementing the economic reforms.



9
29.   The Government responded to requests for information from the Bank, but the information
provided was often incomplete and delayed.  Restrictions on access to poverty conditions and
employment information delayed preparation of special studies. Longstanding weaknesses in Algeria's
statistical reporting system were part of the problem, but a reluctance to release "sensitive" statistical
information to the Bank was encountered.
30.   Covenant Compliance. The Government met all specific covenants defined in the Loan
Agreement. The second tranche of the SAL was released on time and the loan was closed on time.
Although often delayed and incomplete, regular economic reports were generally furnished to the Bank
in accordance with the indicators defined in the President's Report.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   The program had a marginally satisfactory outcome because it achieved its major objectives and,
despite problems encountered, is expected 1to achieve, at least partially, its development results. Tight
fiscal and monetary policy have been maintained, inflation has been brought to the single digits, the
balance of payments has improved, and growvth has resumed from after a long negative trend, although it
remains largely insufficient and essentially driven by oil and exceptionally favorable rainfall conditions.
Between 1994 and 1998, about US$16 billion in debt relief was obtained.
32.   Public expenditures have been partly refocused to enhance spending efficiency while protecting
critical social outlays. Recourse to the budget by public enterprises has been minimized; a more flexible
Privatization Law was developed; half of the small, local public enterprises (EPLs) have been liquidated
and their assets sold; past progress in liberalizing trade and exchange arrangements has been maintained
in spite of the stress posed by the deteriorating domestic supply in manufacturing and other sectors; the
private sector started to play a larger role in the housing market; banking soundness has relatively
improved; and social safety net programs are operating more efficiently and are better focused on the
poor, even though they are not keeping pace with the increase in unemployment and the deterioration of
the social situation.
33.    A large share of the credit for macroeconomic recovery, however, is due to the higher world
market and exogenous transitory factors. A  broad-based, private sector supply response to
macroeconomic stability and structural reform has yet to emerge. In part, this can be explained by the
enormous constraints on investment posed by the volatile security situation. But it also reflects the
bottlenecks posed when key sectors of the economy --manufacturing, banking, utilities, construction,
transport-- remain dominated by a public sector that is itself hampered by resource constraints, over-
employment, and a legacy of inefficient management.
34.   Private Sector Development.  Efforts to restore broad-based growth and employment
generation hinge on the transformation of a public sector-dominated economy to a market economy. The
enabling environment for the private sector was improved under the project by reducing inflation,
liquidating a large number of small public enterprises, and limiting Government bailout of SOEs and
crowding-out of private activities. But private sector activity is still largely confined to small-scale and
informal trade and rent-seeking activities. The public sector continues its quasi-monopoly in the
manufacturing, finance, housing, transport, mining, and utilities sectors. The private sector simply cannot
compete with Government in these sectors, and the inefficiency resulting from the large public presence
in the productive sectors renders large segments of the non-hydrocarbon economy globally
uncompetitive. A much deeper privatization effort in banking, manufacturing, housing, and agriculture



10
is needed to enlarge the scope for private sector initiative and to eliminate the bottlenecks posed by
public domination of critical economic services.
35.   Poverty Reduction. The reduction in inflation has helped to protect wages and savings of low-
income households. The new AFS improved payment system and better beneficiary targeting under the
AFS and PAIG programs has helped maintain a real income floor for the poorest groups. Good harvests
have helped protect the poor in low-income rural areas. On the other hand, unemployment rose from
nearly 25 to 29 percent of the labor force and real wages fell throughout the adjustment period. Rising
unemployment can be attributed partly to project-supported privatization efforts, and falling real wages
can be attributed to the knock-on effects of fiscal restraint. Housing rental subsidies were reduced, but
since non-payment rates are so high in Government housing, this has had little tangible effect on the
poor.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.   Political fear of a worsening the unemployment situation, starting from an already very high
level (25 percent) under severe civil unrest, was among the main factors behind the slow pace of reform
in Algeria. The speed and depth of reform are, on the other hand, key to shortening the transitory phase
and bringing a convincing turnaround in the growth, welfare, and positive expectations of the population.
To contain the political and social costs of a swift reform of the production system and its privatization, a
major public works effort that temporarily gives work to a critical number of unemployed workers, and
an active support for the laid-off workers to be through the strengthening of unemployment insurance,
were (and still are) necessary. This would have required major additional resources from the Bank and
other donors, and would have provided a positive incentive to the unions and to the public to support a
more wide-ranging and speedy transition effort.
37.   The sequencing of reforms matters a great deal in the success of the transition. Sequencing trade
and foreign exchange liberalization prior to privatization, and in the absence of private sector
development, has contributed to de-industrialization and could threaten the sustainability of the very
trade and exchange reform itself, especially if the external payments situation worsens. Indeed, trade
was reformed and the exchange rate was liberalized, while the production system continues to be
dominated by non-competitive public enterprises. Domestic production, constrained by the problems
and inefficiencies of the public enterprise system and by a particularly active informal trade system (the
famous Trabendos) simply could not compete with imported manufactured and consumer goods. In the
absence of a supply response from the private sector, which remains constrained by the dominance of the
public sector, the process of de-industrialization has accelerated. To check import growth, the authorities
may likely be obliged to resort to indirect administrative trade restraints, i.e., quality controls, and other
indirect quantitative restrictions practices that defeat the very purpose of trade liberalization reform and
run against the effective integration of Algeria into competitive global markets.
38.   An unbalanced and prolonged focus on stabilization at the expense of structural reforms, and
exaggerated valuation of the improvement of macroeconomic performance indicators, diverted the
authorities attention from the need to mount a rapid and aggressive structural reform effort. The IMF
EFF operation preceded the SAL, was a much larger operation, and focused Government's attention for
three years mostly on the imperative of short-run stabilization. This has somewhat diverted the
authorities' attention from the more fundamental problem of restoring medium-run growth and creating
productive employment through significant withdrawal of the state from the production area, and deep
sectoral reforms. A debilitating economic vicious circle has emerged by which stabilization



11
achievements have started to be fed by poor growth performance and the collapse of the manufacturing
sector (import decline over the last three years has contributed a good deal to balance of payments
performance, and inflation control is being driven more by the decline in demand than by better supply
performance).



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4005-AL)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1:: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial        Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro Policies             DXX            E              Cl             E
Sector Policies           E               DXX            El             E
Financial Objectives       l              CIXX           El             E
Institutional Development    El           DXX            E              E
Physical Objectives       El              El             E              DXX
Poverty Reduction         El              E              DXX            E
Gender Issues             E                              El             DXX
Other Social Objectives   E               DXX            E              E
Environmental Objectives                                  D[XX
Public Sector Management   E              DXX            El             El
Private Sector Management  E              DXX            El             E
Other (Restoring Momentum) E              DXX            E              E
B. Project Sustainability     Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
El             El             OXX
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactorv   Deficient
Identification                    El             DXX             El
Preparation Assistance            El             DXX             E1
Appraisal                         El             DXX            E
Supervision                       El             E XX           E



14
D. Borrower Performance         Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactarv    Deficint
Preparation                         C               CXX             C
Implementation                      C               CXX             13
Covenant Compliance                 C               C XX            Cl
E. Assessment of Outcome                Highly                                          Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactor    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactor
C               CXX             C               C



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose             Year of Approval                Status
Proceeding operations    To restore growth by          August 31, 1989     Closed on December 31,
1. 3117-AL Economic    introducing a more                                  1991; cancellation of US$
Reform Support Loan of    market-oriented economic                          1.2 million.
US$300 million           system.
2. 3352-AL Enterprise    To restore macro-balances      June 21, 1991      Closed on June 30, 1995;
and Financial Sector     through tight fiscal and                          US$350 million was fully
Adjustment Loan of       monetary policy mwhile                            disbursed.
US$350 million           introducing competitive
structural policies and
strengthening the social
safety net.
3. 3834-AL Economic      To accelerate the transition  January 26, 1995    Closed on December 31,
Rehabilitation Support    to a market economy and                           1996; US$150 million was
Loan of US$150 million    mobilize the external                            fully disbursed.
financing necessary to
restore sustained growth.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned       Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    4/28/1995         4/28/1995
Preparation                                  12/13/1995        12/13/1995
Appraisal                                     1/29/1996         1/29/1996
Negotiations                                  3/05/1996         3/05/1996
Board Presentation                            4/25/1996         4/25/1996
Signing                                        5/3/1996          5/3/1996
Effectiveness                                 6/26/1996         6/26/1996
First Tranche                                 6/26/1996         6/26/1996
Second Tranche                                6/30/1997         7/15/1997
Loan Closing                                  4/30/1998         4/30/1998



17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 1996      FY 1997       FY 1998
Appraisal Estimate                             300           300          300
Actual                                         150           150          300
Actual as % of Estimate                        50            50           100
Date of Final Disbursement                  6/26/1996     6/26/1996    7/15/1997
Note: IBRD fiscal year ends on June 30.



18
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Component               Measures taken before           Measures to be taken before            Measures to be taken                   Implementation Status
May 1, 1995              presentation of the SAL to the         before the release of the
Board                        Second Tranche
Macroeconomic Framework                                     Maintenance of a macroeconomic         Maintenance of a macro-         EFF criteria have been met and all purchases under
framework in accordance with the EFF.  economic framework in          the arrangement have taken place on schedule.
accordance with the EFF.       Real GDP grew by 3.9% in 1995, 3.8% in 1996,
and 0% in 1997. A current account surplus in 1996
and 1997 enabled official reserves to rebound to 8
months of import cover. A budget surplus of 3% of
GDP in 1996 and 2.3% of GDP in 1997 eased
demand pressures and brought end-year inflation to
15% in 1996, 6% in 1997, and a projected 4% for
1998. From 1994-1998, the money supply grew by
less than 20 percent per annum and net credit to
Govemment declined every year.
Foreign Exchange &           Dinar convertibility achieved for
Trade Regime                 most trade-related transactions;
elimination of remaining
professional criteria requirements
for importers.
Budgetary Policy             Reduction of budget deficit from  Submission to the Bank of a Government                              The 1996 and 1997 budgets were jointly reviewed
8.9 percent of GDP in 1993 to 4.4  investment program and plan for recurrent                          with the Bank and the main PER recommendations
percent in 1994.               Govemment expenditures for 1996 in the                                 incorporated. In 1996, this included a 130 percent
health, education, transport, and housing                             increase in basic health expenditures, an increase in
sectors, in accordance with the Public                                pharmaceutical expenditures, reallocation of
Expenditure Review (PER).                                             investment outlays from rail transport to housing,
[Note: major measures already taken                                   and a freeze on net Govemment employment.
include: zero net recruitment of teachers;                            Health and education spending were protected from
an increase of 150 percent in the budget                              spending cuts in 1996 and 1997, and a better
for teacher training and retraining; 75                               balance struck between cufrent and capital
percent increase in pharmaceutical                                    spending in the social sectors. Careful scrutiny of
expenditures; 130 percent increase in                                 80 ongoing public investments in 1996 and 1997
preventative medicine expenditures;                                   led to a focusing of the PSIP on 50 priority public
launching of pilot operations for                                     investments. Foreign participation is being sought
subcontracting with private sector for food                           for infrastructure projects, such as the Algiers
and cleaning services in the health sector;                           metro, airport, east-west freeway, industrial zones,
halting construction of Algiers metro;                                and energy generation and distribution projects.
reallocation of part of planned
infrastructure investments to housing.                                In terms of new commitments, the Restructuring
Fund was closed on December 29, 1996. In terms
Stabilization of recruitment for the civil                            of disbursements, the Restructuring Fund was
service, in accordance with the EFF.                                  closed in March 1997 as programmed. DA 10



19
Component               Measures taken before           Measures to be taken before            Measures to be taken                   Implementation Status
May 1, 1995              presentation of the SAL to the         before the release of the
Board                        Second Tranche
billion from the Fund will be used to recapitalize
the Development Bank (BADR) in 1998.
Presentation to the Bank of the  In 1996 and 1997 Govemment operated a zero net
program of personnel           recruitment policy for civil servants. That, plus
expenditures for the civil service    prudent wage controls, caused total personnel
proposed for 1997 budget,      expenditure to fall to 8.9 percent of GDP in 1997.
comprising the measures agreed    These policies exceeded EFF conditionality and
jointly and satisfying to both  were consistent with PER recommendations to
parties in the context of the PER.   reduce the public sector wage bill.
Budgetary policy             Agreement on the timetable for  Progress toward closure of the        Presentation to the Bank of a   Greater efficiency of the civil service (the largest
(continued)                  the closure of the Restructuring  Restructuring Fund in accordance with  program to improve the       public employer), is to be achieved through a
Fund Appendix B, Annex 1, ERL    agreed timetable. Note: three measures in   efficiency of the civil service and   review of social sector strategy together with the
Letter of Development Policy)  the matrix - the above measure, the    implement of a first set of     founding of a Ministry of Civil Service and
passage of the remaining large public  measures agreed jointly.       Administrative Reform. Both initiatives are in line
enterprises to autonomy (see Public    Progress toward the closure of  with PER recommendations. Administrative
Enterprise Keform), and constraints on  Restructuring Fund in accordance  reform in 1997 led to the abolition or streamlining
banks to maintain prudential ratios (see  with agreed timetable.      of 51 Government entities.
Financial Sector) impose hard budget
constraints on public enterprises.
Private Sector Support &
Reform of Public Enterprises
Privatization                Drafting of privatization law, in    Promulgation of privatization law.  Joint review of the privatization    A Privatization Law was passed in April 1996 and
consultation with the Bank (ERL)                                      process based on these          amended in April 1997 to provide more flexible
Promulgation the implementing texts, as    implementing texts and their  pricing, ease labor dismissal terms, and broaden the
agreed in consultation with the Bank;  improvement, if necessary.     scope to include large enterprises. None of the
creation of the institutions foreseen in the                          privatizations of 1996 and 1997 was under the
law for management of the privatization  Completion of initial program of   framework of the new law. A Bank seminar on
process.                               privatization (including       privatization lessons was held, and inspired the
concessions).                  authorities to adopt best practices, including
Implementation of an initial privatization                            employee participation and mass privatization.
program, including bringing 103       Establishment of a second
communal-level public enterprises to the    privatization program.    Of the 274 communal and local public enterprises
point of sale, offering 35 communal                                   (EPLs), 117 were liquidated or privatized by the
activities for private sector operation by  Bring to the point of sale (sale of   end of 1996. Lack of demand for some firms,
concession, bringing to the point of sale    the whole enterprise, sale of units  unresolved legal questions regarding some
(selling the units, opening to capital or  of enterprises, opening to  enterprises, and administrative delays hindered
operation by the private sector through  capital), operation by the private   implementation. The sale of the Hilton Hotel in
management contracts) 50 units of      sector through concession or   Algiers and profit-sharing management contracts
national public enterprises (EPEs),   management contracting          for two cement plants were high-profile
privatization of the management of two  arrangements, or dissolution of  privatization efforts.
Government-owned hotels, and dissolution  parts, accepted by both parties, of
of 84 local public enterprises (EPLs).  this second program.          For the second privatization effort, the target of 276
enterprises to be brought to the point of sale or



20
Component               Measures taken before           Measures to be taken before             Measures to be taken                  Implementation Status
May 1, 1995              presentation of the SAL to the         before the release of the
Board                        Second Tranche
liquidated has been surpassed. By April 1997, a
total of 367 EPLs were dissolved. The unsold
EPLs have been transferred to five regional holding
companies to prepare for eventual privatization.
The 1998 privatization program includes 250 of the
largest public enterprises (EPEs) and accounts for
about one-third of SOE output.
Agricultural Sector Reform   State lands under socialist state  Presentation to the Bank of the                                    Government's agricultural policy was presented
farms distributed to individual and  Government's agricultural sector policy,                         and reviewed with the Bank.
collective farms with usufruct  notably concerning agricultural land and
rights but without property rights.  the privatization of public enterprises in                       Law 95-20 on land restitution was promulgated.
the sector.
Draft legislation defining the procedures on
Promulgation of legislation authorizing the                           privatization of state agriculture land, acceptable to
restitution of agriculture land donated to                            the Bank was adopted by the Council of
the State (Law No 95-25).                                             Government and submitted, in late 1997, to the
Parliament. The law transforms usufruct rights of
nationalized land into private property rights.
Public Enterprise Reform     Transition to autonomy of 5 large   Rule definitively on the future (immediate   Adoption by the Council of  About half the 1,300 EPLs have been liquidated
previously non-autonomous      passage to autonomy, redeployment, or  Government of a draft law       and the balance transferred to five regional holding
public enterprises.            dissolution) of the remaining large non-  defining the modes of        companies for restructuring and eventual
autonomous public enterprises in       privatization and state-owned  privatization. Even holding companies were
conformity with the framework set out in    agricultural land.        established for 300 of the largest public enterprises,
the ERL.                                                              and strategies have been prepared for their
restructuring and eventual privatization. The legal
Creation of institutions necessary for                                framework for holding companies was established
implementation of the law creating                                    in 1996.
holding companies to manage public
enterprises, notably:                                                 The holding companies were authorized to sell all
*   Promulgation of the bylaws of the                                 or part of their assets, and to retain the proceeds
holding companies.                                               from the asset sales. Quarterly adjustments to
*   Establishment of the technical                                    transport and utility tariffs improved the financial
support unit for the CNPE.                                       performance of the largest state enterprises in 1997
In conformity with the objectives set out                             and 1998.
in the Letter of Development Policy.
Design, in consultation with the Bank, a  Regular monitoring of the inter-    Data on bank overdrafts to large borrowers,
system to monitor the inter-enterprise  enterprise debts of public    including most of the large public enterprises,
debts of public enterprises.           enterprises.                   amounted to 26.3 days of turnover, and within the
limit of a one-month ceiling on overdrafts to state
enterprises agreed to with the Bank. Procedures for
monitoring inter-enterprise debts and overdraft
measures were agreed to with the Bank.



21
Component               Measures taken before           Measures to be taken before            Measures to be taken                   Implementation Status
May 1, 1995              presentation of the SAL to the         before the release of the
Board                        Second Tranche
Incentive Framework         Promulgation of a competition   Drafting of the implementing regulations,                              The implementing regulations of the competition
law.                           in consultation with the Bank, and                                     law were published after consultation with the
publication of all these texts.                                       Bank.
The transfer of unsold EPL and ERL assets to
holding companies has clarified the legal status of
these enterprises, easing legal barriers to
privatization.
Promulgation of the new        Carry out a general program to clarify and   Review progress of program to  A program to clarify to regularize property titles
investment code.               regularize property titles.            clarify and regularize property  was mounted in both 1996 and 1997.
titles for industrial and
Installation of the Agency for the    Enactment of legal texts permitting lease    commercial enterprises and adopt  Leasing and factoring legislation were promulgated
Promotion and Support of       financing of capital equipment.        if needed, measures jointly     in 1996.
Investment.                                                           agreed to improve this program.
Promulgation of a decree permitting
Ovening of one-stop information    factorinz.
window for potential investors,
Housing Reform               Freeing of construction prices for   Adoption by the Government and   Evaluate of the private sector  The new public housing strategy and financing
social housing.                presentation to the Bank of a new national  share in the 1995 public housing    strategy for 1996 and 1997 was provided to the
housing strategy.                      program and an increase in     Bank and shows a steady increase in the private
10 percent increase in subsidized                                     private sector share of the 1996  sector share of new housing construction from 54%
rents.                         Implementation of measures designed to    program                      in 1995 to 77% in 1996.
increase participation of the private sector
Adoption of a plan to restructure   in the execution of the 1995 public  Execution of the 1996 public  The Ministry of Housing has agreed to steps to
CNEP, the national housing     housing program.                       housing program following the   improve targeting of social housing during the
finance institution.                                                  financing plan and timetable    second half of 1997. Housing rents were increased
Adoption by the Government and         agreed with the Bank.          by 15% in November 1996 and 20% in March
presentation to the Bank of a financial                               1997. In April 1997, the Central Bank agreed to
plan and a timetable for the 1996 public  Presentation to the Bank of a  transform the housing finance agency (CNEP) into
housing program.                       financial plan and a timetable for   a mortgage bank, and draft bylaws for a housing
the 1997 public housing program   loan refinancing agency were developed.
Government agreed that housing subsidies will be
made explicit in the 1998 budget, that large public
construction companies will be liquidated, and that
all urban property will be sold by auction, starting
in 1998, with the proceeds used to fund a slum-
upgrading program.
Financial Sector             Replacement of interest rate    Elimination of the ceiling on bank margins  Maintenance by the public banks   Audits of the five state banks proceeded slowly and
ceilings on bank loans by a                                           of acceptable capital adequacy  had to be undertaken without the physical presence
maximum 5 percent margin.      Determination of bank capital          ratios.                         of auditors in Algeria; 1993 audits were completed.
requirements to meet minimum capital
thresholds, on the basis of end-1993
audits, in consultation with the Bank.



22
Component               Measures taken before           Measures to be taken before            Measures to be taken                   Implementation Status
May 1, 1995              presentation of the SAL to the         before the release of the
Board                        Second Tranche
Recapitalization of the five public banks                             By end-1997, all banks had been recapitalized to
and payment of the capital contributions as                           meet an agreed interim capital-asset ratio of 4
foreseen in the 1995 Government budget.                               percent. Three banks had been recapitalized to
meet a capital adequacy norm of 8 percent of risk
weighted assets. The Development Bank (BAD) is
to be split up into a series of specialized institutions
in 1998.
Adoption of a model management  Signature and implementation of       Adoption, in consultation with  Management contracts for the five public banks
contract between the Ministry of    management contracts for the five public   the Bank and launching ofjointly   have been concluded and proposals for privatizing
Finance and managers of publicly   banks.                             agreed program for the opening    the Rural Development Bank (BADR) have been
owned banks, holding the                                              of the capital and/or the private    reviewed with the Bank.
managers responsible for       Completion of study and presentation to  management of at least one of the
respecting capital adequacy    the Bank of a draft proposal for private  five existing private banks  The Govemment has opened the capital of the
requirements.                  share ownership and/or private                                         Local Development Bank (BDL) to private
management of at least one of the five  Adoption and introduction, in  participation in 1997, but this approach attracted
existing public banks.                consultation with the Bank, of  little interest. A different approach was suggested
accounting regulations and     by external consultants, but these recommendations
evaluation norms for transactions   were not acted upon. Two new private banks, with
in financial securities.       foreign partners, were established in 1997.
The Central Bank has established improved
accounting regulations and evaluation norms for
financial security transactions.
Redesign of the structure of new
issues of Govemment securities,
in conformity with the principles
agreed in the context of the
Capital Market Study.
Adoption and introduction of   Adoption and introduction of instructions
accounting and calculation     concerning open foreign exchange
standards for commercial bank  positions of commercial banks and other
transactions in foreign exchange.   financial institutions.
Adoption of the regulations and  Adoption, in consultation with Bank, of  Establishment of an operational    The issuance and negotiation of new Treasury
procedures for the auctioning of    instructions conceming the issuance and    system for the auction of  securities was established in consultation with the
new Treasury bills and bonds.  the negotiation of the new Treasury    Treasury bills and bonds;       Bank. An operational system for the auctioning of
securities.                           establishment of the requirements  Treasury bills and bonds started in mid-1997. A
for Treasury security dealers; to    secondary market in Treasury bills has yet to
support the development of a   emerge.
secondary market, establishment
of payment mechanisms for
transactions in Treasury
securities.



23
Component              Measures taken before           Measures to be taken before            Measures to be taken                  Implementation Status
May 1, 1995              presentation of the SAL to the        before the release of the
Board                        Second Tranche
Submission of a summary report on the  Introduction of the plan to   Plans were made to improve the bank clearing
action program to upgrade the bank check   improve the performance of the    system, but little actual progress was made in this
clearing and fund transfer system,    bank check clearing and fund   area.
including the relevant data.         transfer system, attainment of
pre-established objectives.    The establishment of a limit of one-month on the
Establishment of quantitative targets for                            overdrafts to the largest public enterprises helped
the reduction in commercial bank      Attainment of the pre-established   reverse the trend towards overdraft escalation in the
overdrafts granted to the economy.    objective for the reduction of  banking system.
overdrafts granted to the
economy.
Adoption of amendments to the Stock   Execution of the planned work  Amendments were made to the stock market law in
Market Law (1) authorizing an over-the-    program.                  accordance with Bank recommendations.
counter secondary market in Treasury
securities, (2) authorizing stock exchange                           A Securities Market Management corporation was
members to trade in other security                                   created in March 1997 and a Commission on Stock
markets, (3) relieving stock exchange                                Market Organization and Supervision was
members of the responsibility to account                             launched. Intemational consultants were hired in
for the origin of their clients funds.                               1997 to help Govemment establish a well-
functioning securities commission. Regulations
Putting into place of the COSOB                                      for IPOs, investment funds, and stock broker
(Exchange Comm) and establishment of                                 licensing have been included in the work program
its work program, notably staff training,                            of the Commission.
allocation of staff functions, and drafting
of regulations for public offerings,                                 A new payments system for the AFS, through a tie-
operations of investment funds, and                                  in with the postal system, establishes shorter
licensing of stock brokers.                                          monthly payment periods. Other income transfer
efforts have been combined in the AFS and better
Implementation of new social safety net    Implementation of measures  beneficiary targeting brought down the number
measures.                             designed to strengthen the three    receiving AFS support from 600,000 in 1996 to
programs.                      520,000 in the first quarter of 1997.
The self-targeting mechanism of the PAIG program
was enhanced by enforcing the "full days" work for
a "half days" pay policy. PAIF participation
dropped from 580,000 in 1995 to about 100,000
persons in 1997
Launching of new social safety  Based on the results ofjoint studies with    Step-by-step implementation, in    The unemployment insurance program was
net measures -job loss insurance,  the Bank, adoption of measures necessary   consultation with the Bank, of an   operational in 1996, 1997 and 1998. The Caisse
public works program (PAIG) and  to strengthen the three programs.   autonomous social development   Nationale dAssurance Chomage (CNAC)
cash assistance for those not able                                   agency.                        cumulated reserves sufficient to finance an
to work (AFS).                 Presentation to the Bank of a draft                                  estimated 200,000 layoffs each year.
executive decree creating and establishing   Based on the results of the LSMS
the bylaws of a social development    and/or the Poverty Assessment,
agency.                               and, in consultation with the
Bank, development and adoption
of a program to improve the



24
Component                Measures taken before             Measures to be taken before              Measures to be taken                     Implementation Status
May 1, 1995               presentation of the SAL to the           before the release of the
Board                          Second Tranche
social protection system for the
poorest groups.
Social Safety Net             Launch LSMS in collaboration      Agreement conceming the Bank's                                            Using the LSMS results and an evaluation of social
with the Bank.                   analytical use of the LSMS data, based on                                 safety net programs, in 1997 the Govemment
terms and conditions established in                                       developed a strategy for improving social
advance with ONS, the national statistical                                protection, including better targeting of housing,
office.                                                                   health care, and education support for the poor.



25
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators                       Actual 1996                            1997 Estimates
in President Report
Macro-economic Framework
1.  GDP Growth                                            3.8                                       0
2.  Industrial Growth                                     -7.2                                     -7.4
3.  Imports (billion US$)                                 9.1                                      8.8
4.  Exports (billion US$)                                 13.2                                     13.9
5.  Consumer price index (average)                        18.7                                     6.1
6.  Re-discount rate (monthly)                             20                                       18
7.  Interest rates anbd dinar amounts from
credit auctioning sessions (monthly)
8.  Average inter-bank market rates
(Monthly)
9.  For. exchange reserves (billion US$)                  4.23                                      8
10. Foreign exchange rates                                56.2                                     57.9
11. Credit to economy (bill. dinar)                       777                                      898
12. Credit to public enterprises                                                                                         l
13. Credit to 23 large, previously non-                                                                                  l
autonomous public enterprises
14. Credit to 10 food product import                      231                                      na
agencies
Reform of Public Expenditures
1.  Treasury balance (quarterly)          budget balance of DH 100 billion surplus  budget balance of DH 83 billion surplus
2.  Expenditures of the Restructuring Fund                 24                                    18/closed
(billion dinar)
3.  Capital & current expenditures, overall   presented in the Public Expenditure Review    presented in the Public Expenditure Review
and by sector (those sectors covered by
the Public Expenditure Review
(quarterly)
Private Sector Development & Public
Enterprise Reform
1.  Projected shares of sectoral private                 23%                                       na
value added industry.
2.  Registered requests for enterprises
creation at APSI:
- (number)                                           556                                      1227
- projected employment                              48,755                                   81,766
- value in Mill. DA                                 81,459                                   86,330
3.  Import-weighted average tariff rate (six               19                                       19
months)
4.  Average Wage in Industry (AD)                        16,690                                   20,217
Financial Sector Reform
I .  Share of bank credit in the financing of        31.5% of GDP                             30.6% of GDP
the economy (quarterly)
2.  Capital ratio to banks (annual)                       4 %                                      4%
Strengthening of social safety net system
1.  Number of beneficiaries of early     600,000 in the PAIG program at the start of    520,000 in the PAIG program in mid-1997
retirement and unemployment                          1996
insurance programs (six months)
2.  Number of beneficiaries of the social    580,C00 in the AFS program in 1996      100,000 in the AFS program in 1997
safety net: AFS and PAIG (six months)



26
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at           Status              Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Poverty Assessment Study  To map poverty incidence and     Completed      Helped Government define its
improve relief targeting                         poverty strategy and better defme
a social safety net strategy
Labor Force Study        To assess labor market             Ongoing       Study is still in progress, but parts
performance to help design                       of the study, related to the
competitiveness enhancing                        informal sector, are advanced.
reforms, to investigate factors
causing rigidities in the labor
market, and to underpin a public
works program aimed at
combating unemployment.
Tariff Review            To rationalize tariff and trade   Completed      Was the basis for Algeria to
policy to increase global market                support negotiations for WTO
integration                                      admission and to start
negotiations with the EU for a
Free Trade Agreement
Public Expenditure       To identify priorities for fiscal  Completed    Identified a wide range of
Reform                  reform.                                           measures aimed at enhancing the
efficiency and effectiveness of
public spending, which were
incorporated into the 1996 and
1997 budgets. Fiscal strategies
for improving external debt
management and the management
of fluctuations in hydrocarbon
earnings were adopted by
Government. Follow-up
measures for civil service
restructuring were launched.
Private Sector Assessment  To advise on future policy     An update is    Is ongoing as a part of a series of
reformns required to advance       ongoing       sectoral country assistance
private sector activity and to                  strategies.
assess privatization demand.



27
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal EJstimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign   TOTAL
Costs     Costs               Costs     Costs
Item
Balance of Payments Support                300       300                 300        300
TOTAL                                      300       300                 300        300



28
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign   TOTAL
Costs     Costs               Costs      Costs
Source
IBRD/IDA                                   300        300                 300        300
Government of Algeria
TOTAL                                      300        300                 300        300



29
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement             Section            Covenant         Original     Revised        Status            Description of Covenant               Comments
Type          Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
L4005 AL            Section 3.01 (a)             9           periodic     periodic    complied with   Parties shall exchange views on progress.   no comment
L4005 AL            Section 3.01 (b)             9           periodic     periodic    complied with   Borrower shall furnish progress reports.    no comment
L4005 AL            Section 3.01 (c)             9           April 30,    April 30,    complied      Borrower and Bank shall carry out a    no comment
1998        1998                        review for the purpose of evaluating
progress achieved.
L4005 AL            Section 3.02 (a)             I           April 30,    April 30,    complied      The Borrower shall have the Deposit   no comment
1998        1998                        Accounts audited.
L4005 AL            Section 3.02 (b)             I           Oct. 30,                 not yet due    The Borrower shall furnish a copy of the    no comment
1998                                    certified audit report to the Bank.
L4005 AL            Section 3.02 (c)             I           periodic     periodic    complied with   Fumish to the Bank reasonable        no comment
information concerning the Deposit
Accounts.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with   Continued maintenance of a           Concurrence of the IMF
macro-framework                          1997         1997                       macroeconomic framework satisfactory to   under the EFF was
the Bank.                             obtained.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with   Submission and joint review of the 1997    Bank provided draft and
Budgetary Policy                         1997         1997                       Budget and Public Investment Program.    comments incorporated
into final budgets.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with   Progress toward closure of the       Fund committients halted
Budgetary Policy                         1997         1997                       Restructuring Fund.                   in 1997.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with   Carrying out part of the Second      Largely a liquidation
Privatization                            1997         1997                       Privatization Program.                effort.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with   Council of Government adoption of draft   Legislation was deemed
Agriculture                              1997         1997                      legislation to privatize state-owned land.    acceptable to the Bank.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with   Reduction of outstanding overdrafts to  Overdrafts reduced to one
Financial Sector                         1997         1997                       State-owned Banks.                    month for SOEs.
L4005 AL            Section 2.02 (d)             9           June 30,     June 30,    complied with  Implementation of measures to strengthen   Reduced payment periods
Social Safety Net                        1997         1997                       PAID, AFS, and Unemployment           improved program
Insurance, and using the LSMS findings to  delivery, and better
improve social assistance targeting.  targeted reduced public
works participants. LSMS
used to define a national
poverty strategy.
Covenant Class: I Accounts/audit; 3 Flow and utilization of project funds; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting.



31
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Statements in the Operational Manual
(OD or OP/BP) was observed under the project.
Statement Number and Title               Description and Comment on lack of
compliance
Not Applicable



32
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned              Revised                   Actual
Weeks       US$ (Thous)   Weeks    US$ (Thous)   Weeks   US$ (Thous)
Preparation to Appraisal   38         159.2         28.1        103.7        29.2       107.9
Appraisal-Board            23          77.2          36.7       115.7          35       129.9
Negotiations through        6          17.3          13.7        33.3        14.7        44.6
Board Approval
Supervision                69        248.3            54        239.1          55      205.8
Completion                  8          19.5            7         17.1         5.8        17.6
TOTAL                    143.9        521.5         140.9       508.9       139.6      505.8
Source: World Bank Management Information System.



33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/Year    No. of    Days in         Specialized     Performance          Types of
Project Cycle                   Persons    'Field       Staff Skills       Rating           Problems
Represented
Pre-appraisal       8/95           4          20      (3! Economists      s       s
Social
Appraisal           2/96           6          58      (4) Economists
Social
Legal
Supervision         7/96           5          52      (3) Economists      s       s
10/96          5          59          Finance         S       S
Privatization
(2) Macro
6/97           4         12       (3) Economist      S    Sl
Social
Completion          5/98            1         3         Economist         S    S
Sources: World Bank Management Information System, Form 590s.



