Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6855-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
E CUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
APRIL 4, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency = Algerian Dinar (DA)
1992       1993        1994       1995      JAN 1996
DA per US$, period average  21.84     23.34       35.06       47.66     53.00
DA per US$, end of period   22.78     24.12       42.89       52.17     53.77
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFS          Allocation Forfaitaire de Solidarite (public assistance payments to the elderly
and handicapped)
ASAL         AgricuJture Sector Adjustment Loan
BOP          Balance of Payments
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CNEP         Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (National Housing Finance
Institution)
CNPE         Conseil Nationale de Participation de l'Etat (governing body for the state
holding companies)
COSOB        Commission d'Organisation et de Surveillance des Operations de Bourse
(Exchange Commission)
EFF          Extended Fund Facility
EPE          Entreprise Publique Economique (Autonomous Public Enterprise)
EPL          Entreprise Publique Locale (Local Public Enterprise)
EPS          Entreprise Publique Socialiste (Non-autonomous Public Enterprise)
ERL          Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan
EU           European Union
FA           Fonds d'assainissement (Restructuring Fund)
ICOR         Incremental Capital Output Ratio
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LSMS         Living Standards Measurement Survey
ONS          Office National des Statistiques (National Statistical Office)
PAIG         Programme d'Activites d'Interet General (self-targeted public assistance
program)
PE           Public Enterprise
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PSA          Private Sector Assessment
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
VAT          Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAI, ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Program Summary .................... i
PART I:   Recent Developments and Prospects .1
A. Background .1
B.    Performance under the Renewed Reform Program .2
C.    Medium-term Prospects and Financing Plan.                              8
PART II:      The Government's Adjustment Strategy        ..10
A. Macroeconomic Program                            .II
B.    Major Elements of the Adjustment Program .12
PART III:    Algeria's Social Safety Net Strategy .18
PART  IV:     The  Proposed  Loan   ........................................  19
A.    Program to be Supported and Link to the Country
Assistance  Strategy    ...................................   19
B.    Poverty Impact ..........           ........................... 20
C.    Negotiations, Effectiveness, and Proposed Tranche Conditionality  ..... 20
D.    Procurement, Disbursement, Financial Management, and Auditing ..... 22
E.    Cofinancing .       ....................................... 23
F.     Environmental Assessment .............................. 23
G.    Program Benefits and Risks  ............................. 23
PART V:  Recommendation ........... 24
ANNEXES
A.    Social Indicators of Development
B.    Key Economic Indicators, 1986-95
C.    Status of Bank Group Operations
D.    Government Letter of Development Policy
Attachment 1 -- List of Monitorable Indicators
Attachment 2-- Matrix of Actions
Attachment 3 -- Restructuring Fund
MAP: IBRD No. 21836
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Structural Adjustment Loan
Summary of Proposed Loan and Program
Borrower:                          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Amount:                            US$300 million equivalent.
Terms:                             Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Loan Objectives:                   The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) is the central
element in the Bank's assistance strategy for Algeria. This
strategy aims to support the Algerian authorities in:  (i)
stimulating private-sector-led growth; (ii) protecting the poor
during the transition to a market-based economy; and (iii)
enhancing the country's ability to mobilize external resources.
The SAL builds on progress made under the recent Economic
Rehabilitation Support Loan, under which the Algerian
authorities made tangible progress in adjustment and met many
of the agreed objectives, including the adoption of a privatization
law, sooner than anticipated.
Loan Description:                  The loan supports an adjustment program that is moving Algeria
closer to its goal of an open, market-based economy in the
context of growth and increased employment.   The key
components of the program  include:  (i) macroeconomic
stabilization and rationalization of public expenditures; (ii)
support for public enterprise reform and private sector
development, including: large-scale privatization of small public
enterprises, where local demand exists; further reforms designed
to limit the losses of large public enterprises and ready them for
privatization;  increased   private-sector  participation  in
subcontracting and in the provision of municipal services; and
financial sector reform designed to increase competition and
create needed new financial instruments; and (iii) support for the
already successfully implemented new social protection system,
including some measures to improve its performance. All of the
specific measures to be supported by the SAL are outlined in the
government's Letter of Development Policy and are listed in the
attached policy matrix.



- ii -
Benefits:                          The key benefit would be to contribute, in conjunction with the
IMF's ongoing EFF program, to the reversal of ten years of
economic decline in Algeria through a more efficient use of
economic resources. The actions to be supported by this loan
would clearly demonstrate the authorities' commitment to move
quickly in establishing the necessary conditions for a market-
based economy.
Risks:                             The risks are great, most notably the security-related risks. The
difficult security situation complicates the process of structural
adjustment and reform. These risks cannot be totally offset.
However, the fact that the authorities have taken most of the
major actions required under the loan before Board presentation
minimizes, to the extent possible, the risk of policy reversal.
Many of these actions, including privatization of small-scale
enterprises, will create a constituency for further reform and are
likely to keep Algeria on the path toward a market-based
economy.
Disbursements:                     The Structural Adjustment Loan will disburse in two tranches of
US$150 million each. The first will be available upon loan
effectiveness.  The release of the second tranche will be
conditional on satisfactory macroeconomic performance (notably
compliance with EFF conditionality) and satisfactory progress on
adjustment, including the fulfillment of a limited number of
specific measures. The expected date for second tranche release
is 12 months after loan effectiveness.
Poverty Category:                  Poverty focused; the loan acknowledges the efforts of the
Algerian authorities in successfully implementing their new
social safety net programs, designed to minimize possible
negative impacts of adjustment on the poor, notably as a result
of the removal of inefficient and costly generalized price
subsidies. The two new programs, targeted payments to the
elderly and handicapped without other income and a self-targeted
labor-based income transfer program for those able to work are
in operation. The loan supports further improvements in the
social safety net, including actions to improve the functioning of
the above two programs.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
for the equivalent of US$300 million in support of a program of structural reform and privatization. The
Loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years, including five
years of grace. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy was presented to the Board on February 27,
1996 (Report No. 15316-AL).
I. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
A.    Background
2.           After independence in 1962, Algeria followed a central planning model of growth
characterized by heavy industrialization and extensive social infrastructure development.  The
development program relied heavily on hydrocarbon revenues. During this period, Algeria achieved
important social progress. Illiteracy was reduced, life expectancy increased, and primary school
enrollment reached close to 100 percent. By the end of the 1970s, however, there were clear signs that
the model followed had resulted in an inefficient allocation of resources and presented poor growth
prospects. Productivity was low in spite of investment/output ratios from 40 to more than 50 percent,
on a par with the high-growth East Asian countries. Shortages were common and a flourishing informal
sector had emerged.
3.           The sharp fall in oil prices in 1986 triggered the crisis. Hydrocarbon exports fell from
US$12.7 billion in 1985 to an average of US$7.7 billion in 1986-88. The authorities initially used
external borrowing to maintain consumption. In two years, the total stock of external debt rose from
US$18 billion to more than US$24 billion; most of this new borrowing fell at the short end of the
maturity spectrum. Realizing that the situation was unsustainable, the Algerian Government took initial
steps to liberalize the system, both on the political and the economic front. A wide number of policy
measures were undertaken, ranging from the dismantling of state farms to the removal of barriers to
foreign investment, increasing the private sector's access to credit and foreign exchange, and the abolition
of state import monopolies. In addition, most public enterprises (PEs) became autonomous, collective
bargaining was decentralized, and the central bank was given much greater autonomy in monetary policy.
The IMF and the World Bank actively supported these reforms. The Bank's support included two
adjustment operations, an Economic Reform Support Loan approved in 1989 and an Economic and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan approved in 1991.
4.           However, the institutional reforms failed to reverse the economic decline. The main
reasons for the lack of a supply response were: (i) little change in incentives for public sector managers;
(ii) a financial sector not equipped to cope with the new demands placed on it; and (iii) a public
bureaucracy that maintained its orientation of control, rather than facilitation, of private sector
development. For example, private sector access to foreign exchange improved but was limited and
erratic, as demonstrated by the large gap, as much as 300 percent, between the official and parallel
market rates from 1990 to 1993. Unemployment increased from 17 percent in 1986 to 21 percent in



- 2 -
1991. An already serious housing shortage worsened to the point that the average occupancy rate per
unit is now more than eight.
5.            The period 1992-1993 was marked by increasing civil strife and some important reversals
of economic policy. Import controls were implemented in order to ration foreign exchange -- the private
sector was virtually excluded from access -- and to generate resources to cope with the service of the
external debt; the debt service ratio reached 73 percent in 1993. However, arrears began to appear
despite these efforts and despite the government's attempt to restructure debt on a bilateral basis with key
creditors. Access to foreign credit became more and more difficult. Planned adjustment and structural
reform measures were delayed. Subsidies and wage expenditures soared, culminating in a fiscal deficit
of 8.7 percent of GDP in 1993. In spite of these outlays, private consumption per capita fell by 4 percent
and per capita output dropped 5 percent. The authorities faced an untenable economic situation.
B.    Performance under the Renewed Reform Program
6.            The initiation of the current reform process. In 1994, in response to the emerging
national consensus on the need for major structural reform, the authorities implemented an intensified
stabilization and adjustment program. The program was based on 3 pillars: (i) stabilization of the
economy; (ii) relaunching and deepening the postponed structural reform needed in order to accelerate
the transition to a market economy; while at the same time, (iii) taking actions to reverse the debilitating
decline in living standards and to protect the poor during the transition. These actions included an
increase in the current account deficit to make room for imports necessary to stimulate growth. The
Algerian Government needed and received the support of the international community. In March 1994,
the IMF Executive Board approved a one year stand-by arrangement and a request for a purchase under
the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility totaling SDR731.5 million (about US$1 billion).
This agreement was followed in early June by a rescheduling of Algeria's official bilateral debt at the
Paris Club. World Bank assistance for structural reform came in the form of an Economic Rehabilitation
Support Loan (ERL) of US$150 million, approved on January 12, 1995.
7.            The stabilization program for 1994/95 backed by the IMF and World Bank focused on
reducing macroeconomic imbalances and, at the same time, establishing the basis for a sound and credible
program of transition to a market economy. Its main objectives were: moderation of the inflation rate;
fiscal restraint; exchange rate realignment; and further domestic price liberalization. The policy package
included, among others measures: an important devaluation (80 percent and a further devaluation since
then to 100 percent) of the exchange value of the dinar; elimination of most non-tariff trade and exchange
restrictions; the reduction of subsidies on energy and food products; freeing the prices on agricultural
inputs; imposing a ceiling on the central government wage bill; limits on bank credit to the non-
autonomous PEs; and removal of the ceiling on bank lending rates. Special provisions in the program
aimed at reducing the impact of the adjustment on the poorest segment of the population. Under the
ERL, reform measures agreed with the government included private sector development measures, a very
small pilot privatization program, restructuring of the largest public enterprises, public expenditure
reform, financial sector reform, and strengthening of the social protection system.
8.            The Algerian authorities have clearly demonstrated that they are serious in the pursuit of
meaningful adjustment. They met all the conditions of the Fund stand-by arrangement. They also
undertook the measures foreseen under the ERL, in several cases ahead of schedule (notably the passage
of a privatization law). When unexpected expenditure pressures arose at midyear, the authorities
undertook corrective action to raise revenues (advancing cuts in subsidies) and to reduce expenditures



- 3 -
(delaying wage increases) to keep the program on track. In spite of good policy performance, growth
was a disappointing -1.2 percent of GDP in 1994. Two key factors contributed to the poor outcome:
a drought reduced agricultural output, and the expected increase in imports came too late in the year to
contribute to growth. The delay was in part the result of the difficulties faced by Algerian banks in
maintaining access to short-term credit after the Paris Club rescheduling.
9.            Algeria's achievements through this first year of renewed adjustment were important (see
column 1 of Table 1). Prices are substantially free. The external trading system is open; for the first
time, the private sector has access to foreign exchange on a market basis for trade transactions. The tax
system has been reformed. Public enterprises face hard budget constraints -- no access to the Treasury
except for a handful of key enterprises on a very limited basis and access to the banking system on more
or less equal terms with the private sector. The commercial and investment codes have been modernized
and no longer favor the public sector. For example, investments no longer require government approval
and investment incentives apply equally to foreign and domestic investors, public or private. For the first
time, the sale or dissolution of public enterprises is legally possible -- and has happened. The banking
and insurance sectors are open to private investment, in existing institutions or through the creation of
new ones (one new private bank and a cooperative agricultural finance institution have opened). At least
as important, a vital and significant new social safety net has been put in place, comprising a self-targeted
public works program for the able-bodied poor, a means-tested program for the elderly and handicapped,
and a program of unemployment insurance for those laid off in the context of firm restructuring or
closure. To date, almost one million Algerians have benefitted directly from the three new programs;
the number reaches approximately 4 million counting dependents.
10.          The authorities realize that their ambition of achieving significant and sustainable
economic growth depends on continued implementation of a strong stabilization and adjustment program.
In that context, they sought the support of the IMF (and are seeking the support of the World Bank in
the form of the proposed SAL) for a medium-term reform program. On May 22, 1995 the IMF Board
approved a three-year (April 1995-March 1998) SDR1.17 billion extended arrangement under the
Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The program supported by the EFF, discussed below, targets four
objectives: (i) ensuring high and sustainable growth; (ii) rapidly establishing a low level of inflation; (iii)
strengthening the social safety net; and (iv) restoring balance of payments viability by 1998.
11.          Performance under the EFF. The IMF has conducted its first review under the EFF.
All the performance criteria for end-June 1995 were met, and all structural measures envisaged under the
program have been implemented as scheduled, a few of them ahead of their target dates. Performance
criteria for end-September were met, except, however, for those relating to foreign exchange reserves
and the Bank of Algeria's net domestic assets. The non-observation of these two criteria was due to
exogenous factors which are temporary in nature, namely: (i) a large rise in grain prices: (ii) a shortfall
of capital inflows; and (iii) a depreciation of the dollar relative to other major currencies (Algeria's
external debt and imports are heavily non-dollar denominated while petroleum exports are priced in
dollars.) In response to these shocks, the authorities have allowed the dinar to depreciate well beyond
programn projections, maintained a tight fiscal stance, including an acceleration of the scheduled subsidy
elimination, and allowed interest rates to increase. Given the policy actions taken by the authorities in
response to these exogenous shocks, as well as their continued commitment to the macroeconomic
objectives of the three-year program, the Fund Executive Board granted a waiver for non-observance of
the end-September 1995 performance criteria for the Bank of Algeria's net domestic assets and for foreign
exchange reserves. The recent pressure on foreign exchange reserves is clear evidence of Algeria's need
for timely balance of payments support; the SAL will be a critical element of that support.



- 4 -
Table 1: Algeria - Structural Reform Program
Policy Achievements prior to EFF     Current Program Supported by the EFF         Remaining Adjustment Agenda
and Proposed Structural Adjustment   I
Loan                    __
Trade and Exchange Reform
- Substantial exchange rate adjustment.  - Establishment of an interbank foreign  - Move to capital account convertibility.
exchange market (end-1995, EFF) and
- Introduction of a managed float for the    expansion of the interbank market to non-   - Establish hedging mechanisms for
dinar through fixing sessions.          bank participants (1996, EFF).           foreign exchange risk.
- Elimination of most exchange rate     - Elimination of minimum maturity        - Pursue negotiation of a Free Trade
restrictions for trade transactions.    requirement on external borrowing for    Agreement with the European Union,
imports of capital goods, achieving full  accompanied by parallel
- Elimination of a broad range of       convertibility for trade in goods        nondiscriminatory reduction in trade
products from the list of products subject   (completed, EFF).                   protection.
to professional criteria requirements for
importers.                              - Progressive liberalization of invisible  - Program of trade facilitation.
transactions, culminating in current
- Elimination of negative lists for     account convertibility (1997, EFF).
imports.
- Elimination of export prohibitions and  - Elimination of professional criteria
the adoption of a uniform export proceeds   requirements for importers (completed,
surrender requirement of 50 percent.    EFF)
- Revise tariff rates progressively
downward, based on the results of an
effective protection study now underway
with Bank support (1996-1998; EFF).
Prce Liberalization
- Freeing of prices of goods accounting  - Elimination of the global subsidy on  (Price liberalization program is foreseen
for 80 percent of CPI basket, not       energy products (domestic energy prices    to be virtually complete at the end of the
including further price liberalization noted   now globally at or above world market  EFF program.)
below and in column 2.                  prices, completed. EFF).
- 98 percent increase in the weighted   - Removal of subsidies on all products
average price of subsidized food and    except wheat products and pasteurized
energy products in the year ending in   milk (completed, EFF).
May 1995.
- Removal of last remaining global
- Adoption of a competition law (ERL).    subsidies -- wheat products (completed,
EFF) and pasteurized milk (end-1996,
- Transfer of several products from the  EFF).
administered price category to the
controlled profit margin category.      - Elimination of profit margin controls on
sugar, all grains except wheat, edible oils
- Quarterly revisions in the price of   and school supplies (done, EFF).
electricity and gas in line with inflation
trends.                                 - Removal of last remaining profit margin
controls, those on medicines (1998, EFF).
- Freeing of agriculture input prices.
- Freeing of construction prices for social
housing.



Policy Achievements prior to EFF   | Current Program Supported by the EFF         Remaining Adjustment Agenda
and Proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan
Government Budget
- Expansion of the VAT base and an      - Further VAT reforms (ongoing through    - Adoption of a fonmal mechanism to
increase in rates for several products.  January 1997, EFF).                     institutionalize budget surpluses.
- Excise duty of 50 percent introduced for   - Public expenditure program revisions in    - Further reduction of marginal income
cars and increase in duties on luxury   the context of a Public Expenditure      tax rates.
products and consumer appliances.       Review (ongoing through 1997, SAL).
- Further reduction and rationalization of
- Reduction in the maximum effective tax    - Civil service reform designed to   corporate income tax rates.
rate for personal income from 79 percent   gradually reduce overstaffing, while
to 65 percent.                          meeting priority needs more effectively  - Continue civil service reform process
and generating savings on the wage bill  started under EFF and SAL.
- Increase in the tax rate on reinvested  (1996-1998 in the context of the public
profits from 5 to 33 percent as a step  expenditure review, EFF/SAL).            - Continued reform of budget formulation
toward a uniform corporate tax rate.                                             and control processes started under the
- Achievement of significant budget      EFF and SAL.
- Elimination of tax exemptions for     surplus (1998, EFF).
interest earnings on treasury bonds.
- Ceiling on central government wage bill
and limitation of the minimum wage
increase to 12.5 percent.
- Withdrawal of the Treasury from the
financing of new investments in
autonomous public enterprises, with
exceptions limited to the framework
adopted under the ERL and establishment
of a timetable to phase out the
Restructuring Fund (ERL).
Public Enterprise Reform and Private
Sector Development            _________________
- Passage to financial autonomy of 5 of  - Passage of a privatization law (drafted  - Privatization of remaining public
23 large non-autonomous public          under ERL, passage -- SAL)               enterprises in competitive sectors, except
enterprises. (Almost 400 national public                                         for a small number deemed strategic.
enterprises are already autonomous.)    - Implementation of a large-scale program
of privatization and private provision of  - Reform, including possible
- Creation of a Ministry charged with the    municipal services.                 privatization, of public monopolies,
development of a privatization program,                                          including the national airline, railway,
adoption of a privatization policy,     - Adoption of a holding company          and telecommunications companies.
drafting of a privatization law.        framework for autonomous public
enterprises, designed to isolate them from    - Labor market reform; reduction in
- Enactment of a revised commercial code   political influence and prepare most for  payroll tax rate,
applying the same regulations to public  privatization (SAL).
and private enterprises.                                                         - Abolish public land developers; future
- Preparation of legal texts permitting the    sales of public lands by auction.
- Adoption of a new investment code that   privatization of state agricultural land
gives foreign investors rights equal to or    (SAL).                             - Adoption of regulatory framework for
surpassing domestic investors.                                                   private pinmary, secondary, and higher
education.
- Creation of a national investment
agency and a one-stop information
window to help cut through red tape.



- 6 -
Policy Achievements prior to EFF      Current Programn Supported by the EFF |       Remaining Adjustment Agenda
and Proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan
Pubhc Enterprise Reformn and Private
Sector Development (continued)
- Removal of the obligation to maintain  - Program for the regularization of land   - Development of institutions for a better-
one price for a product throughout the   titles or leases for commercial and        functioning real estate market.
country (pan-territorial pricing).       industrial enterprises (SAL.
- Dissolution of 88 local public
enterpnses.
- Putting up for bids of five public hotels
(one has been sold to date).
Financial Sector
- Introduction of a minimum reserve      - Removal of the ceiling on bank interest    - Privatization of remaining state-owned
requirement of 3 percent on bank         rate spreads (EFF).                        banks.
deposits, remunerated at I I percent.
- Introduction of auctions for central bank    - Development of a functioning stock
- Elimination of the ceiling on bank     credit to banks (EFF).                     market.
lending rates and the introduction of a 5
percent limit on spreads.                - Achievement of positive real deposit     - Further development of bond market.
interest rates (except on deposits related to
- Issuance of government bonds carrying    housing), in relation to underlying      - Development of new private
an interest rate of 16.5 percent.        inflation trend (EFF, end-1996).           institutional savers and reform of existing
official institutional savers (pension
- Auditing of state-owned banks and      - Recapitalization of state-owned banks to   funds, mutual funds, and insurance
agreement on a plan for their            achieve capital adequacy ratios of 4       companies).
recapitalization (ERL).                  percent and signing of management
contracts obliging managers to maintain   - Development of an active and
- Introduction of a management fee of 3.5   and increase capital adequacy ratios (to 8    competitive pnmary and secondary
percent on Bank of Algeria credit to the  percent by end-1999 - SAL).               mortgage market.
government.
-Seek private sector participation in at  - Development of financial institutions
- Opening the bank and insurance         least one state-owned bank (SAL).          designed to service the demand for credit
industries to the private sector (latter--                                         from micro-enterprises.
ERL).                                    - Strengthening of prudential regulations
dealing with foreign exchange and
government bond transactions (SAL).
- Restructure the state housing bank (end-
1996. SAL and housing loans).
- Creation of a functioning treasury bill
and bond market (1996; EFF and SAL).
Housing Sector
- Ongoing land registration program.     - Adoption of a new housing strategy,      - Shift housing fuiance from treasury-
emphasizing the role of the private sector    managed resources to household and
- A mechanism has been put in place for    (SAL; the implementation of the strategy  institutional savings, managed by a
automatic adjustment of rent on public   would be supported by a Housing Sector     private banking sector.
rental housing.                          Adjustment Loan -- see CAS).
- Shift to transparent and targeted
- Consolidation of some public sector                                               housing subsidies.
housing companies and liquidation of
others.                                                                             - Private sector land development in the
context of municipal plans.



Policy Achievements prior to EFF      Current Program Supported by the EFF          Remaining Adjustment Agenda
and Proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan
Agriculture                                                         l
- Distribution of state lands held by    - Preparation of laws establishing the     - Carry out state agricultural land
socialist state farms to individuals and  mechanisms for the privatization of state-   privatization program, in the context of
collective farms, with long-term usufruct    owned agriculture land (SAL).          an ASAL (see CAS).
rights.
- Privatization of public agricultural    - Elimination of state monopolies in
- Elimination of input subsidies except for   enterprises (SAL).                   cereal commerce, stocking, and
seed potatoes and irrigation water.                                                distribution.
- Resolve financial problems of privatized
cooperatives arising from debts
accumulated before privatization.
- Development of modem, private sector
based agricultural finance and risk
management systems.
Social Safety Net
- Elimination of system of poorly targeted    - Strengthen the targeting and improve the   - Carry out social protection program
cash allowances for non-income-earning   functioning of the PAIG, AFS,              improvements, based on LSMS and
families.                                unemployment insurance schemes (SAL).    poverty study results.
- Transfer of responsibility of family   - Creation and implementation of a social    - Overhaul of social security system.
allowances from payroll taxes to the     fund (1996-1998; proposed Social Safety
government budget.                        Net Loan).                                - Further public expenditure reform in
favor of expenditures targeted toward
- Introduction of a self-targeted public  - Program of public works designed to     basic education and basic preventive
works scheme (PAIG) designed to          benefit unemployed workers (separate       medicine.
transfer income to the very poor.        from the PAIG, which targets the very
poor -- 1996; proposed Social Safety Net
- Introduction of a targeted transfer    Loan.)
scheme (AFS) for the elderly and
handicapped not benefitting from existing    - Carry out LSMS to gain information for
pension and benefit system.              better targeting of social protection
programs (ongoing; ERL and SAL).
- Introduction of an unemployment
insurance scheme.                        - Revise social protection programs, based
on LSMS data and Poverty Assessment
(1996; SAL).
- Reform of housing subsidy program,
retargeted toward the poor (1996; housing
loans).



- 8 -
C.    Medium-term Prospects and Financing Plan
12.          Algeria's medium-term  growth and balance of payments prospects are promising,
provided that the authorities can maintain the momentum of adjustment (Table 2). Non-hydrocarbon
output is projected to grow at a real rate of more than four percent between 1995 and 1998. The sources
of non-hydrocarbon growth, as noted above, will be mainly in the construction, service, and agriculture
sectors. Growth in these sectors will generate the jobs needed to blunt the growth in unemployment.
Construction will benefit from the housing sector reforms, the availability of key imported inputs, the
increased use of private contractors for public works, and the privatization program. That program will
put construction equipment in the hands of private operators.  In addition, former public sector
construction workers are likely to start their own private businesses or find employment with emerging
or expanding private firms. Expanded private sector activity will contribute enormously to meeting the
critical housing needs of the Algerian population. The agriculture sector will benefit from land
privatization and from the break-up of inefficient monopoly suppliers in the privatization process. In
order to generate employment quickly, these reforms will be accompanied by labor-intensive public works
programs aimed at unemployed youth. As explained in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed
at the Board on February 27, 1996, the public works program will be supported by the Bank.
13.          While non-petroleum sectors will generate internal growth, Algeria will remain dependent
on petroleum exports for a quick return to balance of payments viability, expected before the end of
1998. Non-petroleum exports are projected to rise almost 300 percent between 1994 and 1998, but their
initial level is low (US$280 million in 1994). Investments currently underway would double natural gas
exports and reverse the decline in oil exports, resulting in an increase in hydrocarbon export revenues
of more than US$2 billion between 1995 and 1998 and a further sizeable increase thereafter. (Several
foreign petroleum companies, including BP, Total, REPSOL, and ARCO, have recently signed contracts
to invest a total of almost US$6 billion in Algeria.) As noted in the CAS, the Bank strategy for Algeria
includes support for policies that would further increase hydrocarbon exports.
14.          The largest element in the medium-term financing plan is the rescheduling of official
bilateral debt through the Paris Club (Table 3). The rescheduling of private debt on the basis of an
agreement reached with a consortium of banks and leasing companies will make a smaller but important
contribution. These reschedulings, which provide a total of US$16 billion of debt service relief between
1994 and 1998, would not have been possible without the support of the IMF, first through the 1994
Stand-by and now under the EFF. The first Paris Club rescheduling, shortly after the approval of the
Stand-by, provided Algeria with favorable terms: a one-year consolidation period (the period in which
debt service is reduced); a maturity of 15 years with three years of grace and a graduated principal
repayment period; a contract cut-off date of September 1993; and, importantly, rescheduling of interest
between January and October 1994. The second Paris Club rescheduling took place shortly after the
approval of the EFF. It covered maturities falling due between June 1, 1995 and May 31, 1998; in
addition, to close the financing gap -- which widened, as noted above, between the negotiation of the EFF
and the Paris Club meeting -- official creditors rescheduled US$750 million of interest payments falling
due between June 1, 1995 and May 31, 1996. The repayment terms were the same as those for the first
Paris Club rescheduling. The private debt rescheduling will cover US$3.3 billion of principal maturities
falling due between March 1, 1994 and December 31, 1997. Maturities vary between 10'h and 16 years
(counting from March 1994), with creditors who had previously reprofiled their claims benefitting from
shorter maturities.



- 9 -
Table 2: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
1987-92   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1998
(In percent)
Real GDP Growth           0.4      -2.2    -1.2    3.5      5.8     4.2    3.5
-Hydrocarbons            2.4     -0.8    -2.5      1.0    13.6    4.0    0.1
-Non Hydrocarbons       -0.6      -2.9    -0.5    4.0      3.4     4.4    4.6
(In percent of GDP)
Gross Investment          29.5     29.2    31.5    33.0    31.5    30.7   29.9
-Central Government      9.5      10.4    10.1    9.6      8.5     7.5    7.2
& Public Enterp. 1/
- Other PE and Priv.    20.0      18.8    21.5    23.4    23.0    23.2   22.6
Budget Deficit (-)        -2.8     -8.7    -4.4    -1.6    0.3      0.9    2.4
Current Account Deficit   0.7       1.6    -4.3    -7.2    4.4    -3.4   -2.8
(-)
Imports                   19.8     23.2    28.6    31.1    29.8    28.7   28.3
Exports                   21.1     21.9    23.7    25.7    26.9    27.1   27.3
-Hydrocarbons           18.6      19.6   20.5    22.8    23.8    23.8   23.7
Foreign Debt              49.3     51.8    67.7    78.5    78.7    77.6   76.8
(In US$ billions)
Foreign Debt              26.7     25.8    28.4    32.3    34.9    36.5   38.2
(In percent of exports)
Foreign Debt Service      60.2     73.4    41.4    37.2    28.5    32.6   40.9
(In months of imports)
Foreign Rserves           1.2       1.5     2.5     1.8     2.1     2.4    2.4
(excluding gold)
I lncludes only public enterpnse uiveslments fmanced through the budget or through thC Restructuring Fund (FA).
15.          The World Bank will provide important direct and indirect contributions to the financing
plan in 1996 and 1997. As outlined in the CAS, it is proposed that the World Bank increase adjustment
lending to three quarters of total lending in FYs 1996 and 1997, in order to provide quick-disbursing
resources appropriate to Algeria's current circumstances and needs. Gross World Bank disbursements
are projected at US$410 million in 1996, of which about half would be direct balance of payments
support toward filling the financing gap (assuming one more adjustment loan before the end of calendar
year 1996 -- see the CAS). World Bank support through the SAL also provides comfort to other lenders,



- 10-
including potential SAL parallel financiers such as the EU (see "Cofinancing" below). These other
lenders are also key to filling the financing gap.
Table 3: Financing Plan
(US$ billion)
1994       1995        1996        1997        1998
Extraordinary Financing     5.72        6.00        4.78        3.42        0.99
Needs
Financing Sources:          5.72        6.00        4.78        3.42        0.99
Rescheduling                4.49        4.78        3.73        2.38        0.56
Paris Club                 3.70        3.77       2.81        1.74        0.56
London Club                0.79        1.01       0.92        0.64        0.00
IMF                          0.85       0.61        0.53        0.52        0.13
IBRD (BOP)                  0.08        0.26        0.20        0.20        0.20
Other Multilateral (BOP)    0.30        0.35        0.32        0.33        0.10
U1. The Government's Adjustment Strategy
16.         While the Algerian economy has made important progress since the introduction of the
accelerated reform program in early 1994, full macroeconomic stability has not been achieved and major
structural impediments remain.  Inflation remains high, and the economy remains dependent on
hydrocarbon exports. Most notably, an inefficient and monopolistic public sector dominates in industry
and finance and accounts for almost half of non-agriculture non-government employment. One in four
workers in the formal sector is in government service. Property rights remain poorly defined for private
sector operators in agriculture and industry. To address these problems, the Algerian authorities are
committed to a strong and sustained adjustment effort over several years. The goals of the program
remain basically the same as in 1994:  (i) achieving and maintaining a stable macroeconomy; (ii)
deepening the structural reforms needed in order to accelerate and complete the transition to a market
economy; while at the same time, (iii) taking actions to reduce the unacceptably high level of
unemployment (see the CAS) and protect the poor during the transition. The stabilization and adjustment
programn supported by the EFF and to be supported by the proposed SAL is outlined above (see Column
2 of Table 1). The EFF, the proposed SAL, and other proposed Bank adjustment lending support
complementary parts of a coherent program of adjustment. Discussions on the adjustment program have
proceeded in close collaboration with the IMF. (As always, the authorities cannot take on the whole
adjustment agenda under this program. Some measures must logically follow those currently under



- 11 -
implementation; others may not yet have the necessary consensus for successful implementation. Column
3 of Table 1 indicates key measures that should be tackled in the next phase of adjustment.)
A.    Macroeconomic Program
17.          The goals of Algeria's macroeconomic program are ambitious: the achievement of 5
percent annual real growth in non-hydrocarbon output over the next three years; and a reduction of
inflation to the rate of its trading partners, achievement of a budget surplus equal to about 2½h percent
of GDP (a sensible policy for a country dependent on non-renewable hydrocarbon resources for more than
half of budgetary expenditures), and a current account deficit of about 2½h percent of GDP by mid-1998.
In addition to the adjustment program outlined below, a range of macroeconomic policies will be used
to achieve these goals. (Macroeconomic conditionality is listed in the policy matrix in Annex D.)
18.          Exchange Rate Policy. The Algerian authorities plan to introduce current account
convertibility of the dinar by end-1997. To this end, virtually all controls on foreign exchange purchases
for merchandise imports have been lifted. Restrictions on payments for invisibles will be lifted gradually
during the next two years. In addition, the dinar rate will be more heavily influenced by market forces.
An interbank foreign exchange market was introduced at the end of 1995. The receipts of Sonatrach, the
national oil company, in excess of official needs will be sold through this market.
19.          Trade Liberalization.  Under the stand-by and ERL, imports were substantially
liberalized. The removal of impediments to access to foreign exchange was the most important action.
Algeria did not have an explicit quantitative trade restriction regime, relying instead on foreign exchange
allocation to achieve high rates of protection for domestic producers. Since the beginning of 1995,
further trade liberalization measures include the removal of the minimum maturity requirement on
extemal borrowing for imports of capital goods (a measure seen as important by the private sector) and
the elimination of professional criteria requirements for importers of medicines, milk, semolina, flour,
and wheat. The maximum tariff rate is now 60 percent. Further tariff reductions are envisaged, in
accordance with the results of a study of effective protection now underway in collaboration with the
Bank. The phased reduction in tariff rates is necessary in the Algerian context in which domestic
producers currently face intense competition from imports as a result of the lifting of exchange controls
that provided a much higher level of protection than that afforded by tariffs.
20.           Price Liberalization. Price controls have been eliminated, except for a limited number
of energy products and pasteurized milk. The global subsidy on energy products has been completely
eliminated, although some cross-subsidization exists among products and among consumer classes.
Controls on profit margins have been eliminated, except for medicines and powdered milk. The only
remaining generalized subsidy (pasteurized milk) will be removed by the end of 1996. The authorities
are aware of the potential negative impact on the poor of the price increases for basic commodities. As
a result, they plan to further strengthen the social safety net with measures targeting the poor.
21.           Fiscal Policy. Much progress has already been achieved on the revenue side, but because
rates are high and because import tariffs will be reduced, further progress will depend on widening the
tax base. To that end, some VAT exemptions have been removed this year, and interest income is now
taxed. The authorities have agreed to review the possibility of reducing the number of VAT rates from
three to two in consultation with the Fund. However, expenditure measures will be more important in
achieving the targeted fiscal surplus. The key tool for expenditure decisions is the ongoing public
expenditure review (PER). The authorities have used the PER as a guide in the process of expenditure



- 12 -
reallocation, under the overall budget limits set in the context of the EFF. The government investment
program for 1996 is in compliance with the recommendations of that report, notably concerning
expenditures on basic health and education. In education, net recruitment will be zero (the education
system is overstaffed); and reallocation toward important non-wage expenditures was achieved.
(Worldwide experience demonstrates the importance of these expenditures in education outcomes.) In
health, total expenditures as a share of GDP were not only protected but slightly increased, with a
reallocation toward preventive medicine. The authorities have agreed to a 130 percent increase in
preventive medicine expenditures, a 75 percent increase in pharmaceutical expenditures, and will launch
pilot subcontracts with the private sector for food and cleaning services in government-run health
facilities. In addition, adjustments have been made in transportation expenditures, including shelving the
construction of the Algiers metro and a postponement of lower-priority infrastructure investments with
a reallocation to housing. The PER also reviewed personnel expenditures; the recommendations of the
report were taken into account in the measures foreseen in the 1996 budget for reaching the agreed
reduction of these expenditures as a share of GDP, in the context of the EFF. Specifically, recruitment
will be stabilized. By 1998, personnel expenditures are to decline to 8.8 percent of GDP, from 10.5
percent in 1993 and about 10 percent currently. The PER, which is an on-going exercise, will be the
basis for a review of the proposed 1997 investment and personnel budgets before release of the second
tranche of the SAL. In all, government expenditures are to fall from about 32 percent of GDP currently
to about 28½/2 percent by 1998, all in recurrent expenditures. Government investment expenditures will
remain roughly constant at about 7'½ percent of GDP.
22.           Monetary and Interest Rate Policy. A strict monetary policy is an important component
of the Government's stabilization program, contributing to demand management and a reduction in
inflation. At the same time, crowding out by the Government will be reduced, as it makes net payments
to the banking system, allowing banks to increase non-government credit by 20 to 30 percent per year.
Monetary growth is programmed at 13 percent in 1996. Interest rates have been freed. A five percent
limit on the margin between deposit and lending rates of banks was eliminated in December 1995. Most
lending rates are now in the 19-24 percent range.
B.    Major Elements of the Adjustment Programn
23.           The Algerian authorities' adjustment program supported by the ERL and to be supported
by the SAL has one key aim: to move as quickly as realistically possible to transform the Algerian
economy into one that is market-based, efficient, and productive. The challenge is clear. The authorities
realize that they must use the window of opportunity presented by debt rescheduling to expand output and
to reduce as much as is feasible the vulnerability of the economy to external shocks, notably oil price
shocks. By mid-1998, the economy must be ready to face the double impact of an end to rescheduling
of debt service and the first principal payments on the US$16 billion of debt rescheduled during the
previous three years. The ICOR must be improved from the double-, and sometimes triple-, digit levels
of the last two decades. Efficiency will be improved through public enterprise reform, including a large-
scale program of privatization of small enterprises, and the strengthening of the existing private sector.
These measures are necessary if the latter is to be the engine of growth and employment creation.
Experience across the world has shown the importance of an efficient and competitive financial sector
for private sector growth. The Algerian authorities understand this and want to increase the number of
banks and financial institutions, while strengthening supervision capabilities of the central bank. All of
these measures will go in parallel with measures designed to improve the social safety net during the
transition (described in Section III below).



- 13 -
24.           Privatization. The proposed SAL will support privatization with the following strategy.
Privatization will be implemented whenever and wherever possible, while, at the same time, moving those
public enterprises that would not yet be candidates for privatization, because of a problem of demand
under current circumstances, to a situation in which they are no longer a drain on the budget and a threat
to the integrity of the financial system.
25.           Privatization is the officially stated policy of the Algerian government for public sector
activities in competitive sectors (see the ERL Letter of Development Policy) and probably the only
effective means of increasing the efficiency of the Algerian economy. However, in the present security
situation, the private market for large public enterprises is likely to be limited. Foreign investors have
become heavily involved in oil and gas development in Algeria in recent years, and this trend is likely
to continue. However, they are not likely to move into other sectors until the security situation improves.
Few local private market participants have the resources to become strategic investors in these large
enterprises, and those that do tell us that they would seek foreign expertise; hence, they face the same
problem as potential foreign buyers. The authorities' strategy in these circumstances for the large public
enterprises is the following: (i) impose hard budget constraints and impose a new management system
to prepare enterprises for eventual privatization (see Public Enterprise Reform below); (ii) identify smaller
units of these enterprises that can be sold off under current demand conditions -- or let the enterprises
themselves do this as a way of raising funds; (iii) seek private management or minority equity
participation for some units; and (iv) spin off service activities of the largest public enterprises to
employees.
26.            At the same time, the SAL will support a large-scale program of privatization of small
enterprises and the private provision of local services, concentrating on activities and sectors where there
is likely to be effective demand for the resources to be privatized, notably small-scale industry,
commerce, services, construction, and transport. As shown in the table below, the latter are important
in terms of employment, accounting for more than half of public enterprise employment and 20 percent
of total non-agricultural employment (see Table 4). As noted in the CAS, these are also the sectors,
besides agriculture, targeted for the strategy of labor-intensive employment creation. (Large, capital-
intensive PEs, mostly in industry, will be shedding labor; however, public enterprise employment in
industry accounts for only 8 percent of total employment.)
27.           The sources of demand for these privatized entities are three-fold.  First, private
businessmen in Algeria reported in the context of the recent Private Sector Assessment (PSA) that they
stand ready to bid for small-scale enterprises. (A group of visiting Algerian businessmen recently
reconfirmed their interest in buying small-scale public enterprises.) Second, Algeria has had a thriving
informal economy, profiting from shortages created by price and exchange controls and production
shortfalls by monopoly PEs. These economic agents have seen their profits shrink with adjustment and
are looking for new investments, notably in the service sector. Third, the current management of some
of these small PEs is another potential source of demand.



- 14 -
Table 4: Algeria -- Value Added and Employment by Sector, 1991
Sectoral Value     Of Which           Total          Of Which
Added         Public Sector    Employment       Public Sector
(percent)       (percent)       (thousands)        (percent)
Total                       100              63              4,231             52
Agriculture                 10                *              1,040              4
Non-agricultural            90               70              3,191             67
of which:
Hydrocarbons               31               100               38              100
Industry                   11               73               509              68
Construction               11               45               674              54
Commerce                   14               19               400               19
Other Services             10               35               470              46
Public Admin.              13               100             1,100             100
/ Less than one half of one percent.
28.           The Algerian authorities have four legal vehicles for privatization and will present the
Bank with a privatization program using all four. The first is the privatization law passed recently,
designed mainly for the large regional or national public enterprises. The authorities will develop a first-
year privatization program under this law in consultation with the Bank. Under Articles 24 and 25 of
the 1994 Complementary Finance Law, units of public enterprises can be sold outright, enterprises can
be offered for private management contract, or they can sell up to 49 percent of their equity to the private
sector. Using the commercial code, public enterprises can be dissolved and liquidated under the
bankruptcy law. Lastly, under a 1990 law, public enterprises organized at the community level can be
sold by competitive bidding and local public services can be offered for operation by the private sector
under concessions.
29.           The most important part of the initial pre-Board privatization program falls under this last
law. Using that law, the Algerian authorities have brought 103 of these local enterprises (mainly in
transportation, commerce, construction, and tourism) to the point of sale and have offered for concession
another 35 activities. The first program under Articles 24 and 25 of the 1994 Complementary Finance
Law touched 50 economic units (in agro-industry, industry, tourism, and commerce). These have been
offered for sale, tendered for management contracts, or have opened their capital to private sector
participation. In addition, foreign investors have signed contracts to manage two public-sector hotels.
As the last element in this initial program, the Algerian authorities have dissolved 88 local public
enterprises judged to be non-viable and have placed their assets in liquidation. To put this initial program
into perspective, it touches roughly 17,000 of the approximately one million public sector workers outside
of government. While its size was small, the virtually daily appearance of offers for sale in local
newspapers served as an effective signal that the process of privatization has been started in Algeria. It



- 15 -
was designed to gain adherents for the privatization process and to lock in privatization as a priority
government policy.
30.           A second privatization program will be established and a portion of it, agreed jointly
between the Algerian authorities and the Bank, will be brought to the point of sale before the release of
the second tranche of the SAL. The Algerian authorities are committed to maintaining the momentum
of privatization (see the attached Letter of Development Policy). In fact, the second-tranche program is
likely to be significantly larger. It will have the same three components as the initial program, but, in
addition, it will include the first privatization program under the new privatization law. The privatization
institution was established in March 1996 and is in the process of preparing its first-year program. In
preparing the second privatization program, the Algerian authorities will also be able to benefit from their
experience with the initial pre-Board program and can orient sales towards sectors where demand has
been demonstrated to be strong.
31.           Agricultural Land Tenure. The Algerian Government has announced its intention to sell
off state-owned arable land. The land in question was converted from state farms to small collective
farms or to small individual farms with usufruct rights at the beginning of the adjustment program in
1987. However, some of the land went unexploited, partly because of a lack of complementary
resources; and collective operations did not work and were defacto divided into family farms. Still, land
tenure is a sensitive political issue, and the process will take time. Contentious issues concerning prior
property rights must be resolved. As a result, the authorities will work with the Bank on the preparation
of legislation setting out the modalities of agricultural land privatization. (Privatization of state-owned
land is already permitted under Algerian law; the question that must be resolved is the process by which
the land will be privatized.) This legislation will be approved by the Council of Government before
second tranche release. (Draft legislation, once approved by the Council of Government, is submitted
to the legislative authority.) In the meantime, the Government has put into effect a law returning to the
original owners land voluntarily donated to the State during the period of collectivization.
32.           Public Enterprise Reform. The strategy of the Algerian authorities is to limit PEs' access
to public resources, through the budget or through bad debts to the banking system made good through
budget appropriations. Recent reforms in the banking system described below and supported under the
ERL effectively block access of loss-making enterprises to bank credit. As outlined in the ERL program,
the last remaining 23 large non-autonomous public enterprises (EPS) were to be passed to autonomy,
blocking routine access to Treasury financing and guarantees. Five were made autonomous before Board
presentation of the ERL. Under this framework, at autonomy the authorities sign management contracts
with the heads of these enterprises requiring them to implement restructuring plans that have received the
"non-objection" of the authorities (approval could imply a moral obligation on the part of the government
to provide finance.) All 23 are now autonomous. In addition, the authorities will abide by their
agreement in the ERL to close the Restructuring Fund, which was used to reduce the commercial bank
debts of PEs as the latter passed to autonomy. If this Fund were to remain operational, there would be
a danger of future debt bailouts for PEs, effectively removing the hard budget constraint they would
otherwise face and eliminating pressure to improve their financial performance.
33.           The government has recently adopted a law setting up holding companies to manage PEs.
Under this framework, the authorities have agreed that the holdings will: (i) set as their primary
objective the achievement by these enterprises of positive rates of return; (ii) sanction those that do not,
including requiring them to sell off assets; and (iii) prepare enterprises for eventual privatization when
demand conditions permit. In order to reduce the risk that the holdings will delay the privatization



- 16 -
process, the authorities have put in place the following safeguards: (i) the government-level authority
that oversees the holdings has essentially the same members as the government body that approves the
privatization program; (ii) this authority is represented on the boards of the holdings; and (iii) once an
enterprise has been identified as a candidate for privatization, it immediately leaves the holding and falls,
by law, under the control of the privatization institution.
34.           One potential short-run escape from hard budget constraints for public enterprises is a
run-up in inter-enterprise debt. Under the SAL, the authorities will monitor the inter-enterprise debts
of public enterprises.
35.          Incentive Framework The Algerian authorities will support the private sector indirectly,
through continued improvements in the overall framework for private sector growth, and directly, through
the enhancement of opportunities for the private sector to carry out activities previously in the public
domain.  Other than improving the overall framework for private sector growth and providing
opportunities for the private sector to compete for government concessions and public works, experience
in many countries shows that it is difficult to develop specific government interventions in favor of the
private sector that actually work.  This observation is especially relevant for small and medium
enterprises, which in Algeria describes virtually the entire private sector. However, drawing on the PSA
carried out during the last 12 months, the authorities have developed a program that tries to balance
measures to improve the general framework for private sector activity with a few major specific
interventions.
36.           An important general measure consists of putting the finishing touches on the new legal
and regulatory framework for economic activity. This framework has emerged with the support of the
World Bank, starting with the development of the first adjustment operation in 1989. It includes a new
commercial code and a new investment code. One final but important element remained. Before Board
presentation, the authorities presented to the Bank the implementing regulations for the competition law
passed in the context of the ERL.  A well-functioning competition law is important during the
privatization process in order to avoid replacing public monopolies by private monopolies. (Poorly
designed, these regulations could be used to reduce competition.) The Bank, through the Private Sector
Development Department, is providing technical assistance to the Algerian authorities to help them
implement the competition monitoring and enforcement system. Other actions seek to remove what the
private sector reported through the PSA process as important remaining legal and bureaucratic barriers
to private sector growth. The authorities are implementing measures to regularize titles to industrial and
commercial land and have legalized leasing and factoring as forms of investment finance.
37.          The direct measures for private sector support are mainly related to government contracts.
First, in the context of the privatization program discussed above, the authorities are committed to a
program of private provision of municipal services. Second, the authorities have adopted a series of
reforms designed to increase the participation of the private sector in the construction of public housing,
notably by reducing the size of individual contracts. It is projected that, in termns of value added, more
than half of the program of 80 thousand units of public housing planned for 1996 will be produced by
private contractors. (The use of private contractors in road construction and maintenance is supported
under the Highways VI project, under implementation.)
38.           Reform of the Financial Sector. The strategy for the financial sector is consistent with
that developed with the Algerian authorities under the ERL. As foreseen in the ERL, the next phase of
financial sector reform must include measures to increase competition. A banking system dominated by



- 17 -
five publicly-owned banks cannot generate the competition necessary to efficiently mobilize deposits or
to provide the services needed by an expanding private sector. The interbank market for foreign
exchange foreseen under the EFF and the bond market to be developed in collaboration with the Bank
also necessitate real competition to function well. In parallel, now is the time to start developing the basis
for new non-bank financial institutions, including a stock market.
39.           Restructuring of existing banks will go on as planned under the ERL. The authorities
have agreed with the Bank on the capital infusions necessary for the five banks in order for them to meet
the agreed interim capital-asset ratio of four percent. Recapitalization at the agreed level was a pre-Board
requirement, as was signature and implementation of the agreed management contracts. Under the
management contracts, the managers have the responsibility to respect the capital adequacy guidelines.
As a result, they have no incentive to increase bank exposure to loss-making autonomous public
enterprises. Recapitalization was not a major drain on the government budget because the authorities had
already cleaned up the balance sheets of these banks, using the Restructuring Fund to exchange
government bonds for the bad debts of PEs. More than 50 percent of the assets of the five government
banks consists of claims on the Algerian Treasury.
40.          Increased competition in the banking sector will be encouraged under the SAL in the
following ways. First, the new management contracts will encourage some competition. Second, a study
is currently underway to identify the means to effectively privatize the management of one existing bank.
Presentation of a draft plan to achieve this aim was a pre-Board condition. In informal contacts between
commercial banks outside of Algeria and the IFC, many banking groups have expressed an interest in
entering the Algerian market but are discouraged by the security situation. Private groups within Algeria
have explored the possibility of opening new banks but also have been discouraged by the security
situation. They see the need to bring in foreign financial expertise, which will be difficult until this
situation improves. However, the IFC has given its assurance that it will continue to actively seek new
entrants into the Algerian financial markets (see CAS). One new private bank has been approved (it plans
to act mainly as an investment bank). Its entry into the Algerian market is a positive development.
41.          Improvements in the supervision and regulation capabilities of the central bank will
continue under the proposed SAL. Actions include the setting and enforcing of effective limits on bank
overdrafts and of accounting norms and regulations covering foreign exchange transactions and
transactions in governmnent securities.
42.           Measures to introduce new markets concentrate in the first instance on the government
securities market. The structure of new issues of government securities has been designed along the lines
suggested in the Bank's study of Algerian capital markets. This design concentrates issues on a few
maturity dates, allowing the creation of deeper secondary markets. The SAL will support the process
of putting both the primary and secondary markets into operation, including the development of an
auction system, the requirements for licensing of securities dealers, and the introduction of a clearing
system. The SAL also supports the first steps toward the development of a stock market, including the
adoption of key amendments to the stock market law, authorizing an over-the-counter secondary market
in Treasury securities, authorizing stock exchange members to trade other financial securities, and
relieving exchange members of the responsibility of accounting for the source of their clients' funds.
Lastly, an Exchange Commission will be established and staffed.



- 18 -
III. Algeria's Social Safety Net Strategy
43.           The Algerian authorities realize that a workable social safety net is an important
accompaniment to their adjustment program, to help the poor who might be adversely affected by
adjustment and to engender popular support for the program. In late 1994, they replaced a cash payment
scheme that could not be well-targeted and had become too expensive by two new programs. (The cash
payment system itself was adopted to compensate the poor for the reduction of generalized food subsidies
as a part of past adjustment efforts.) The first program (AFS) provides assistance to the elderly and
handicapped and their dependents. It targets those who are missed by other social security programs:
the elderly without pensions or other major sources of income and the handicapped who are not 100
percent incapacitated (the severely handicapped already receive social assistance) but who are unable to
work and have little or no savings. The second program (PAIG) provides employment, normally of
limited duration, on a self-targeted basis to those who are willing to work for half the minimum wage.
44.           The other pressing social issue for the Algerian authorities is the 25 percent rate of
unemployment, mainly among youth. (While the problem must be addressed in the interest of social
cohesion, it must be noted that the link between unemployment and poverty is not clear; evidence from
other countries, including those with high unemployment rates, shows that most of those classed as
unemployed come from families with incomes above the poverty line.) While the reforms underway are
designed to generate a quick supply response, mainly in labor-intensive agriculture and construction, there
is a risk that unemployment could remain at or near its current level in the short run. To minimize this
risk, the Algerian government, with Bank support, has put together a program of public works and is
designing a social fund. (See the accompanying Social Safety Support Project.) In addition, the Algerian
government has introduced a scheme of protection for workers laid off for economic reasons.
45.           The three recent programs -- the unemployment insurance scheme, the AFS, and the
PAIG -- were brought to full operation in a very short period; the Algerian authorities are to be
congratulated in this regard. The successful on-the-ground implementation of these social safety net
programs in a difficult security setting is -- along with (i) the public expenditure program and (ii) the
public sector reform, privatization and private sector development components -- a key up-front policy
action justifying support under the proposed SAL. However, as with most safety net schemes, it could
be improved. Under the SAL, the authorities will take measures to strengthen these programs. The
schemes are described below, along with potential measures to improve their effectiveness.
46.           The program of aid to the elderly and handicapped (AFS) now covers 430,000 heads of
households, or about 900,000 people in all. Among the heads of benefitting households, 87 percent are
elderly and 13 percent handicapped. Each beneficiary receives 600 dinars per month, plus 120 dinars
per month for each dependent up to a maximum of three. Based on a study of the program during its
initial few months of operation, it could be improved and extended as follows. Under the SAL, the
authorities have agreed to: (i) make payments monthly, rather than quarterly; and (ii) integrate the AFS
with other existing social programs to reduce the risk of overlaps.
47.           The program providing short-term emplovment (PAIG) has provided jobs of relatively
short duration to 420,000 participants at more than 16,000 work sites. In a review undertaken by the
Bank, a number of areas for possible improvement were identified. The program's key feature is its self-
targeting to the able-bodied poor: it is designed to benefit only those willing to work for half the
minimum wage. However, some local authorities (the program is run at the local level) pay for a full
day when the participants work only half the day. As a result, the program loses its self-targeting feature



- 19 -
and could attract participants from existing or potential new jobs in the private sector. Second, the work
sites do not appear to have been selected on the basis of knowledge concerning the geographical location
of the poorest groups. Third, many of the activities appear to have an unnecessarily low rate of retum.
While efficiency is not the major criterion for measuring the success of this program, it appears that
efficiency could be improved at little additional cost. In the context of the SAL, the authorities have
agreed to: (i) demand (and verify) a full day's work for a full day's pay; (ii) target work sites more
closely to geographical areas identified as having a high concentration of poor people; and (iii) set
efficiency norms for the local authorities to follow and verify their use.
48.           The program of protection of workers laid off for economic reasons is contributory.
Employers and employees pay a combined payroll tax of four percent into a fund. In addition,
enterprises that lay off workers pay an "entry fee" for each laid off worker proportional to that worker's
tenure with the firm. An enterprise that would like access to the fund must prepare a restructuring plan
that specifies employment compression via retrenchment or early retirement. The benefit level and
duration is based on salary history and employment duration, with an upper bound equal to three times
the minimum wage. The benefit period is a minimum of one year and a maximum of three years, and
the benefits decline over time. About 48,000 workers, mainly in construction, are eligible for financial
support (36,000) or have taken early retirement (12,000) under the program. While the program has been
successfully implemented, it can be improved by: (i) the close tracking of detailed accounts of revenues
and expenditures; and (ii) the establishment of guidelines for investing the funds that accumulate as a
reserve. It is possible that the cost of the scheme to both firms and contributing workers can be lowered
over time, if the Fund begins to accumulate large reserves.
IV. The Proposed Loan
A.    Program to be Supported and Link to the Country Assistance Strategy
49.           This proposal has been prepared in response to a government request, going back to early
1994, for support for its intensified adjustment efforts. The proposed SAL will be a continuation of the
support provided under ERL, recognizing the successful policy performance of the Algerian authorities
under that loan and the vital program of medium-term structural adjustment, described above, that they
have already launched. The proposed SAL and the already approved EFF are complementary; both have
been prepared in close collaboration between the Bretton Woods institutions. With regard to the
macroeconomic framework, the Bank will support improvements in the composition of public
expenditures in the context of overall ceilings established with the Fund. Privatization and other measures
to improve enterprise and financial market efficiency, supported by the Bank, will benefit from
macroeconomic stability established in the context of the EFF. Improvements in the social safety net
supported by the Bank will underpin the cuts in government expenditures, notably generalized subsidies,
necessary under the EFF for the reestablishment of monetary and balance of payments equilibrium.
50.           The relationship between the proposed loan and the CAS is clear. The objectives of the
SAL are the three key objectives enunciated in the attached CAS. Support under the SAL will help the
authorities: (i) stimulate private sector-led growth; (ii) protect the poor during the transition to a market-
based economy; and (iii) enhance the country's ability to mobilize the external resources necessary to
bridge the gap to balance of payments viability. As noted in the CAS, the SAL is a central element of
the Bank's strategy of assistance for Algeria.



- 20 -
51.           The elements of Algeria's stabilization and adjustment program to be supported under the
SAL are outlined in the policy matrix attached to the Letter of Development Policy (Annex D). Details
of the specific elements to be supported under the SAL are presented above in the sections outlining the
Algerian macroeconomic, structural adjustment, and social safety net programs and are reiterated in the
government's Letter of Development Policy. Also annexed to the Letter of Development Policy is a set
of monitorable indicators to be tracked during the life of the SAL.
B.    Poverty Impact
52.           While the exact impact on poverty of the Algerian program to be supported under the
SAL in Algeria is difficult to quantify, its overall qualitative impact will be positive. The Algerian
authorities have already put in place a functioning social safety net designed to limit the impact of
adjustment on the poor (notably as a result of the elimination of generalized food subsidies). These
programs, the AFS and the PAIG, were described above. Under the SAL, the Algerian authorities will
further improve the design and management of these programs, in consultation with the Bank. In
addition, the program is designed to provide information to improve the targeting of future social
assistance. During the period of the SAL, the Bank will prepare, jointly with the Algerian authorities,
the first Poverty Assessment for Algeria. The assessment will be based partly on data arising from a
Living Standards Measurement Survey, now underway, financed in part under a Bank technical assistance
loan. The Algerian authorities are also conscious of the need to assist those who are not poor but who
might suffer as a result of the adjustment effort, notably PE workers laid off for economic reasons. They
have put in place a program to provide financial assistance to these workers, described above in the
discussion of the social safety net.
53.          In addition, SAL conditionality includes up-front measures to protect the level and
improve the efficiency of key social expenditures. As noted above, non-wage recurrent education
expenditures were increased, as were expenditures on basic preventive health care.
C.    Negotiations, Effectiveness, and Proposed Tranche Conditionality
54.           The are no conditions of effectiveness separate from conditions for Board presentation.
The program was designed, in the spirit of the CAS strategy, to require significant pre-Board actions for
two reasons: (i) to demonstrate the authorities' commitment to the program; and (ii) to decrease to the
extent possible the risk of policy reversal (see the section on risks below). Second tranche conditions
concentrate only on major actions that require significant advance preparation.
55.           The following were the key actions for Board presentation:
Macroeconomic and Public Finance Framework
o      Submission to the Bank of a government investment program and plan for recurrent goverrnment
expenditures in 1996 in the health, education, transportation, and housing sectors satisfactory to
the Bank and in accordance with the PER.
o      Stabilization of recruitment for the civil service, in accordance with the EFF. (Note: the PER
was the basis for the agreement with the Fund in the context of the EFF.)



- 21 -
Support for Public Sector Reform and for Private Sector Development
o      Promulgation of a privatization law.
o     Implementation of an initial privatization program, including bringing 103 conmmunal-level public
enterprises to the point of sale, offering 35 communal activities for private sector operation by
concession, bringing to the point of sale (selling the units, opening of capital or operation by the
private sector through management contract) 50 units of national public enterprises (EPEs),
privatization of the management of two government-owned hotels, and dissolution of 84 local
public enterprises (EPLs).
o      Immediate passage to autonomy, redeployment, or dissolution of the 18 remaining large non-
autonomous public enterprises (EPS) in conformity with the framework set out in the ERL.
o      Adoption of a new housing strategy and financial plan and calendar for the 1996 public housing
program, both satisfactory to the Bank.
o      Publication of implementing regulations for the new Competition Law.
O     Presentation of a draft proposal for the introduction of private share ownership and/or private
management for at least one of the 5 existing public sector banks.
o      Recapitalization of the 5 public sector banks (in accordance with agreements reached during pre-
appraisal and appraisal discussions).
Social Safety Net
o      Successful full implementation of the three new social safety net programs: the program for the
elderly and handicapped; the self-targeted income transfer program; and the program for workers
laid off for economic reasons.
o      Adoption of a program, acceptable to the Bank, of measures to improve the performance of the
three new elements of the social safety net.
56.          Conditions for second tranche release are:
Macroeconomic and Public Finance Framework
o      Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework (in the context of the EFF).
o     Presentation to the Bank of a government investment program and plan for recurrent government
expenditures for the 1997 budget including measures agreed jointly and satisfactory to both
parties, in the context of the PER.
o      Presentation to the Bank of the program of personnel expenditures for the civil service proposed
for the 1997 budget, comprising the measures agreed jointly and satisfactory to both parties in
the context of the PER.



- 22 -
o      Progress toward the closure of the Restructuring Fund (used to pay off the bad debts of public
enterprises) in accordance with agreed timetable.
Support for Public Sector Reform and Private Sector Development
o      Establish a second privatization program and bring to the point of sale (sale of the whole
enterprise, sale of units of enterprises, opening of capital), operation by the private sector through
concession or management contracting arrangements, or dissolution a part, accepted by both
parties, of this program. (Note: as stated in the Letter of Development Policy, the privatization
program will continue, at a minimum, at the pace of the initial program.)
o      Preparation and adoption by the Council of Government of a draft law establishing the modalities
for the privatization of agricultural land held by the State.
o     Attainment of the established objective for the reduction of overdrafts granted by state-owned
commercial banks.
Social Safety Net
o      Development and adoption by the government of a program, based on the outcome of the Poverty
Assessment and in consultation with the Bank, to improve the social protection system for the
poorest groups. (Note: the results of the recently-completed LSMS will be the key element in
the design of an improved social protection system.)
D.    Procurement, Disbursement, Financial Management, and Auditing
57.          The borrower will be the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Once the loan is approved by the Board, the borrower will be required to open and maintain five Deposit
Accounts, in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, French francs, Japanese yen, and Deutch mark, in its central
bank. As each tranche is released, the borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application, available
from the Loan Department, against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds for the borrower's
use into one or more of the Deposit Accounts denominated in the currency in which the withdrawal is
requested. (The borrower requested this flexibility in terms of the choice of currency of withdrawal, and
the Bank was able to respond positively.) If after deposit into the Deposit Accounts, the proceeds of the
loan or any part thereof is used for ineligible expenditures, as defined in the loan agreement, the Bank
requires the borrower to either (a) return that amount to the Deposit Accounts for use for eligible
purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan. Although the Bank will not routinely require an audit of the Deposit
Accounts, it will reserve the right to do so. The loan will be made on a two-tranche basis. The first
tranche of US$150 million will be eligible for disbursement upon effectiveness. The second tranche of
US$150 million will be conditional upon satisfactory macroeconomic performance (including compliance
with the EFF agreement), satisfactory progress in the implementation of its adjustment program, including
a limited number of specific measures, noted above. The projected date for second tranche release would
be 12 months after loan effectiveness.



- 23 -
E.    Cofrnancing
58.           As noted in the CAS, one of the strategic priorities is to aid the Algerian authorities in
attracting new capital inflows. In that context, the Region plans to seek out parallel financing from the
EU, and from bilateral sources. An EU staff member took part as an observer in the pre-appraisal
mission.
F.    Environmental Assessment
59.           The project is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies and will follow accepted
Bank procedures concerning the environment.  The project has been given a C rating.  In past
privatization operations, the question of environmental liability for past pollution has been an issue.
During the consultation process on the privatization law, the Bank has insisted on the importance of
establishing, on the basis of environmental audits, a clear division of responsibility between the state and
the potential new owners for remedying damage caused by past pollution. During the privatization
process, the Bank will monitor Algeria's performance in this regard.
G.    Program Benefits and Risks
60.           The risks are great. This is not business as usual. This is a loan with a significant
possibility of failure. As noted in the CAS, these perils fall in three main categories: (i) a possible
deterioration in the security situation; (ii) risks associated with Algeria's high level of debt; and (iii) risks
associated with Algeria's dependence on hydrocarbon exports.
61.           The greatest risk is the unstable security situation. Presidential elections were held on
November 16, 1995. Turnout was unexpectedly high; the elections have increased the probability of a
peaceful resolution of the security situation (see the CAS). While all four candidates endorsed the reform
program, the winning candidate was the incumbent, Mr. Zeroual, whose government enacted the reforms.
He named an new government in January 1996. That government restated its agreement with the thrust
of the CAS before it was presented to the Board. Still, this government has not yet been able to reduce
or eliminate the threat of violence. The best strategy for the Bank in dealing with this security-related
risk is to ensure that the adjustment program supported by the SAL is well-designed, provides an
appropriate social safety net component, is moving forward in a timely fashion, and begins to show clear
and tangible benefits.
62.           Algeria's debt, at more than US$30 billion, is high and will grow rapidly during the
program period. The risk is greatest after the rescheduling period ends in 1998. At that point Algeria's
total debt will top US$38 billion. The strategy proposed to minimize this risk is the following. First,
by pursuing the stabilization and adjustment program, Algeria will become a better credit risk as its
economy grows faster than the growth in external debt. Second, the authorities would put in place a
program, for which we will propose technical assistance through an IDF grant, to improve external
liability management. One component of the program would be the development of a debt management
strategy for the late 1990s. Another element would be the analysis of the possibilities for debt buybacks
and swaps, permitted under Algeria's draft commercial bank rescheduling agreement. Other countries
have allowed creditors to exchange debt for equity in the context of privatization programs; another
possibility is to use privatization receipts directly for debt buybacks. Third, Algeria's program of
hydrocarbon investments provides an opportunity to generate roughly US$2 billion of new annual export
revenue by 1998 that would contribute to debt service capacity. In addition, the CAS recommends a



- 24 -
strategy of Bank assistance to Algeria that would increase hydrocarbon exploration, development, and
exports.
63.           However, this dependence on hydrocarbon exports, as noted above, is the third major
risk. Every dollar fall in the price of a barrel of oil reduces Algeria's exports by more than
US$500 million. And between now and the end of the century, non-hydrocarbon exports are likely to
provide only a marginal contribution to foreign exchange earnings. During the EFF period, through mid-
1998, the Fund will take the lead in assisting the Algerian authorities in coping with the impact of large
gains or losses of oil revenues. In the context of the PER, Bank staff have proposed to the Algerian
authorities some form of explicit or implicit buffer fund to come into play at the end of the EFF program,
in order to reduce the risks of debt service difficulties, to reduce the possibility of policy reversal if
hydrocarbon prices rise sharply, and to help smooth the shock if oil prices fall substantially.
64.          In our assessment, the potential benefits of support to Algeria in the form of the proposed
SAL clearly outweigh the high level of risk. The key benefit of the program will be a major
contribution, along with the IMF EFF, to the creation of the conditions for sustainable development, after
ten years of economic decline in Algeria. The achievement of sustainable growth is likely to be a
necessary although not sufficient condition for an end to the social and political problems faced by the
country. The current government is clearly committed to the creation of a market-based economy in
Algeria and sees the need for ongoing Bank assistance. The actions foreseen under the SAL, notably
privatization and support for private sector growth, will create a clientele for further adjustment,
especially if substantial job creation can be generated, through private sector growth buttressed in the
short run by the proposed program of public works outlined in the CAS.
V. Recommendation
65.           1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommnend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
April 4, 1996
Washington, D.C.



Annex A
Page 1 of 2
Algeria
Most Same region/income group      Next
Latest single year       recent   Mid-East      Lower-       higher
Unit of.                                 estimate    & North     middle-     income
Indicator                                   measure          1970-75      1980-85     1988-93      Africa     income       group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                         local curr.             ..           ..
Headcount index                           % of pop.               ..          ..
Lower poverty line                         local curr.              ..         ..
Headcount index                           % of pop.               ..          ..
GNP per capita                                USS                 950       2,490        1,780       1,980      1,590       4,350
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                      local curr.              ..         ..           ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade                           "                    ..         ..           ..
Consumer price index                       1987=100                31          83         270
Lower income                                                       ..         ..          ..
Food.
Urban                                        "                    ..         79         207
Rural
SOCLAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services  % of GDP               ..         ..         12.7
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                                 % school age pop.          93          92          99          97         104         105
Male                                                             109         102         105         103
Female                                                            75          82          92          90
NMortality
Infant mortality                      per thou. live births    132.0        88.0        52.8        52.3        39.0        35.8
Under 5 mortality                                                 ..          ..        68.0        69.9        61.5        42.6
Irnmunization
Measles                                  % age group              ..        17.0        83.0        81.3        77.6        82.0
DPT                                                                ..       33.0        89.0        84.0        82.2        74.2
Child malnutrition (under-5)                                        ..         ..         9.2
Life expectancy
Total                                       years                 54          61          67          66         67          69
Female advantage                              "                  2.0         2.0         2.4         2.3         5.9         5.9
Total fertility rate                    births per woman          7.4         6.4         3.8         4.7         2.9         2.9
Maternal mortality rate               per 100,000 live births                 129          ..
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security        % of total gov't exp.        ..         ..          ..
Social security coverage               % econ. active pop.         ..          ..        62.0
Access to safe water: total                % of pop.               ..        69.0          ..        83.5          ..        86.7
Urban                                                         84.0         85.0          ..       98.7          ..        93.9
Rural                                                            ..        55.0          ..       69.0          ..        66.7
Access to health care                                              ..          ..          ..        87.4
Population growth rate                 GNP per capita growth rate                     Development diamondb
(u   vege.    t)                           (annual average, percent)                      Life expectancy
4-,                                         5
GNP                              Gross
24-  *...  -.    -*             ~~~~~~~0-                                  per                            pnimary
capita                       enrollment
0                                  I -5
-2-                                        -10
1970-75     1980-85     1988-93              1970-75    1980-85     1988-93               Access to safe water
z  Algeria                                                                                      Algeria
-   Lower-middle-income                                                                    - Lower-middle-income
a. See the technical notes, p.387. b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators, shows the average level of development in the country
compared with its income group. See the introduction.



Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Algeria
Most Same region/income group      Next
Latest single year       recent   Mid-East      Lower-      higher
Unit of                                 estimate    & North     middle-    income
Indicator                                  measure          1970-75      1980-85     1988-93      Africa    income       group
Resources and Expenditures
HMTIAN RESOURCES
Population (mre_1993)                     thousands           16.018      21,887      26,722     261,650   1,096,665    500,507
Age dependency ratio                         ratio              1.07        0.97        0.89        0.87       0.69        0.62
Urban                                      % of pop.            40.3        47.5        54.2        55.2       54.7        71.2
Populationgrowth rate                      annual%               3.1         3.1         2.4         2.7        1.6         1.7
Urban                                                           3.5         4.9         3.9         3.7        2.9         1.8
Labor force (15-64)                       thousands            3.455       4,834       6,503      71,333    459,196     190,136
Agriculture                             % of labor force          39          ..          ..
Industry                                                          24          ..
Female                                                             7           9          10         16          31          29
Females per 100 males
Urban                                     number                  ..         ..          ..
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     thou. sq. km       2,381.74    2,381.74    2,381.74   11,021.26   40,682.67   21,848.14
Density                                 pop. per sq. km         6.73        9.19       10.96       23.10      26.52       22.51
Agricultural land                        %of land area         18.37       16.40       16.19       32.10      39.61       41.26
Change in agricultural land                annual %            -1.31        -1.41      -0.19        0.04       -0.13       0.08
Agricultural land under irrigation            %                 0.56        0.87        1.12       30.59      12.66        8.84
Forests and woodland                      thou. sq. km             ..       0.04        0.04        0.45       5.95        8.04
Deforestation (net)                        annual %                ..         ..        0.76
LSCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households          % of income               ..         ..          47
Share of bottom 40% of households            "                    ..         ..          18
Share of bottom 20% of households            "                    ..         ..           7
EXPENDITURE
Food                                      %ofGDP                  ..          ..        19.9
Staples                                                          ..          ..         6.2
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                   ..          ..         5.9
Cereal imports                        thou. metric tonnes      1.669       5,266       5.821      38.092     66,281      48,947
Food aid in cereals                                               54           2          15       1,249      5,477         544
Food production per capita                1987 =100              125         107         103        102         101         102
Fertilizer consumption                      kgtha                2.8         7.2         2.5        89.9       48.0        67.8
ShareofagricultureinGDP                   %ofGDP                 9.9         8.2        10.8        13.3       15.7         8.0
Housing                                   % of GDP                 ..         ..         5.7
Average household size               persons per household        ..          ..          ..
Urban
Fixed investmnent: housing                % of GDP               2.2          ..         6.5
Fuel and power                            %ofGDP                   ..         ..         1.2
Energy consumption per capita           kg of oil equiv.         373         904         955       1.097      1,595       1,632
Households with electricity
LUrban                                 % of households           ..          ..          ..
Rural
Transport and comnmunication              % of GDP                 ..         ..         3.2
Fixed invesunent: transport equipment         "                  5.9          ..         2.3
Total road length                         thou. km                78          78          75
LVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                   persons             8,095       2.343       2,322          ..      3,277
Population per nurse                                              ..         332        329
Population per hospital bed                                     352           ..        399         633        604         395
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)       % of cases               ..         ..         27          56          ..         51
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                             % of school-age pop.       20          50          60          56         53          53
Female                                       "                   14         42          53          50
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary           pupils per teacher        41           28         27          26          ..         25
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                   27          22          17          21
Pupils reaching grade 4                   % of cohort            93          96          98          95
Repeater rate: primary                  % of total enroll         13           8          7
Illiteracy                            % of pop. (age 15+)        74          51          43          45         19          14
Female                               %of fem. (age 15+)           ..        65          55          57          ..         17
News p aper circulation                  per thou. Opp.           18         26          38          33         74         125
V. orld Bank International Economics Department. Apnl 1995



Annex B
Page 1 of 6
Algeria - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                                     Estimate
Indicator             1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture'                        8.8    10.1    11.1    12.2    11.0        9.1    10.9    10.8       9.5      9.8
Industry'                         37.6    35.2    33.5    32.9    34.9    35.7    34.8    34.7    34.6    30.0
Services'                         35.7    35.9    36.7    35.4    32.2    31.5    33.5    34.6    34.8    38.6
Total Consumption                   70.6    68.1    73.0    70.7    73.4    62.6    67.7    72.2    73.3    72.5
Gross domestic fixed                33.5    30.0    27.2    29.0    28.1    31.8    30.8    29.2    31.5    33.0
investment
Government investment              14.6    11.4    11.9       9.2      8.2     8.3      8.0    10.4    10.1       9.6
Private investment                 18.9    18.6    15.3    19.8    20.0    23.5    22.8    18.8    21.5    23.4
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports(GNFS)b                      13.1    14.7    14.4    18.6    24.3    29.1    25.4    21.9    23.7    25.7
Imports (GNFS)                      17.1    12.8    14.5    18.3    25.8    23.6    23.9    23.2    28.6    31.1
Gross domestic savings              29.4    31.9    27.0    29.3    26.6    37.4    32.3    27.8    26.7    27.5
Gross national savingsc             33.6    36.9    32.1    37.4    31.3    37.7    32.4    28.5    26.7    25.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product             63065   64479   58788   54940   59902   45715   47866   49762   41941   40974
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per        2630.0  2880.0  2810.0  2610.0  2380.0  2030.0  1940.0  1780.0  1690.0  1534.5
capita (current US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, base year 1994)
Gross domestic product at        -0.2%    -0.7%    -1.9%    4.9%    -1.3%    -1.2%     1.6%   -2.2%    -1.2%    3.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income           -21.5%     0.5%    -5.2%    8.8%    -7.2%     1.3%    -2.5%    -6.5%   -2.0%    4.7%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%/o, base year 1994)
Gross domestic product at        -3.0%    -3.5%    -4.5%    2.3%    -3.8%    -3.6%    -0.9%    -4.6%    -4.0%    0.9%
market prices
Total consumption                -7.6%   -10.1%   -6.4%     4.2%    -6.9%    -4.0%    3.1%   -3.6%    -1.8%      1.8%
Private consumption              -8.5%   -11.1%   -7.6%     4.8%    -8.0%    -5.6%    2.5%    -3.8%    -2.3%    2.7%



Annex B
Algeria - Key Economic Indicators                                        Page 2 of 6
(Continued)
Actual                                     Estimate
Indicator             1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                   7959    9290    8347   10147   13395   12819   12056   11005    9580   10556
Merchandise FOB                7470    8737    7811    9569   12880   12387   11439   10410    8890    9745
Imports (GNFS)b                 11163    9407    9767   11336   11481    9628   10336    9597   11080   12813
Merchandise FOB                 8720    7399    7592    9362    9659    7747    8541    7990    9150   10666
Resource balance                 -3204    -117   -1419   -1189    1914    3191    1720    1408   -1500   -2256
Net current transfers             1798    1487    1527    2053    1528    1290    1458    1143    1400    1337
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance          -3435       39   -1903   -1029    1352    2223    1020         802   -1821   -2980
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct         -64    -109       -48     -25      -39      -34        3       -2       0        0
investment
Long-term loans (net)              961      735    1216      412    -439    -984       -90    -335    2012    1755
Disbursementsb                4521    4455    6175    5569    6891    6632    7252    6560    4640    3915
Repayments (scheduled)         3567    3814    4587    5112    6780    7221    7035    7034    7118    6940
Principle Rescheduling           0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0    3965    4325
Interest Rescheduling            0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0     525      455
Net Other LT inflows              7      94    -372       -45    -550    -395    -307        139        0       0
Other capital                     1379    -617      -61        0    -959    -678    -866    -513         298     345
Change in reservesd               1159      -48     796      642       85    -527      -67       48    -489      879
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of             -5.1%    -0.2%    -2.4%    -2.2%   3.2%     7.0%     3.6%    2.8%    -3.6%    -5.5%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1994 prices)
Merchandise exports              -0.6%     5.3%     9.3%    -1.3%    4.6%     0.1%     2.3%    -2.5%    -5.7%    3.2%
(FOB)
Primary                           1.8%    5.9%    -2.0%     8.4%    3.8%     2.0%     1.7%   -0.5%    -3.1%     2.5%
Manufactures                   -92.9%  292.0%        na  -85.9%/o   4.0%   -46.4%    9.5%   -25.6%  -49.1%    7.3%
Merchandise imports              -20.4%   -33.1%   -3.7%   26.4%    -4.0%   -13.90/o  -4.0%   -11.4%    8.7%    10.6%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                   31.9    30.4    27.6    28.9    29.9    32.3    30.3    27.6    28.0    29.2
Current expenditures               21.6    21.0    22.0    19.9    18.1    22.2    22.6    24.9    23.4    22.2



Annex B
Algeria - Key Economic Indicators                                       Page 3 of 6
(Continued)
Actual                                     Estimate
Indicator            1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Current account surplus (+)        10.2     9.4      5.5     9.1    11.8    10.0       7.7      2.7     4.5      7.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure               20.6    16.6    17.9    10.8        8.0     8.3      8.9    11.3    10.5       9.7
Foreign financing                   0.1     0.8      1.5     0.6      0.6     0.6    -0.3      0.1      9.4    12.8
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market         76.5    82.5    84.3    73.7    63.9    49.3    49.4    53.8    49.2    41.8
prices)
Growth ofM2 (%)                     1.4    13.6    13.6      5.2    11.3    21.3    24.0    21.2    15.8    12.9
Private sector credit growth/       8.6    14.3    32.1   -96.5    35.4   100.9   137.2  -237.9   645.3   140.0
total credit growth (%/6)
Price indices (1994 = 100)
Merchandiseexportprice             94.1   104.5    85.5   105.9   136.0   131.7   117.7   107.9   100.0   106.2
index
Merchandise import price           64.0    74.5    81.3    79.7    86.7    78.1    88.7    94.9   100.0   105.7
index
Merchandise terns of trade        147.1   140.3   105.2   132.8   156.9   168.5   132.6   113.7   100.0   100.5
index
Real exchange rate indexr          31.1    35.3    43.7    49.8    55.1    88.5    87.0    77.5   100.0    88.7
Consumer price index             12.4%    7.4%     5.9%    9.3%    16.6%   22.8%   31.8%   20.5%   29.0%   29.6%
(% growth rate)
GDPdeflator                       1.9%    6.2%/'o  13.3%    14.6%   30.1 %   59.3%   21.80/%O   13.60/%o  28.1 %   28.4%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. An increase denotes depreciation.



Annex B
Algeria - External Debt Stocks and Flows                                                     Page 4 of 6
(USS millions at current prices)
Actual'                                              Estimate'
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990        1991        1992        1993        1994      1995
A. Gross disbursements
Public & publicly guaranteed           4521.0   4455.0   6175.0   5569.0   6891.0        6632.0      7252.0      6560.0      4640.0    3915.3
Official multilateral creditors, of whi    314.0    270.0    468.0    459.0    613.0  955.0       553.0      460.0       506.0    1208.5
IDA                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
IBRD                           138.0    129.0    170.0    204.0    300.0         347.0       268.0       182.0       299.8      453.0
Oflicial bilateral creditors       326.0    249.0    301.0    679.0   1238.0         964.0       912.0       909.0      1227.0    1157.9
Private creditors, ofwhich        3881.0   3936.0   5406.0   4431.0   5040.0        4713.0      5787.0      5191.0      2907.0    1548.8
Bonds                          93.0     50.0    447.0    232.0        0.0          1.0        0.0         0.0       116.0        0.0
Private creditors nonguaranteed          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total LTb loan disbursements          4521.0   4455.0   6175.0   5569.0   6891.0         6632.0      7252.0      6560.0      4640.0    3915.3
Net ST" credit                           0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0       -93.0       -50.0     360.0
Drawings from IMF                        0.0       0.0      0.0    604.0        0.0       308.0         0.0         0.0       853.0     614.0
Total disbursements (LT+ST+IMF)       4521.0   4455.0   6175.0   6173.0   6891.0         6940.0      7252.0      6467.0      5443.0    4889.3
B. Amortizations
Public & publicly guaranteed           3567.0   3814.0   4587.0   5112.0   6780.0        7221.0      7035.0      7034.0      3153.2    2615.4
Official multilateral creditors, of whi    104.0    184.0    208.0    213.0    314.0  392.0       338.0       355.0       539.0     522.3
IDA                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0
IBRD                            51.0      79.0    112.0    112.0    130.0         176.0       166.0      170.0       200.0      256.9
Official bilateral creditors       656.0    703.0    758.0    797.0    890.0         901.0       896.0       907.0       198.0      431.1
Private creditors, of which       2807.0   2927.0   3621.0   4102.0   5576.0        5928.0      5801.0      5772.0      2416.1    1661.9
Bonds                          27.0      58.0     98.0      40.0      16.0         5.0       129.0      663.0       413.0      371.0
Private creditors nonguaranteed          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total LT loan amortization            3567.0   3814.0   4587.0   5112.0   6780.0         7221.0      7035.0      7034.0      3153.2    2615.4
Repayments to IMF                        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       166.0       329.0       195.0     170.0
Total amortization (LT+IMF)           3567.0   3814.0   4587.0   5112.0   6780.0         7221.0      7201.0      7363.0      3348.2    2785.4
C. Net disbursements
Public & publicly guaranteed            954.0    641.0   1588.0    457.0    111.0        -589.0       217.0      -474.0      1486.8    1299.9
Official multilateral creditors, of whi    210.0  86.0    260.0    246.0    299.0     563.0       215.0       105.0       -33.0     686.2
IDA                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
IBRD                            87.0      50.0     58.0      92.0    170.0        171.0       102.0        12.0        99.8     196.1
Official bilateral creditors      -330.0   -454.0   -457.0   -118.0    348.0          63.0        16.0         2.0      1029.0      726.8
Private creditors, of which       1074.0   1009.0   1785.0    329.0   -536.0    -1215.0           -14.0     -581.0       490.9    -113.1
Bonds                          66.0      -8.0    349.0    192.0    -16.0         -4.0       -129.0     -663.0       -297.0    -371.0
a. Data through 1993 from Debt Reporting System (DRS); 1994-95 data estimated by country operations division staff.
b. "LT" denotes "long-term," "ST" denotes "short-term."



Annex B
Algeria - External Debt Stocks and Flows                                                        Page 5 of 6
(USS millions at current prices)
Actual'                                            Estimate'
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990       1991        1992        1993       1994       1995
Private creditors nonguaranteed         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total LT" loan net disbursements      954.0    641.0   1588.0    457.0    111.0       -589.0      217.0      -474.0      1486.8    1299.9
Net ST" credit                          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0       -93.0       -50.0     360.0
Net credit from IMF                     0.0      0.0       0.0    604.0      0.0       308.0     -166.0      -329.0      658.0      444.0
Total net disbursements (LT+ST+IMF)   954.0    641.0   1588.0   1061.0    111.0       -281.0       51.0      -896.0      2094.8    2103.9
D. Interest and charges
Public & publicly guaranteed          1549.0   1567.0   1682.0   1740.0   1783.0      1789.0      1833.0      1704.0     1223.4    1660.9
Official multilateral creditors, of wh  69.0  88.0   93.0      97.0    116.0       153.0      200.0       212.0       238.0     295.1
IDA                             0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
IBRD                           46.0     62.0     72.0      70.0     73.0       107.0      112.0       113.0       115.9     143.3
Official bilateral creditors     243.0    218.0    236.0    210.0    200.0        203.0       201.0       187.0       86.3     211.0
Privatecreditors,ofwhich        1237.0   1261.0   1353.0   1433.0   1467.0       1433.0      1432.0      1305.0      899.1    1154.9
Bonds                         58.0     60.0     63.0      91.0    105.0        98.0       90.0        68.0        52.0      13.9
Private creditors nonguaranteed         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total interest on LTloans            1549.0   1567.0   1682.0   1740.0   1783.0       1789.0      1833.0     1704.0      1223.4    1660.9
Intereston ST credit                   36.0     65.0    272.0    126.0    179.0        100.0      200.0        36.0        66.0      36.0
Interest on IMF drawings                0.0      0.0       0.0     22.0     62.0        59.0       69.0        42.0        25.0      61.0
Total interest (LT+ST+IMF)           1585.0   1632.0   1954.0   1888.0   2024.0       1948.0     2102.0      1782.0      1314.4    1757.9
E. Extemal debt (DOD)c
Public & publicly guaranteed        19498.0  23095.0  24421.0  24638.0  26397.0    25964.0    25226.0    24587.0    26598.8   29697.6
Official multilateral creditors, of wh  925.0   1211.0   1391.0   1610.0   2039.0  2667.0    2768.0      2872.0      2839.0    3525.2
IDA                             0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
IBRD                          693.0    924.0    895.0    960.0   1208.0       1413.0     1474.0      1512.0      1611.8    1807.9
Official bilateral creditors    3380.0   3473.0   3306.0   3120.0   3674.0       3798.0      3682.0     3683.0      4841.6    5700.2
Private creditors, ofwhich      15193.0  18411.0  19724.0  19908.0  20684.0    19499.0    18776.0    18032.0    18918.2   20472.2
Bonds                        777.0    823.0   1169.0   1347.0   1420.0       1436.0     1281.0       645.0       348.0     -23.0
Private creditors nonguaranteed         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total LT DOD                        19498.0  23095.0  24421.0  24638.0  26397.0    25964.0    25226.0    24587.0    26598.8   29697.6
ST debt                              3152.0   1315.0   1621.0   1840.0    791.0       1239.0       793.0      700.0       650.0    1010.0
Use oflMF credit                        0.0      0.0       0.0    619.0    670.0       995.0      795.0       471.0      1129.0    1573.0
Total DOD (LT+ST+IMF), of which:    22650.0  24410.0  26042.0  27097.0  27858.0    28198.0    26814.0    25758.0    28377.8   32280.6
Principal arrears                   0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Interest arrears                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
a. Data through 1993 from Debt Reporting System (DRS); 1994-95 data estimated by country operations division staff.
b. "LT' denotes "long-term," "ST" denotes "short-term."
c. "DOD" denotes "debt outsanding and disbursed"



Annex B
Algeria - External Debt Stocks and Flows                                                    Page 6 of 6
(USS millions at current prices)
Acal'                                                  Estimate 
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990        1991          99Z 2      13           14         1995
F. Debt and debt burden indicators
(based on data in parts A-E)
Total debt service(US$ millions)         5152.0   5446.0   6541.0   7000.0   8804.0           9169.0       9303.0      9145.0       4662.5    4543.3
Interest (LT + ST + IMF)b            1585.0    1632.0    1954.0   1888.0   2024.0         1948.0      2102.0       1782.0      1314.4      1757.9
Principal (LT+IMF)                   3567.0   3814.0   4587.0   5112.0   6780.0           7221.0      7201.0       7363.0      3348.2    2785.4
Total DOD' and TDSd
DOD/exports(XGS')ratio                238.1     220.9     263.0    229.9       185.5       198.2        195.1       206.8       252.0       264.4
DOD/ GDP ratio                         35.9      37.9       44.3      49.3      46.5        61.7         56.0        51.8         67.7       78.8
TDS/exports(XGS)ratio                  54.1      49.3       66.1      59.4      58.6        64.5         67.7        73.4         41.4       37.2
IBRD exposure indicators:
IBRDDSr/publicloanDS                   1.9       2.6       2.9        2.6       2.4         3.1         3.1          3.2          7.2        9.4
Preferred creditor DS / public DS      3.4       5.1        4.8       4.8       5.7         6.7          8.5        10.3         21.7       23.3
IBRD DS / exports (XGS)                 1.0       1.3       1.9       1.5       1.4         2.0         2.0          2.3          2.8        3.3
Country share in IBRD portfolio         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1          1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5         1.7
Memorandum items
Factor payments / exports (XGS) ratios
Interest payments/ exports            16.7       14.8      19.7      16.0      13.5        13.7         15.3        14.3         16.3       18.1
Total factorpayments/exports          23.1       14.9      21.0      17.0      14.4        16.4         16.5        15.3         16.3       18.1
a. Data through 1993 from Debt Reporting System (DRS); 1994-95 data estimated by country operations division staff.
b. "LT" denotes 'long-term," "ST" denotes "short-term."
c. "DOD" denotes "debt outsanding and disbursed"
d. "TDS" denotes "total debt service."
e. "XGS" denotes "exports of goods and services," which comprises exports of goods, nonfactor services, factor receipts, and workers' remittances
f. 'DS" denotes "debt service."



Annex C
Page I of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
1.    World Bank Group involvement in Algeria has been intermittent.  After a nine-year
moratorium, Bank lending resumed in 1973. By 1980, 23 IBRD projects with commitments totaling
over US$1.1 billion had been approved. Over time, increasing disagreement on project selection and
implementation criteria resulted in low disbursement rates. Several operations were canceled by
mutual agreement in 1980, and another interruption in Bank lending followed. A new agreement led to
renewed lending, and in 1984 and 1985, three projects totaling US$680 million were approved.
Subsequent improvements in the dialogue led to a large increase in the lending program. Between
1987 and 1992, 26 operations, with associated commitments of almost US$2.3 billion, were approved.
These operation included two adjustment loans: the US$300 million ERSL and the US$350 million
EFSAL, approved in June 1991. The EFSAL was co-financed in the amount of US$300 million by the
Export-Import Bank of Japan. Bank lending declined again in 1993, in large measure due to the slow-
down of economic reform. However, higher lending resumed in 1994 with the approval of a US$110
million Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation project, and a US$51 million Emergency
Reconstruction project for the Mascara region. In January, 1995, a sixth Highways project for US$130
million was approved, as well as the Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan, a US$150 million one-
tranche adjustment operation.
2.    The IBRD's Algeria portfolio is one of the largest in the Middle East and North Africa region.
As of February 29, 1996, cumulative commitments to Algeria stood at US$4,870 million (less
cancellations). Of this total, some US$1,774 million has been repaid and US$751 million was
undisbursed (see attached table). As of the same date, IFC commitments were US$10 million, almost
completely disbursed. The Bank's share of Algeria's total debt (6 percent) and MLT debt service (9
percent) are low compared to other Bank borrowers.
3.    As noted in the CAS, and in close collaboration with the authorities, the Bank is engaged in a
broad effort to improve the performance of the project portfolio. A full country portfolio review
(CPPR) was carried out in July 1993, which resulted in action plans to address the key issues affecting
the Bank's portfolio, including closing several problem  projects.  Subsequent disruptions in
implementation, arising from the security situation and a lack of counterpart funds, led to further
restructuring in 1995, resulting in the closure of 4 loans. A thorough portfolio review in January 1996
was followed by a February visit to Algeria, during which agreement was reached to restructure 8
projects and cancel about US$80 million. Until the security situation improves, the Bank is working
with known and experienced imnplementing agencies and is keeping project designs sirnple.
4.    Other members of the World Bank Group are active in Algeria. The IFC's strategy for Algeria
focuses on the hydrocarbon sector, due to its strategic importance. The IFC approved its first project
in 1992 -- a US$10 million loan to Helios, a joint venture between SONATRACH and foreign investors
to produce helium gas for export. At present, IFC is preparing an oil recovery venture in conjunction
with ARCO; the IFC has been requested to take part in a US$125 million syndicated loan. FIAS
completed a review of Algeria's investment climate in 1992, and Algeria signed the MIGA Convention
in April 1995, but has not yet completed its membership requirements.



Annex C
Page 2of3
Algeria - Status of Bank Group Operations
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of February 29,1996)
Difference
Proiects                                                                                  Original amount                          between actual
in USS millions                         and expected
Project ID     Fiscal Year   Borrower                            Purpose          IBRD        IDA  Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements a/
38 Loans closed                                                                       2486.46                              10.46
DZ-PA-4903          87      Government                  Nat. Water Supply 11          250.00                              60.35              60.35
DZ-PA-4904          88      SONELGAZ                    Power III                      160.00                0.57         38.12              38.68
DZ-PA-4907          95      Rep. of Algeria             Highways VI                    130.00                            127.00               10.00
DZ-PA-4914          88      Govt. of Algeria            Voc. Training                   54.00                             16.51               15.81
DZ-PA-4917          89      Rep. of Algeria             Ports III                       63.00                             45.64              45.64
DZ-PA-4923          90      Government                  Research & Extension            32.00                             25.82              21.58
DZ-PA4925           90      Govt. Algeria/Enterprise    Ind. Restructuring D            99.50                0.45         23.47              23.39
DZ-PA-4929          89      Government                  Mitidja Irrigation             110.00               40.00         27.96              63.57
DZ-PA-4934          91       Govt. of Algeria           University Develop.             65.00                             50.63               50.63
DZ-PA-4938          92      Government                  Sahara Develop.                 57.00                             52.14               33.15
DZ-PA-4939          90      Government                  Technical Assistance            26.00                              7.35                7.35
DZ-PA-4944          92       Govt. ofAlgeria            Foresty & Watershed             25.00                             17.85                2.61
DZ-PA-4952          92      SONATRACH                   First Petroleum                100.00                             15.00               15.00
DZ-PA-4954          93      Govt. of Algeria            Basic & Secondary Educ.         40.00                             33.73                4.23
DZ-PA-4964          92      Rep. of Algeria             Cadastre                        33.00                             17.91               (5.29)
DZ-PA-4974          94      Govt. of Algeria            Water Supply & Sewer           110.00                            103.03               11.43
DZ-PA-4976          93      Rep. of Algeria             Housing Completion             200.00                              6.94               (8.24)
DZ-PA-34140         94      Govt. ofAlgeria             Locust Control                  30.00                             24.84               24.84
DZ-PA-38695         95       Govt. of Algeria           Mascara Emerg. Reconst.         51.00                             46.00               12.70
1,635.50               41.02       740.29              427.43
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                                       3,510.67
Of which has been repaid                                                            1,773.61
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                                       2,302.78
Amount sold                                                                             36.37
Of which repaid                                                                        36.37
Total Undisbursed                                                                     750.75
Adiustment Lendine
3 operations closed                                                                   798.79                                0.00
a/ Actual disbursements to date less intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex C
Page 3 of 3
Statement of IFC Investments
(as of February 29, 1996)
Amount in USS millions
Fiscal Year     Obligor                         Business            Loan               Equity            Total
92      Helios S.P.A.              Chemicals and                    10.0                              10.0
Petrochemicals
Total Gross Commitments                                                  10.0
Less cancellations, terminations,                                         0.7
sales and exchange adjustments
Total Commitments now held by IFC                                         9.3
Total undisbursed (including participant's portion)                       0.0






Annex D
Page I of 25
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF
ALGERIA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
April 3, 1996
Minister of Finance
To the President of the World Bank
Mr. President:
Please find attached a Letter of Development Policy concerning the Structural
Adjustment Loan which has been recently negotiated between the World Bank and the
Algerian authorities.
Please accept, Mr. President, the expression of my sincere consideration.
Ahmed Benbitour



Annex D
Page 2 of 25
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1- Introduction and Summary
1-1- The challenge:
The Algerian economy faces an important challenge if it wishes to enter the
XXI Century in an environment that will enable its successful integration into the world
economy. Indeed, it must quickly restore sound and sustainable growth in order to correct
past imbalances, which have affected the productive sector as well as the social, monetary and
budgetary sectors. Equitable growth is a necessary condition to alleviate unemployment and
enhance the standard of living of the population.
Demographic growth implies extensive social needs in education, public health,
housing and economic infrastructure that necessitate large financial resources, as well as
institutional reforms to improve the administration's efficiency and organization.  The
challenge facing the authorities arises in the context of resource scarcity. Therefore, it will be
necessary to establish the conditions for optimal use of available resources, while ensuring the
stability of the macroeconomic framework in particular. Some sectors will receive maximum
priority due to their essential role for growth: housing, taking into account the severe crisis in
this sector and its spillover effects and impact on employment; and agriculture, in relation to
the need to reduce food dependency and slow down rural migration.
The objective of equitable growth is ambitious, taking into account expected medium-
term resource availability and the tight internal and external balances. With regard to external
balances, long-term sustainability of the balance of payments must be ensured through the
hydrocarbon sector and a larger contribution from export sectors, as well as through
establishing an adequate external debt service profile. Management of internal balances will
entail, for the Treasury, the maintenance of a budget surplus, which will be used both to
consolidate economic stabilization and to finance the expected growth by making resources
available to finance investments.
1-2- The medium-term vision for the economy:
1-2-1- The new role of the State:
Starting with the implementation of the first development plans in the 1970s in the
context of a centralized economy, the State attempted to undertake many functions that could
have been assumed by other economic agents. Private savings outside the hydrocarbon sector
were insufficient and the State became practically the sole investor. Through 1988, public
investments were mainly financed through temporary or permanent contributions from the



Annex D
Page 3 of 25
Treasury. Since then, with the advent of the implementation of economic reforms, the State
no longer intervenes directly in productive investment financing. Direct control of public
enterprises was replaced by monitoring of these enterprises through participation funds,
fiduciary agents responsible for the management of State assets. Virtually all but 20 national
public enterprises became autonomous, and are managed in accordance with private sector
management rules. Recently, the participation funds were dissolved. Ownership of public
enterprises will be transferred to holdings, thereby strengthening the reform process.
In this context, the State will pursue its disengagement from competitive sectors. To
ensure the transition to a market economy, the State will require that holdings achieve their
goal of developing and re-stabilizing their equity and stock portfolios. The State will thus
gradually disengage from competitive activities, particularly from activities where the private
sector has the capacity to take over without creating significant market disruptions. Trade,
services (except for basic public utilities) and small processing industries should no longer
remain in its portfolio.
By gradually disengaging from the productive sphere as an economic agent, the State
will be better positioned to play its regulatory role. As such it will ensure that economic
agents function in a stable macroeconomic framework that fosters initiative and investment.
The State will ensure the development and sustainability of market competition by enacting
and enforcing relevant laws and regulations. The State will continue to play its role of
guarantor of the respect of the rules of the market, in goods and services, as well as the
financial and labor markets.
1-2-2- Stimulating growth:
Economic performance has stagnated for several years, despite important latent
production capacity in industry, construction and public works, and agricultural land. Using
modem techniques, this capacity could be far more productive than it is today. Efforts will be
made to take better advantage of these opportunities by focusing on restructuring and
enhancing the national productive capital stock. Macroeconomic constraints to market-related
growth have been removed, but adjustment policies still need to be adopted to restore
enterprise performance through improved cost-effectiveness criteria. Therefore, improvements
in growth should first result from a better use of existing potential, and thereafter result from
new investments that allow technological upgrading of productive capacities in order to
achieve improved competitiveness. The hydrocarbon sector will still be expected to contribute
to the growth objective, first because of its leading role for a sustainable external balance, but
also because of its capacity to generate residual savings to finance investments in other
activities.
Growth will also depend on the expected dynamism of the private sector, both in areas
where it is already predominant and in new activities in which it will invest using the
mechanisms of the new investment code. To alleviate and gradually reduce unemployment,



Annex D
Page 4 of 25
productive investment will be fostered by a sound macroeconomic incentive framework in
labor-intensive sectors and in export-oriented activities.
In order for growth to be stable and sustainable, enterprises will have to obtain the
necessary resources to finance their investments and their current operations. The financial
sector, through modernization and the development of capital markets, will have to play a
dynamic role in establishing active and sound financial intermediation based on prudential
regulation and competition rules. These adjustments will ensure better mobilization of savings
and will orient credit towards financing profitable productive activities.
1-2-3- The employment challenge:
One of the most important challenges facing the authorities is undoubtedly the issue of
unemployment.  With a rate of approximately 25 percent of the labor force in 1995,
unemployment will probably increase during a first phase of economic adjustment and public
enterprise restructuring. Indeed the viable solution to this severe problem lies in strong and
sustainable growth. The sectors where a significant number of jobs are expected to be created
-- construction and public works, agriculture and small and medium enterprises -- will have an
essential role to play. However, it is possible that the effects of this growth, with respect to
employment, will only be felt in the medium term due to the lag between investment and
output growth, even if new investments are labor intensive. It will thus be essential to plan for
transitional mechanisms capable of partially complementing the potential weakness of job
supply during the next few years.
1-2-4- Maintaining a stable and sustainable macroeconomic framework and sustainable internal
and external balances:
The success of growth recovery policies depends on the stability of the macroeconomic
framework.  This stability will be guaranteed by improving and maintaining external
competitiveness of the economy, establishing viable market economy rules and strictly
managing public financial resources. Controlling inflation, which is at the base of this
stability, will remain a major concern for the authorities.  This control depends on an
increased supply of goods and services entering the market, control of the wage bill and the
maintenance of positive real interest rates, stimulating both household savings and enterprise
investment.
1-2-5- Protecting vulnerable groups of the population:
The authorities expect to implement the reform program at a cost that is equitably
distributed among all social groups of the population. It has been established that the most
vulnerable groups of the population, individuals with low income or no income, suffer most
from the impact of adjustment, through changes in relative prices or the temporary tightening
of the labor market. Hence, the authorities plan to maintain the newly-established social
assistance system, which would be improved and expanded in order to ensure that assistance



Annex D
Page 5 of 25
reaches those most in need. In particular, a self-targeted income transfer program involving
work on state infrastructure or social needs will be financed by the State so that a minimum
income can be guaranteed to each individual willing to work and unable to access the labor
market.
1-3- Summary of the principal measures supported by the SAL:
1-3-1- Budgetary measures:
The strict budgetary policy of the authorities has already resulted in a reduction of the
Treasury deficit from 8.9 percent of GDP in 1993 to 4.6 percent in 1994 and 1.4 percent in
1995. This stringency will be continued and accompanied by qualitative measures to increase
the effectiveness and efficiency of budgetary expenditures. For 1996, the following sectoral
measures have been taken: (i) for education, the stabilization of the number of personnel and a
parallel increase in expenditure on teacher training; (ii) for health, extra spending on
pharmaceutical products and the strengthening of preventative medicine. The review of the
budget has also identified possibilities for reallocating resources, especially from economic
activities to the housing sector, in order to improve efficiency,.
The principles guiding this quest for efficiency and effectiveness will apply to the
preparation of the 1997 budget.  These measures have been taken in order to maintain
macroeconomic stability, which is the foundation of sustainable growth.
1-3-2- Reform of public enterprises:
Public enterprise reform began in 1988 with the abolition of supervision by ministries,
the granting of autonomy to public enterprises, and the introduction of fiduciary agents
(Participation Funds) responsible for managing their equity portfolios.
An initiative relating to the 23 largest enterprises that remain non-autonomous was
introduced in 1995 (plans for financing rehabilitation, restructuring, performance contracts,
and redeployment and/or passage to autonomy); the implementation of this initiative will be
completed in the first quarter of 1996. To improve monitoring, the development of a system
for tracking inter-enterprise debts in the public sector is planned. Public enterprise reform is
based on the introduction of holding companies, which manage the shares of the autonomous
public enterprises.
These holding companies must increase the profitability of their portfolios. They are
therefore responsible for moving capital between affiliated commercial companies only when
the interest of the companies requires it.



Annex D
Page 6 of 25
1-3-3- Reform of the financial sector:
In the financial sector, a good understanding of the financial position of public banks is
necessary to undertake reform measures to bring this sector to the desired level of
performance. Audits of the five public banks have been completed. On this basis, the banks
have been recapitalized. Management contracts requiring the respect of prudential regulations
have been put in place. At the same time, interest-rate ceilings on bank loans were replaced
by maximum interest-rate margins; the margins themselves were then eliminated. Accounting
rules and standards of evaluation for foreign-currency transactions have been adopted, along
with the introduction of an interbank foreign-currency market.  In the same manner,
accounting rules and standards of evaluation for transferable securities will be adopted. Other
measures necessary to make effective the banks' and the Treasury's interventions in the capital
market are listed in the matrix in Attachment 2.
A study on the opening up of the capital and/or the private management of at least one
of the five existing public banks has just been completed. It will serve as the basis for a plan
of action for implementing privatization. As for the capital market, the recent Treasury bonds
auctions represent an notable important step.  Rules and procedures for auctioning new
securities and bonds have been adopted. The previously promulgated stock market law was
amended to permit the operation of a secondary market for the trading of Treasury bonds, to
authorize stock brokers to take part in other markets for transferable securities, and to lift
controls on the origins of capital invested in the stock market. The commission for organizing
the monitoring of stock-market operations has been put in place and has defined its terms of
reference.
Finally, it is notable that the range of possible financial instruments was diversified by
the introduction of a legal framework permitting leasing and factoring, in order to allow more
appropriate financing of investment and more effective loan recovery.
1-3-4- Privatization:
The privatization law has been promulgated, along with its implementation texts, and
the relevant commissions have been created. Following a pilot operation in the hotel sector,
the privatization process has already begun on the basis of existing legislation. A sizable
program of privatization encompassing a significant number of enterprises (see Attachment 2)
has begun and will be completed in the near future. The implementing system, which consists
of local and sectoral privatization committees and a monitoring committee, is already operating
to ensure the success of this initial phase of privatization under conditions of efficiency and
transparency. This initial program will be followed by a second one of comparable size,
which will benefit from the experience gained during the initial phase and from more favorable
institutional conditions.



Annex D
Page 7 of 25
1-3-5- Housing:
Housing sector reform measures had already begun during 1994, notably including the
adoption of a restructuring plan for the housing bank (CNEP), the liberalization of
construction prices for public housing, and a 20 percent increase in subsidized rents. The
undertaking and deepening of these reforms is being carried out in concertation with the
authorities' national housing strategy. A financing plan for the public housing program for the
current year has been adopted. As for 1995, the active participation of the private sector in
public housing construction is expected.
1-3-6- Agriculture:
The organization of agricultural production has improved thanks to the reform of the
agricultural sector through the dissolution, beginning in 1987, of socialist agricultural farms
and the distribution of their territories to collective and individual operations.  The new
beneficiaries have usufruct rights over the land for an indefinite period, which they can pass
on to their descendants, as well as ownership rights over the farm buildings and equipment.
Sector reform was strengthened by the promulgation of legislation permitting the restitution of
agricultural land to the owners who previously ceded their land to the State (amendment in
1995 to Directive 95-25).
1-3-7- Social safety net:
A social safety net has been put in place to lessen the impact of adjustment on low-
income households, especially following the reduction of food subsidies. The initial system
was restructured to respond to the needs of the old and handicapped as well as those of the
unemployed without income. The current system thus has two parts: (i) an income transfer to
people without income who are over 60 or handicapped, and (ii) a cash transfer to working-
age people without a job or other source of income who participate in a public works scheme.
Moreover, in order to reduce the negative impact of enterprise restructuring on employment,
the authorities implemented a system of unemployment insurance, which is funded by
contributions from workers and firms and by entry fees paid by the firms concerned.
2- Macroeconomic framework in the context of the SAL
2-1- Objectives:
The successful implementation of the reform program requires the guarantee of a stable
macroeconomic framework. For this purpose, the authorities have developed a medium-term
program covering monetary, budgetary, trade and pricing policy whose main objective is to
reduce inflation to the level of Algeria's trading partners in the next three years. This is a
prerequisite for economic recovery and its sustainability. The program must be maintained in
order to gain the confidence of foreign economic partners. It is expected that the framework
to be put in place will be sufficient to attract non-resident investors; direct investment



Annex D
Page 8 of 25
financing will replace debt financing of external debt.
This program will also enable the development of market competitiveness and
encourage enterprises to develop quality products, facilitating access to foreign markets.
(Implementation of the new competition law is important in this regard.) It becomes indeed
imperative that hydrocarbon exports are no longer the only source of external income and that
exports of manufactured goods begin to play a role.
2-2- Monetary policy and interest rates:
Since April 1994 monetary policy has relied on a significant increase of interest rates
applied to bank refinancing in the context of the liberalization of interbank money market
rates, accompanied by a substantial adjustment of the exchange rate. This strict management
of monetary policy resulted in a drop of 6 points in the liquidity ratio in 1994 compared to
1993. The shift to indirect instruments of monetary policy, which was reinforced by the
implementation of public tender operations in May 1995, as well as the implementation at the
end of 1995 of Treasury bill auctions, has consolidated the evolution of monetary policy
instruments.
With respect to interest rates, the flexibility of money market rates helped to minimize
the pressure on banking system liquidity. Monetary stabilization has been consolidated with a
view to fully liberalize bank lending rates, and in this context, as of December 1995, the
ceiling on bank margins was removed.
Overall, the anticipated expanded role played by public auctioning of refinancing
credits will contribute to the development of a credit market as an anchor for sound bank
portfolios.  Similarly, the development of a government securities market, particularly in
relation to the management of public debt, will enable open market operations in 1996.
Finally, the development of indirect monetary policy instruments is consistent with the goal of
reaching positive real interest rates.
2-3- Budgetary policy:
The fundamental principles guiding budgetary policy are the need to avoid higher
inflation on the one hand, and to avoid denying private sector access to necessary investment
capital on the other hand. For this purpose, the authorities will maintain the objective of a
Treasury surplus, taking into account the level of public debt service, particularly after 1998
when debt rescheduling will end. Economic growth, accompanied by greater efficiency of
budget administration, should contribute both to a Treasury surplus and to a tightening of the
State's current and capital expenditures.  With respect to capital expenditures, it will be
necessary to maintain the level of resources allocated to education and public health. At the
same time, the authorities will work to ensure efficient resource allocation of the investment
budget between all sectors, and the efficient use of these resources. Priority will continue to
be given to water and agriculture.  Rationalizing expenditures will depend on a stricter



Annex D
Page 9 of 25
management of personnel together with modernizing the civil service. Finally, one of the
Government's budget priorities will be to free up resources for social housing. As for the
Restructuring Fund, the authorities will proceed with the closing of this fund in accordance
with the schedule established in 1994 (see Attachment 3).
24- Foreign exchange regime and external trade liberalization:
The liberalization of the external trade and foreign exchange regimes was initiated in
April 1994, in the context of the stabilization program. The 40 percent depreciation of the
dinar that took place at that time was the anchor for the flexibility of the foreign exchange
regime, supported by the strict application of appropriate monetary and financial policies. The
introduction of daily fixing sessions in September 1994 confirmed the shift from a fixed
foreign exchange regime to a flexible exchange rate determined by auction.
Liberalization of imports was pursued starting in 1994, and was achieved in the
beginning of 1995 despite pressure on the foreign exchange market resulting from unfavorable
external factors. Except for travel expenses abroad, current account convertibility is already a
reality. In January 1996, an interbank foreign exchange market was created.
Furthermore, the foreign exchange market has been gradually decentralized, operating
at the level of banks and licensed intermediaries.  Revenues from  exports other than
hydrocarbons and minerals are directly repatriated on the foreign exchange interbank market,
and 50 percent of these receipts are traded on the market. In this initial phase, foreign
exchange resources generated by these sales represent the main share of resources available to
banks and financial institutions. The expected increase in foreign exchange resources of
licensed intermediaries and the increase in the number of participants will contribute to an
efficient allocation of resources on the foreign exchange interbank market. The development
of this market will be supported by applying prudential monitoring standards for the foreign
exchange positions of financial institutions.
2-5- Pricing policy and incentive framework:
Until recently, the system of relative prices contained major distortions due to the fact
that they were not determined according to market rules but were centrally determined. Since
1988, with the advent of reform, the State gradually liberalized the prices of goods and
services, the majority of which are now determined by market supply and demand. This is the
case for agricultural products, industrial consumption goods, and services provided to firms
and households. The quasi-totality of subsidies on staple foods and energy products has been
eliminated except for milk and butane gas, which continue to benefit temporarily from small
subsidies. As for noncompetitive services, in particular public utilities, rate revisions will
gradually lead to a closer covering of economic costs. It is expected that this policy together
with the development of competition through implementing the recently adopted legislation
will contribute to price stability. Enhancing the incentive framework will include a program to
restructure and regularize land titles.



Annex D
Page 10 of 25
3- Reform of public enterprises and sectoral policies
3-1- Reform of public enterprises:
In 1988, public enterprise reform was launched by granting them management
autonomy (Law 88-01), thus eliminating public control. The formerly non-autonomous public
enterprises (EPS) were transformed into autonomous public enterprises (EPE) governed by
market rules. Participation funds were created to manage the equity of these companies. This
system resulted in a more precise measurement of the size of the capital stock of the State, as
well as a more efficient and transparent monitoring of the management of these enterprises.
As a result, it is possible to understand better the internal and external causes of the financial
difficulties encountered by these enterprises.  Financial restructuring measures have been
taken, accompanied by rehabilitation plans. Ownership of the shares of these enterprises will
be transferred to the recently-established holdings.
3-2- Privatization:
A privatization law was promulgated and the institutions envisioned by this law have
been created, but these institutions are not yet operational. In the meantime, the privatization
process has been launched on the basis of previously existing legislation.  A significant
privatization program comprising a considerable number of enterprises (see Attachment 2) has
been put in place and will be completed in the near future. To ensure the success of this first
program with the maximum possible efficiency and transparency, the mechanisms for its
implementation are already operational, including the formation of local and sectoral
privatization committees and a monitoring committee. It will be followed by a second
program of comparable size, which will benefit from the experience acquired during the initial
phase and will therefore proceed under more favorable institutional conditions.
Experience from the first program will be useful when the privatization mechanism
envisioned by the law is operational. By maintaining a pace of privatization taking into
account concrete market opportunities, the authorities intend to give the program the best
possible chance of success.
In the context of implementing the privatization law, the State will gradually disengage
from competitive sectors. The sectors concerned are: hotels, tourism, trade and distribution,
textile and foodstuff industries, manufacturing in the areas of mechanical, electrical, and
electronic industries, wood and by-products, paper, chemical industries, plastics, hides and
skins, passenger and freight road transport, insurance, port and airport service activities, all
small and medium industries and small and medium local enterprises, as well as studies and
operations in construction and public works.



Annex D
Page 1 1 of 25
3-3- Financial sector reform:
Financial liberalization in 1994-95 was an important component of the stabilization
program, aimed at developing financial intermediation. Adjustment of the capital stock of
banks, notably through their recapitalization in 1995 based on audited 1993 financial
statements, followed a tightening of prudential regulations at the end of 1994. Liberalization
of the interbank market in 1994 constituted a pivotal element of banking reform. Management
contracts signed by banks aim at strengthening their capital adequacy ratios and require
adherence to prudential regulations.
The development of a money market continued in 1995 with the creation of short-term
public securities related to the auctioning of Treasury bills. The development of a public
securities market, along with active management of public debt, will stimulate the creation of a
true financial market. The development of financial intermediation will also be supported by a
program to improve the payments system.
The elimination in December 1995 of the ceiling on bank margins will stimulate the
role of the banks in mobilizing long-term financial savings. Similarly, strict application of
prudential regulations will enhance the functional efficiency of banks in allocating sound
financing to the economy.
In addition to maintaining bank capital adequacy standards, bringing outstanding bank
overdrafts closer to the regulatory ceiling as well as monitoring inter-enterprise debts will
make the budgetary constraint on public enterprises more explicit, and will reduce the
recurrence of non-performing bank loans. This will also improve the central bank's ability to
conduct monetary policy through interventions in the flow of funds. In order to increase the
efficiency of bank intermediation through private participation in the banking system, a
structured approach for opening the capital and/or privatizing the management of one of the
existing public banks will be undertaken. This approach will lead to a pilot project that could
be expanded to the entire public banking system in compliance with current legislation on
privatization.
Overall, the development of financial intermediation will be accompanied by an
external financial liberalization inherent to the convertibility of the dinar. The intermediation
of banks and financial institutions on the foreign market will contribute to the objective of
external competitiveness.
3-4- Housing sector:
Actions and policies related to housing have too often been addressed at a sectoral
level. Past policies suffered from a lack of coherence. Housing was exclusively seen as a
social need while it is first of all an economic asset. A change in policy is necessary to fully
integrate the housing sector into the process of transition to a market economy. New policies



Annex D
Page 12 of 25
are needed to better respond to the demand that will arise from lifting supply constraints. This
will foster access to ownership.
3-4-1- Fostering access to ownership:
To further this objective, incentives will be designed for housing sector operators,
notably in the private sector, related to real estate promotion, construction by individual
owners, up-front housing support to the most vulnerable groups, and up-front support for
renovating sub-standard housing.
These actions will be integrated into a global approach requiring the implementation of
measures related to: (i) adoption of land use planning instruments adapted to the new policy;
(ii) enhancement and expansion of land registration; (iii) incentives for private owners to offer
building plots on the market; (iv) control of plot acquisitions through issuing ownership titles;
(v) access to credit for land promotion; (vi) gradual integration of savings to finance housing,
notably through improved collection; and (vii) technical support to the sector and development
of technical monitoring of construction activities.
3-4-2- Promotion and organization of the rental market:
The limits reached by the current system of housing finance, distribution and
management justify the implementation of a new policy vis-a-vis the creation of a rental
market. This policy includes operational measures already adopted (rent increases) and other
institutional measures to be implemented in the short to medium term by: (i) reviewing
conditions of access to public rental housing and the requirement of financial participation by
beneficiaries in the form of a deposit; (ii) gradually moving toward market rates accompanied
by a need-based program of rent assistance; (iii) promoting the privatization of public rental
housing; (iv) gradually reorganizing the management of residual public rental housing by
creating the profession of property administrator and by fostering greater accountability by
renters for maintenance; (v) adopting incentive measures to encourage private investment in
the rental real estate sector (access to land, access to credit); and (vi) rebalancing the relation
between owners and renters (through market determination of rent, and assurance that the
property will be vacated at the end of a lease).
The objective for the sector is to create a true real estate market. The achievement of
this objective implies major institutional reforms touching all participants in the housing
market.
3-4-3- Public Housing:
Public housing reform will focus on the two major public housing developers. The
agency that builds housing for sale should be rapidly privatized in order to eliminate
differences between public developers and those of the private sector with respect to
advantages conceded (including access to land and access to credit). The public developers



Annex D
Page 13 of 25
that build rental housing will gradually be divested from managing and maintaining the
housing stock; specialized private agents, whose development will be fostered, will take over
these responsibilities.
3-4-4- Reform of the housing finance system:
Measures developed hereafter should be complemented by institutional reform of
housing finance which focuses on the creation of a housing bank and of a financing fund for
public rental housing. Furthermore. and in order to encourage participation of commercial
banks in housing finance, mortgage refinancing and mortgage guarantee companies will also
need to be created. The actions described above will aim at integrating the housing sector into
the process of transition towards a market economy; the State is renouncing its current role of
housing producer and landlord.
3-5- Agriculture:
Reforms launched in the agricultural sector aim at increasing agricultural production
and as a result at improving food security. They are being implemented in accordance with
the requirements of building a market economy. These reforms address pricing policies,
budgetary measures, organization of agricultural services, agricultural land status, organization
of the agricultural profession, adaptation of the administration and restructuring of public
enterprises.  Recent reforms consisted of encouraging the development of a responsible
agricultural policy by divesting the State from its past management role and by fostering
initiatives that contribute to improved efficiency in order to stimulate sound and sustainable
growth.
It is in this context that State support for agricultural inputs was totally eliminated in
1994. Guaranteed minimum prices have also been eliminated for most crops. Only wheat
prices are still guaranteed, because of the vulnerable economic status of many wheat
producers. With regard to taxation, the approach has been to eliminate all VAT and customs
duties exemptions on goods and services for the agricultural sector and by submitting
production activities to the income tax system.
The budgetary adjustments that took place have also reversed past investment policies.
Subsidies for productive investments are limited and are made in the context of a transparent,
targeted incentive framework, ensuring maximum efficiency. Interest rate subsidies target in
particular priority activities through seasonal credits. Similarly the financing system, which
represents an important constraint to credit access, is being restructured through the creation
of a mutual financial institution for agriculture.
The irrigation sector will undergo a reorientation to strengthen ongoing adjustments
regarding water pricing. The aim is to improve the efficiency of existing investments and
foster maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.



Annex D
Page 14 of 25
With regard to agricultural services, the recent fundamental external trade reforms have
liberalized the supply activities that had been public enterprises monopolies. This has notably
fostered the emergence of private operators in the import and distribution of intermediary
consumption products (fertilizers, phytosanitary products, veterinary products, seeds and
animal breeding).
Concerning land tenure, actions to dissolve socialist agricultural state farms have
already been dissolved are and actions of ongoing in order to protect farmers exploiting land
belonging to the State, on the one hand, and allow full restitution of nationalized land or land
controlled by the State, on the other hand.  It is with this in mind that the legislation
concerning land tenure was revised in 1995 and that the law governing state farms operation is
being revised in order to establish the means for privatizing them and for developing a land
market.
The adaptation of agricultural administration to the new economic environment is being
addressed through a program aimed at improving its analysis and decision making capacities.
Finally, restructuring of public enterprises in the agricultural sector is starting
gradually by fostering private initiative to promote a market for the production and distribution
of goods and services. The implementation of the partial or total privatization program of
agricultural public enterprises is taking place in the context of the Government's privatization
program. The future role of ONAPSA, the major public enterprise operating in the area of
import and distribution of seeds, fertilizers, phytosanitary and veterinary products, is currently
under review in this context.  The gradual disengagement of the State, without market
disruption, will first be envisaged through greater management responsibility for the enterprise
by representatives of the agricultural sector and thereafter through the transfer of equity to
professional cooperative organizations that would privatize the enterprise.
4- Social Safety Net
4-1- Current system to protect the most vulnerable groups:
In 1992, the authorities reformed the pricing system by reducing budgetary subsidies
for food staples. The system of support through prices proved to be very expensive because it
was not targeted. Three types of compensation schemes were adopted between February 1992
and September 1994: (i) indemnity for a sole wage earner of 500 dinars paid to a married
person whose salary was less than 7000 dinars and whose spouse was without income; (ii)
indemnity to groups without income, in the amount of 120 dinars per month and per
dependent; and (iii) supplementary family allocation of 60 dinars per month and per child.
This system alleviated the impact of price increases but proved to be inefficient in its
targeting. In the third quarter of 1994 it was replaced by a new mechanism aimed at
improving the targeting to the truly needy. This new mechanism, currently in place, consists
of: (i) a lump-sum solidarity allowance (AFS) for the elderly (over 60 years) without revenue



Annex D
Page 15 of 25
and for the handicapped who are not capable of working, in an amount of 600 dinars per
dependent, up to three dependents; and (ii) a payment for public service activities (IAIG) of a
maximum of 2100 dinars per month, paid to those who participate in these activities, pro rated
by the number of days worked.
In parallel to the mechanism to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, an
unemployment insurance system was established in July 1994 for workers who lose their jobs
for economic reasons. The beneficiaries of unemployment insurance receive a payment
through an unemployment insurance fund, financed by contributions from workers and
employers as well as entry fees paid by the enterprises concerned.
4-2- Improvements of the system:
Although the targeting of the most vulnerable groups has been improved thanks to its
new configuration, the current system still has distortions that must be addressed. Concerning
the lump-sum solidarity allowance (AFS), the fact that the persons affected are truly poor and
thus need to receive their payments on time to satisfy basic needs will need to be taken into
account. Quarterly payments are inappropriate, especially if the allocation is paid at the end of
the quarter. A formula based on payments made at the beginning of the period could eliminate
this inefficiency as a less-costly alternative to more frequent payments.  Furthermore,
possibilities for reducing the payment frequency are under consideration.
To enhance the self targeting of the public service activities (IAIG), incentives that
encourage participation by the poor, and discourage participation of the non-poor will be
reinforced through the following measures: (i) strengthening the enforcement of working time
requirements (in terms of a full eight-hour working day); (ii) a better selection of activities for
IAIG, by introducing simple and transparent guidelines; (iii) analyzing the possible
modification of the payment schedules (day rate or piece rate) based on the work site of IAIG
activities while taking into account their location and constraints; and (iv) focusing the location
of work sites in areas that are predominantly poor.
In order to complete the current system, a new program of public works is currently
under consideration which would be more cost-effective and would provide more consistent
revenue to its beneficiaries.
As in the case of the system to protect the most vulnerable groups, the system of
unemployment insurance will be evaluated, based on data such as the number of beneficiaries
already admitted, the level of benefits, the level of revenues (entry fees and monthly payroll
contributions), administrative costs and projected costs, etc., in order to take the measures
needed to improve its efficiency and financial viability. These improvements will focus on the
rules of financing the system. In particular, control mechanisms will be implemented in order
to monitor regularly the fund revenues (payroll contributions and entry fees) and expenditures
(benefit outlays and other uses of funds). The system must generate sufficient reserves to be
financially viable. In this context, an investment strategy for fund resources must ensure a



Annex D
Page 16 of 25
maximum return on investment, as well as a reserve margin that ensures adequate resources
and financial viability of the fund.
4-3- Knowledge of the current situation:
The design and implementation of a social safety net, essential to alleviate the impact of
adjustment measures on the most vulnerable groups of the population, requires a clear
understanding of the economic and social characteristics of the population as well as a precise
definition of poverty. A living standards survey of the population -- providing demographic
data, sanitary and housing conditions, access to public utilities, and information on
employment and income -- has just been completed in the field by the National Statistical
Office. The preliminary results are already available and will serve as the basis of a poverty
study.  This study, which will focus on revenues and living conditions of the poorest
households, will be used to refine the targeting of households eligible to benefit from the
social safety net. In order to improve the targeting of assistance programs, and based on the
results of the 1995 Living Standards Measurement Survey, a set of indicators on the socio-
economic characteristics of the poor will be developed.
5- System of Indicators
To help assess progress of the reform program, the authorities have established a list of
quantitative indicators.   The authorities will communicate to the Bank all necessary
information to compute these indicators before the evaluation missions of the Structural
Adjustment Loan, and will review together with the Bank the evolution of these indicators
during the course of these missions. The indicators are listed in Attachment 1.
6- Financing of the program
Algeria's program of economic reforms requires significant multilateral and bilateral
support. A three year IMF EFF program covering program years 1994/95 to 1997/98 is
ongoing. Debt rescheduling agreements have been concluded with the Paris and London
Clubs. The program also receives support from the European Union. Furthermore, it benefits
from the support of the African Development Bank and the Arab Monetary Fund. Algeria's
bilateral partners have provided and continue to provide significant and sustained assistance to
the ongoing reform program.
The World Bank has a specific role to play in technical assistance and financing of the
reforms. The Algerian authorities wish to see the Bank's support of the current reform
program intensify and accelerate, particularly in the area of job creation and in the
development of the housing and agriculture sectors. During this transition phase, the Algerian
authorities also expect the IFC to play a more dynamic and catalytic role in the development of
the private sector.



Annex D
Page 17 of 25
ATTACHMENT 1
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
INDICATORS
Macro-economic framework
* GDP growth (annual)
* industrial production indices (quarterly)
* imports (six months)
* exports (six months)
* consumer price index (monthly)
* re-discount rate (monthly)
* interest rates and dinar amounts from credit auctioning sessions (monthly)
* average interbank market rates (monthly)
* foreign exchange reserves (monthly)
* foreign exchange rates (monthly)
* money supply (monthly)
* credit to the economy (quarterly):
credit to public enterprises;
credit to the 23 large, previously non-autonomous public enterprises;
credit to the 10 food product import agencies.
Reform of public expenditures
* Treasury balance (quarterly)
* expenditures of the Restructuring Fund (quarterly)



Annex D
Page 18 of 25
* capital and current expenditures, overall and by sector (those sectors covered by the Public
Expenditure Review) (quarterly)
Private sector development and public enterprise reform
* projected sectoral private value added (quarterly for industry, annually for the other
sectors)
* number of enterprises newly created (six months)
* import-weighted average tariff rate (six months)
* nominal and effective protection rates (annual)
D information on privatized enterprises or units of enterprises (name of enterprise or unit,
personnel figures, value added, type of activity) (six months)
* when the monitoring system is operational, information on inter-enterprise indebtedness of
public enterprises (in accordance with agreed mechanism), including overall amount of
inter-enterprise debt (quarterly)
Financial sector reform
* borrowing and lending rates charged by banks (quarterly)
* share of bank credit in the financing of the economy (quarterly)
* capital ratio to banks' liabilities (annual)
Strengthening of social safety net system
* number of beneficiaries of early retirement and unemployment insurance programs (six
months)
* number of beneficiaries of the social safety net: AFS and PAIG (six months)



ttachment 2                                Algeria Structural Adjustment Program--Proposed Policy Matrix
Component                    Measures taken before May 1,                 Measures to be taken before              Measures to be taken before the
1995                        presentation of the SAL to the              relase of the Second Tranche
Board
Macroeconomic Framework                                                         - Maintenance of a macroeconomic              Maintenance of a macroeconomic
framework in accordance with the EFF.      framework in accordance with the EFF.
Foreign Exchange and        - Dinar convertibility achieved for most
Trade Regime                trade-related transactions; elimination of
remaining professional criteria requirements
for importers.
Budgetary Policy            - Reduction of budget deficit from 8.9    - Submission to the Bank of a govemment     * Submission to the Bank of a govemment
percent of GDP in 1993 to 4.4 percent in  investment program and plan for recurrent   investment program and a program of
1994.                                     govemment expenditures for 1996 in the      recurrent govemment expenditures in the
health, education, transport, and housing  context of the 1997 budget including the
sectors and in accordance with the Public  measures agreed jointly and satisfying to
Expenditure Review (PER). [Note: major     both parties, in the framework of the PER.
measures taken include: zero net recruitment
in education; an increase of 150 percent in the   - Adoption and implementation of
budget for teacher training and retraining; 75    institutional measures, satisfactory to both
percent increase in pharmaceutical         parties, designed to improve the functioning
expenditures; 130 percent increase in      of the system of public finance, in the
preventative medicine expenditures; launching   framework of the PER.
of pilot operations for subcontracting with
private sector for food and cleaning services
in the health sector; shelving construction of
Algiers metro; a reallocation of part of
planned infrastructure investments to
housing.]
- Stabilization of recruitment for the civil  * Presentation to the Bank of the program of
service, in accordance with the EFF.        personnel expenditures for the civil service
proposed for the 1997 budget, comprising the
measures agreed jointly and satisfying to
both parties in the context of the PER.             UQ
Xi



Component                     Measures tsken before May 1,                  Measures to be taken before                Measures to be taken before the
1995                         presentation of the SAL to the               release of the Second Tranche
Board
Macroeconomic Framework
(continued)
Budgetarv Policy             - Agreement on the timetable for the closure    - Progress toward the closure of the     - Presentation to the Bank of a programn for
(continued)                  of the Restructuring Fund (Appendix B,      Restructuring Fund in accordance with agreed   the improvement of the efficiency of the civil
Anncx 1, ERL Letter of Development          timetable. [Note: three measures in the      service and the implementation of a first set
Policy).                                    matrix -- the above measure, the passage of  of measures agreed jointly.
the remaining large public enterprises to
autonomy (see Public Enterprise Reform), and   * Progress toward the closure of
constraints on banks to maintain prudential  Restructuring Fund in accordance with
ratios (see Financial Sector) impose hard    agreed timetable.
budget constraints on public enterprises.]
Private Sector Support and Reform
of Public Enterprises
Privatization                - Drafting of privatization law, in         - Promulgation of privatization law.
consultation with the Bank (ERL).
- Promulgation the implementing texts, as    - Joint review of the privatization process
agreed and in consultation with the Bank;    based on these implementing texts and their
creation of the institutions foreseen in the law    improvement, if necessary.
for the management of the privatization
process.
- Enactment of a pilot privatization program,   - Implement an initial privatization program,  - Completion of initial program of
supported under the ERL, and liquidation of   including bringing 103 communal-level public   privatization (including concessions).
88 local public enterprises.                enterprises to the point of sale, offering 35
communal activities for private sector       - Establishment of a second privatization
operation by concession, bringing to the point   program.
of sale (selling the units, opening of capital or
operation by the private sector through      * Bring to the point of sale (sale of the
management contract) 50 units of national    whole enterprise, sale of units of enterprises,
public enterprises (EPEs), privatization of the    opening of capital), operation by the private
management of two govemment-owned            sector through concession or management
hotels, and dissolution of 84 local public   contracting arrangements, or dissolution a             CD
enterprises (EPLs).                          part, accepted by both parties, of this second
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   program .
LN')



Componet                     Measures tken before May 1,                 Measures to be taken before             Measures to be taken before the
1995                        presentation of the SAL to tde             release of the Second Tracbe
Board
Private Sector Support and Reform
of Public Enterprises (continued)
Apriculture Sector         - State lands under socialist state farms  - Presentation to the Bank of the
Reform                     distributed to individual and collective farms   Govemment's agriculture sector policy,
with usufruct rights but without property  notably conceming agricultural land and the
rights.                                   privatization of public enterprises in the
sector.
- Promulgation of the legislation authorizing  * Adoption by the Council of Govemment of
the restitution of agriculture land donated to  a draft law defining the modes of
the State (Law no. 95-25).                 privatization of state-owned agricultural land.
Public Enterprise Reform    - Passage to autonomy of 5 large previously   -Rule definitively on the future (immediate
non-autonomous public enterprises.        passage to autonomy, redeployment, or
dissolution) of the remaining large non-
autonomous public enterprises in conformity
with the framework set out in the ERL.
- The creation of the institutions necessary for   - Management of the holding companies in
the implementation of the law creating     conformity with the objectives given in the
holding companies to manage public         Letter of Development Policy.
enterprises, notably:
- promulgatation of the bylaws of the
holdings;
- establishment of the technical support unit
for the CNPE;
in conformity with the objectives set out in
the Letter of Development Policy.
- Design in consultation with the Bank a   - Regular monitoring of the inter-enterprise
system to monitor the inter-enterprise debts of   debts of public enterprises.
public enterprises.
CD
Incentive Framework        - Promulgation of a competition law.       - Drafting of the implementing regulations, in
consultation with the Bank, and publication of                                                 O   b
all of these texts.                                                                            e   '



Componet                     Measue  taken before May 1,                Meaures to be tWen before                Measures to be taken before the
1995                       presentation of the SAL to the              release of the Second Trancbe
Board
Private Sector Support and Reform
of Public Enterriaes (continued)
Incentive Framework        - Promulgation of the new investment code.    - Carry out a general program to clarify and  - Review of progress of program to clarify l
(continued)                                                          regularize property titles.                 and regularize property titles for industrial
- Installation of the Agency for the                                                 and commercial enterprises and the adoption,
Promotion and Support of Investment       - Enactment of legal texts permitting lease  if needed, of measures jointly agreed to
financing of capital equipment.           improve this program.
- Opening of a one-stop information window
for potential investors.                  - Promulgation of a decree permitting
factoring.
Housing Reform             - Freeing of construction prices for social  - Adoption by the Govemment and
housing.                                  presentation to the Bank of a new national
housing strategy.
- 10 percent increase in subsidized rents.
- Implementation of measures designed to   - Evaluation of the private sector share in the
- Adoption of a plan to restructure CNEP,  increase the participation of the private sector   execution of the 1995 public housing
the national housing finance institution.  in the execution of the 1995 public housing  program and an increase in private sector
program.                                   share of the 1996 program.
- Adoption by the Govemment and            - Execution of the 1996 public housing
presentation to the Bank of a financial plan  program following the financing plan and
and a calendar for the 1996 public housing  calendar agreed with the Bank.
program.
- Presentation to the Bank of a financial plan
and a calendar for the 1997 public housing
program.
Financial Sector           - Replacement of interest rate ceilings on  - Elimination of the ceiling on bank margins.
bank loans by a maximum 5 percent margin.
- Determination of bank capital requirements
to meet minimum capital thresholds, on the
basis of end-1993 audits, in consultation with
the Bank.                                                                                      C
- Recapitalization of the five public banks and   - Maintenance by the public banks of
payment of the capital contributions as    acceptable capital adequacy ratios.
foreseen in the 1995 govemment budget.



Component                    Measures taken before May 1,               Measures to be taken before              Measures to be taken before the
1995                       presentation of the SAL to the              relase of the Second Tra bhe
Board
Private Sector Support and Reform
of Public Enterprises (continued)
Financial Sector           - Adoption of a model management contract   - Signature and implementation of
(continued)                between the Ministry of Finance and       management contracts for the five public
managers of publicly-owned banks, holding    banks.
the managers responsible for respecting
capital adequacy requirements.            - Completion of study and presentation to the    - Adoption, in consultation with the Bank,
Bank of a draft proposal for private share  and launching of jointly agreed program for
- Redesign of the structure of new issues of    ownership and/or private management of at  the opening of the capital and/or the private
government securities, in conformity with  least one of the five existing public banks.  management of at least one of the five
the principles agreed in the context of the                                          existing private banks.
Capital Market Study.
- Adoption and introduction of instructions  - Adoption and introduction, in consultation
- Adoptior and introduction of accounting  concerning open foreign exchange positions  with the Bank, of accounting regulations and
and valuation standards for commercial bank   of comrnercial banks and other financial  evaluation norms for transactions in financial
transactions in foreign exchange.         institutions.                              securities.
- Adoption, in consultation with the Bank, of    - Establishment of an operational system for
- Adoption of the regulations and procedures   instructions concerning the issuance and the  the auction of Treasury bills and bonds;
for the auctioning of new Treasury bills and    negotiation of the new Treasury securities  establishment of the requirements for
bonds.                                                                               Treasury security dealers; to support the
development of a secondary market,
establishment of payment mechanisms for
transactions in Treasury securities.
- Submission of a summary report on the    - Introduction of the plan to improve the
action program to upgrade the bank check   performance of the bank check clearing and
clearing and fund transfer system, including  fund transfer system, attainment of pre-
the relevant data.                         established objectives.
- Establishment of quantitative targets for the    * Attainment of the pre-established objective
reduction in commercial bank overdrafts   for the reduction of overdrafts granted to the
granted to the economy.                    economy.                                            m
O k



Component                    Measures take  before May 1,                 Measures to be taken before              Measures to be taken before the
1995                        presentatio  of the SAL to the              relase of the Second Trabce
Bo4rd
Private Sector Support and Reform
of Public Enternprcs (contibued)
FaIsa Sector
(contined)                                                             - Adoption of amendments to the Stock
Market Law: (I) authorizing an over-the-
counter secondary market in Treasury
securities; (2) authorizing stock exchange
members to trade in other security markets;
(3) relieving stock exchange members of the
responsibility to account for the origin of their
client's funds.
- Putting into place of the COSOB (Exch.    - Execution of the planned work program.
Comm.) and establishment of its work
program, notably staff training, allocation of
staff functions, and drafting of regulations for
public offerings, operations of investment
funds, and licensing of stock brokers.
Soeial Safety Net                    - Launching of new social safety net       - Implementation of new social safety net
measures -job loss insurance, public works   measures.
program (PAIG), and cash assistance for
those not able to work (AFS).             - Based on the results of joint studies with the   * Implementation of measures designed to
Bank, adoption of measures necessary to    strengthen the three programs.
strengthen the three programs.
- Presentation to the Bank of a draft executive   - Step-by-step implementation, in
decree creating and establishing the bylaws of   consultation with the Bank, of an
a social development agency.                autonomous social development agency.
- Launch LSMS, in collaboration with the  - Agreement conceming the Bank's analytical   * Based on the results of the LSMS and/or
Bank.                                     use of the LSMS data, based on terns and    the Poverty Assessment, and, in consultation
conditions established in advance with ONS,    with the Bank, development and adoption of
the national statistical office.            a program to improve the social protection
system for the poorest groups
* Principal measures.                                                                                                                                                                   9  X



Annex D
Page 25 of 25
ATTACHMENT 3
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
RESTRUCTURING FUND
(Closing schedule)
In accordance to the previously established approach concerning the Restructuring Fund, its
closing schedule will be pursued. For the future, the following actions will be taken as
initially agreed in the context of the ERL:
(i) For the differential of commercial bank charges on external borrowing contracted
for the account of the State before April 1990: transfer from the Restructuring
Fund at the end of 1996; after that date, these expenditures will be treated
according to the same procedures as public debt.
(ii) For repayments of restructuring bonds (bons de rachat):  transfer from the
Restructuring Fund as of October 1, 1996; after that date, these obligations will
be treated according to the same procedures as public debt. Advance repayments
to the banks by the Treasury will be halted after April 1, 1997. The amount of
these advance repayments will not exceed two-thirds of the total amount
allocated to repay the public debt.



le



bRD 21 836
036'
a~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~=f. Abbe                      ..
-    \   _ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J   ~~~~~~~~~ ; t                              O          u          m ~~~~~~~~~~~ El    Aos      t         36-
T. F.~        T e--e
Tzmsuchent ~   T N.                                                    T. Lgh                                                   'r. Ell  0 SIo./ 
12-                      9         e                                        r 9*  3'                                 -                - -                                         9                        12 
To B,,  T.n
33'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
Th.3*-   ,1- ---
denoination  and n-y                                                                       h 
other info-nt-o show-om
onthis  ..p,  do  not                                                                                                                   El C-u
, rply  o     port ` of                                                                                                                                                                             33Brk
naY jodgrenton th  gn
t ny t.r, o0'
or sy sdorsnret
ornrpnr   f s-o
30'
30-
F , , ,/W, ,,, | -27i                                                                                                                                                                             27'
T. Et1                                                                            . A..  Ad-e
SsF Inw A aw   ,   u  }    ~~~~~~~~~~ /                   2 )             r.In
24'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
-2C             ~ALGERIA
ADMINISTRATION
o  Wilaya Capitals                                                                                                                                                                     2
*     National Capial                                                                                                    -Ordghs...et,                                            5"
2t'  -orld 6Major Highr oys                                                                                                                                          ) 
Wilaya Boundaries                                                                                                                             .2l
Interntoional Boundclaies
0    50   100   I50  200   250  300  350  4?0
KILOMETEF S
1'          6'                                                          0' 33                                                       6                                                           102
DECEMBER199%









iL P., ,A j N u
J i,A FT
\ oN h 11l)E:N'TIAL
Report No:  P--    6855  AL
Tvpe: PR



