Report No. PIC3006
Project Name                   Algeria-Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Multi-Sector
Project ID                     DZPA36076
Borrower                       Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria
Principal Responsible          Agency  National Planning Council (CNP)
Contact: National Planning Council
(CNP)
Tel: 011.213.2.92.53.23
Fax: 011.213.2.79.94.72
Date PID Prepared              December 1995
Project Appraisal Date         January 1996
Projected Board Date           March 1996
Country Background
1.   After independence in 1962, Algeria followed a central planning
model of growth characterized by heavy industrialization and extensive
social infrastructure development. The development program relied
heavily on hydrocarbon revenues. During this period, Algeria achieved
important social progress. Illiteracy was reduced, life expectancy
increased, and primary school enrolent reached close to 100 percent. By
the end of the 1970s, however, there were clear signs that the model
followed had resulted in an inefficient allocation of resources and
presented poor growth prospects. Productivity was low in spite of
investment/output ratios from 40 to more than 50 percent, on a par with
high-growth East Asian countries.
2.   The sharp fall in oil prices in 1986 triggered a crisis with
hydrocarbon exports falling from US$12.7 billion in 1985 to an average
of US$7.7 billion in 1986-88. Realizing that the situation was
unsustainable, the Algerian Government took initial steps to liberalize
the system, both on the political and the economic front. A wide number
of policy measures were undertaken, ranging from the dismantling of
state farms to the removal of barriers to foreign investment,
increasing the private sector's access to credit and foreign exchange,
and the abolishing of state import monopolies. In addition, most public
enterprises (PEs) became autonomous, collective bargaining was
decentralized, and the central bank was given much greater autonomy in
monetary policy. The IMF and the World Bank actively supported these
reforms. The Bank's support included two adjustment operations, an
Economic Reform Support Loan approved in 1989 and an Economic and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan approved in 1991.
3.   The period 1992-1993 was marked by increasing civil strife and some
slowdown in economic adjustment. Import controls were implemented in
order to ration foreign exchange and to generate resources to cope with



the service of the external debt; the debt service ratio reached 73
percent in 1993. However, arrears began to appear despite these efforts
and despite the government's attempt to restructure debt on a bilateral
basis with key creditors. Access to foreign credit became more and more
difficult. Planned structural reform measures were delayed. Subsidies
and wage expenditures soared, cuinating in a fiscal deficit of 8.7
percent of GDP in 1993. In spite of these outlays, private consumption
per capita fell by 4 percent and per capita output dropped another 5
percent. Early in 1994, the authorities adopted a strong new adjustment
program. It received the support of the IMF in the form of a Stand-by
agreement, followed early in 1995 by an EFF. The World Bank's initial
support of the renewed adjustment effort was provided under the January
1995 Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan (ERL).
Major Elements of the Adjustment Program
4.    The Algerian authorities' adjustment program to be supported by
the SAL has one key aim: to move quickly to transform the Algerian
economy into one that is market-based, efficient, and productive.
Efficiency will be improved through public enterprise reform, including
a large-scale program of privatization of small enterprises, and the
strengthening of the existing private sector. These measures will go in
parallel with measures designed to improve the social safety net during
transition.
5.   Privatization.   Privatization is the officially stated policy of
the Algerian government for public sector activities in competitive
sectors and probably the only effective means of increasing the
efficiency of the Algerian economy. However, in the present security
situation, the private market for large public enterprises is likely to
be limited. The authorities' strategy in these circumstances for the
large public enterprises is the following: (i) impose hard budget
constraints and impose a new management system to prepare enterprises
for eventual privatization; (ii) identify smaller units of these
enterprises that can be sold off under current demand conditions -- or
let the enterprises themselves do this as a way of raising funds; (iii)
seek private management or minority equity participation for some units;
and (iv) spin off service activities of the largest public enterprises
to employees. At the same time, the SAL would support a large-scale
program of privatization of small-scale enterprises, concentrating on
activities and sectors where there is likely to be effective demand for
the resources to be privatized, notably small-scale industry, commerce,
services, construction, and transport.
6.   Agricultural Land Tenure.   The Algerian Government has announced
its intention to sell off state-owned arable land and has prepared
legislation to this end. The land in question was converted from state
farms to small collective farms or to small individual farms with
usufruct rights at the beginning of the adjustment program in 1987.
However, some of the land went unexploited, partly because of a lack of
complementary resources; and collective operations did not work and were
de facto divided into family farms. There is now consensus within the
government that farmers must own their land. The implementation of this
program could start relatively soon, but its fulfilent is likely to take
time, because contentious issues concerning prior property rights must
- 2-



be resolved and because land registration and the development of other
land market institutions must take place.
7.   Public Enterprise Reform.   The strategy of the Algerian authorities
is to limit PEs' access to public resources, through the budget or
through bad debts to the banking system made good through budget
appropriations. Recent reforms in the banking system described below
and supported under the ERL effectively block access of loss-making
enterprises to bank credit. As outlined in the ERL program, the last
remaining eighteen large non-autonomous public enterprises would be
passed to autonomy, blocking routine access to Treasury financing and
guarantees. Five large enterprises have already been made autonomous
and nine others would be made autonomous before presentation of the SAL
to the Board.
8.   Incentive Framework   The Algerian authorities will support the
private sector indirectly, through continued improvements in the overall
framework for private sector activities, and directly, through the
enhancement of opportunities for the private sector to carry out
activities previously in the public domain. Other than improving the
overall framework for private sector activity and providing
opportunities for the private sector to compete for government
concessions and public works, experience in many countries shows that it
is difficult to develop specific government interventions in favor of
the private sector that actually work. This observation is especially
relevant for small and medium enterprises, which in Algeria describes
the entire private sector. However, drawing on the Private Sector
Assessment (PSA) carried out during the last 12 months, the authorities
have developed a program that tries to balance measures to improve the
general framework for private sector activity with a few major specific
interventions.
9.   Reform of the Financial Sector.   The strategy for the financial
sector is consistent with that developed with the Algerian authorities
under the ERL. As foreseen in the ERL, the next phase of financial
sector reform must include measures to increase competition.
Restructuring of existing banks would go on as planned under the ERL.
The authorities would make the capital infusions necessary for them to
meet the agreed interim capital-asset ratio of four percent and
implement management contracts with the five banks. Under the
management contracts, the managers have the responsibility to respect
the capital adequacy guidelines. Improvements in the supervision and
regulation capabilities of the central bank would also continue under
the proposed SAL. Lastly, measures to introduce new markets would be
implemented, concentrating on the government securities market.
The Proposed Loan
Objectives and Description
10. The loan supports an adjustment program that is moving Algeria
closer to its goal of an open, market-based economy in the context of
growth and increased employment. This proposal has been prepared in
response to a government request, going back to early 1994, for support
for its intensified adjustment efforts. The proposed SAL would be a
- 3 -



continuation of the support provided under the ERL, approved by the
Board in January 1995, recognizing the successful policy performance of
the Algerian authorities under that loan, and the vital program of
medium-term structural adjustment that they have already launched.
11. The key components of the program to be supported by the SAL
include the following:
(i)     macroeconomic stabilization and the rationalization of
public expenditures. In the context of the IMF EFF and
in line with the recommendations of the Bank's recent
Public Expenditure Review, conducted jointly with a team
from the Algerian Government, the authorities will
reallocate public expenditures toward primary health
care, recurrent non-wage expenditures in education, road
transport, and housing and will strictly limit the growth
of the public sector wage bill;
(ii)     support for public enterprise reform and private sector
development. The program to be supported also includes
a major start at the privatization of public enterprises,
notably small and medium scale enterprises in transport,
construction and retail trade; and
(iii)     support for the already successfully implemented new
social protection system. This system includes targeted
support for the elderly and disabled, self-targeted
support for the able-bodied poor through a public works
program, and an unemployment insurance scheme for those
laid off from their current jobs for economic reasons.
Under the SAL, the authorities would continue these
programs and improve them, based on recommendations
arising from a recent Bank-supported assessment.
Project Cost and Financing
12. The proposed Bank loan is tentatively placed at US$300 million,
with possible cofinancing from the European Union (EU), Japan, Italy and
the African Development Bank.
Project Implementation
13. The Borrower would be the Government of the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The
National Planning Council would be the lead Project Implementation
Agency for the management of the Loan. An inter-ministerial working
group would be in charge of coordinating the monitoring of the program.
The Loan would be made available for disbursement in two tranches of
US$150 million each, the first on effectiveness, and the second after
the fulfilent of a limited number of policy conditions. It is expected
that the second tranche would be available for disbursement 12 months
after effectiveness.
Program Objective Category
-4-



14. While the exact impact on poverty of the Algerian program to be
supported under the SAL in Algeria is difficult to quantify, its overall
qualitative impact would be positive. The Algerian authorities have
already put in place a functioning social safety net designed to limit
the impact on the poor of adjustment (notably as a result of the
elimination of food subsidies). Under the SAL, the Algerian authorities
would further improve the design and management of this safety net, in
consultation with the Bank. In addition, the program is designed to
provide information to improve the targeting of future social
assistance.
Environmental Assessment
15. The project is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies
and will follow accepted Bank procedures concerning the environment.
The project has been given a C rating.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



