Page  1
 Conformed Copy
LOAN NUMBER 4005 AL
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and the
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 3, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4005 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT dated May 3, 1996, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank):
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 2, 1996 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read: 
Page  2
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (c)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement."
 
     (d)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods 
produced in such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
     (e)  The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (f)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.";
     (g)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan"; and
     (h)  Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Deposit Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement;
     (b)  "Banque d'Algerie" means the Borrower's central bank, operating pursuant to 
the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
     (c)  "Public Enterprise" means an enterprise or entity with juridical personality 
and independent patrimony, a majority or all of the outstanding voting stock, or other 
proprietary interest, of which is owned, or effectively controlled, by the Borrower, 
by an agency thereof or by a local authority thereof, and this term shall include a 
division of a Public Enterprise, a public service activity and commercial activity 
undertaken by the Borrower or a local authority thereof;
     (d)  "Part of the Second Privatization Program" means a part, agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, of the Borrower's second privatization program, consisting 
of Public Enterprises that shall: (a) be brought to the point-of-sale; (b) have their 
respective services offered to be transferred, under concession arrangements, to 
private juridical or natural persons; (c) be legally dissolved; or (d) have the 
respective powers and prerogatives relevant to the management thereof
offered to be transferred, under management contracting arrangements, to private 
Page  3
juridical or natural persons;
     (e)  "Restructuring Fund" means the Borrower's fund created pursuant to Section 
143 of the Budget Law for Fiscal Year 1991 of the Borrower, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;
     (f)  "State-Owned Commercial Banks" means Credit Populaire d'Algrie, Banque de 
l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural, Banque Extrieure d'Algrie, Banque Nationale 
d'Algerie and Banque de Dveloppement Local;
     (g)  "PAIG" means Programme d'Activits d'Intert General, the Borrower's public 
interest program which targets members of the population who are able-bodied and with 
no income, established pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 94-08 of the Borrower, dated 
May 26, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (h)  "AFS" means Allocation Forfaitaire de Solidarit, the Borrower's cash 
transfer program which targets members of the population with no income who are either 
over sixty (60) years of age or handicapped, established pursuant to Legislative 
Decree No. 94-08 of the Borrower, dated May 26, 1994, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; 
     (i)  "Unemployment Insurance" means the Borrower's scheme designed to indemnify 
employees whose employment shall have been terminated for economic reasons established 
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 94-11, dated May 26, 1994, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
     (j)  "LSMS" means the Living Standard Measurement Survey, a survey carried out by 
the Borrower in 1995; and
     (k)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on January 1 
and ending on December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to three hundred million dollars 
($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program.
     (b)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in Banque d'Algerie, 
five (5) deposit accounts in dollars, pounds sterling, French francs, Japanese yen and 
deutch mark on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Each withdrawal from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account denominated in 
the currency in which such withdrawal is requested. 
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into one or more Deposit 
Accounts an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
     (d)  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent 
of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions 
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal 
to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Page  5
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Accounts audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Immeuble Maurtania
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
          Cable address:             Telex:
               FINPLAN               67073
               Algiers
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  6
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                    DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                    By /s/ Amine Khene
Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Rene Costa
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group          Sub-group          Description of Items
     112               -               Alcoholic beverages
     121               -               Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                       refuse
     122               -               Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                       or not containing tobacco
                                       substitutes)
     525               -               Radioactive and associated
                                       materials
     667               -               Pearls, precious and semi-
                                       precious stones, unworked or
                                       worked
Page  7
     718            718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                       thereof; fuel elements
                                       (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                       for nuclear reactors
     728.43            -               Tobacco processing machinery
     897            897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                       platinum group metals (except
                                       watches and watch cases) and
                                       goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                       wares (including set gems)
     971               -               Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                       gold ores and concentrates)
4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a
party); and
6.   in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
                        (expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 2001
     through April 1, 2013                    
12,500,000
 
__________________
Page  8
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below.
Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable
                              to the Loan on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                    1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
A.   Macroeconomic Framework
     Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic framework satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Budgetary Policy
1.   (a) Submission to the Bank, of two (2) programs, prepared in relation to the 
Borrower's budget law for Fiscal Year 1997, covering (i) public investments and 
recurrent expenditures in respect of sectors covered by the public expenditure review 
jointly undertaken by the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) personnel expenditures; (b) 
discussion with the Bank of the programs referred to under sub-paragraph (a) above; 
and (c) integration into the Borrower's draft budget law for Fiscal Year 1997, as 
adopted by the Council of Government of the Borrower, of measures agreed in 
consultation with the Bank based on the review referred to under sub-paragraph (a) 
above.
2.   Progress, in accordance with a timetable agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Bank, toward the closure of the Restructuring Fund.
C.   Privatization
     Carrying out Part of the Second Privatization Program.
D.   Agricultural Sector
     Adoption by the Council of Government of the Borrower of draft legislation 
defining the methods of carrying out the privatization of state-owned agricultural 
land; such draft legislation, as adopted, shall have to be deemed acceptable to the 
Bank.
E.   Financial Sector
Page  9
     Reduction, to a level agreed upon with the Bank, of outstanding overdrafts issued 
by the State-Owned Commercial Banks to their customers, other than the Borrower.
F.   Social Safety Net
     Implementation  of measures agreed upon with the Bank which aim at (a) 
strengthening PAIG, AFS and the Unemployment Insurance; and (b) improving, on the 
basis of the findings of LSMS, the targeting of the social protection programs of the 
Borrower which benefit the economically
vulnerable groups of the population.
