25165
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/27/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ZAMBIA                                    Project ID: P003248
Project: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS      Task Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg
(ZANARA)
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 9, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 20, 2002                   IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTH1                               Sector: Health (77%); Central government
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)   administration (11%); Other social services (9%);
Status: Lending                                    Sub-national government administration (3%)
Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P); Civic
engagement; participation and community driven
development (P); Social risk mitigation (S); Gender
(S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
This project is a country program within the context of The Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
for the Africa Region [(MAP2) (APL) (report no. P7497 AFR)], which was approved on February 7,
2002. Reference is made to Section III, Part A. Program Objectives and Part B. Program Description of
the report (no. P7497 AFR). Only key features are highlighted below which are relevant to the Zambia
National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA) Project and to the H1V/AIDS situation in Zambia.
Zambia meets all the eligibility criteria to qualify for participation in the Multi-Country HV/AIDS
Program for Africa, as summarized below:
MAP eligibility for country participation   How eligibility criteria were met by Zambia
Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS.  National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS
This would typically be demonstrated by a coherent  elaborated in consultative manner with broad
national, multi-sectoral strategy and action plan for  involvement and support from all major
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment which has been  stakeholders. The final version of Strategic
developed through a participatory approach using social  Framework was officially presented at the November
assessment techniques. It could also be demonstrated by  21, 2000 Roundtable Discussion on HIV/AIDS.
having a participatory strategic planning process
underway with a road map and timetable.
A high level coordinating body such as a national  The Government has established the National



2
ISDS
HIV/ AIDS council or equivalent has been established to  HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council; the Secretariat is being
oversee the implementation of the strategy and action  established and recruitnent is well advanced. Broad
plan. This body should encompass broad representation  representation of the public and private sector,
of key stakeholders, including persons living with  including religious organizations, non-governmental
HIV/AIDS.                                       organizations (NGOs), the Network of People Living
with HIV/ AIDS, the business society, and other civil
society organizations is assured.
Goverrnment has agreed to use exceptional implementation  The Government has endorsed the proposed (draft)
arrangements to accelerate project implementation, such as  implementation arrangements including the
channeling grant funds for HIV/ AIDS activities directly to  Community Response to HIV/ AIDS (CRAIDS)
communities, and outsourcing financial management and  component that channels funds for HIV/ AIDS
procurement where necessary.                    activities directly to community-based organizations
(CBOs) and NGOs.
Government has agreed to use and fund multiple  The Project supports the implementation of the
implementation agencies, especially community-based  National Strategic Framework on
and NGOs organizations.                         HIV/AIDS/STD/TB which hinges on the
involvement and support of multiple implementing
agencies from all sectors and layers of society.
(a) Project purpose
The project contributes to the partnership against H1V/AIDS in Zambia by supporting the Government's
program as articulated in the Zambia National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS. The purpose of this
program is to reduce the spread of HTV/AIDS, to mitigate the socio-economic impact of the disease, and
to increase access to care and support for people infected or affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
Zambia. The project is selective in the support it provides and focuses on the financing of high priority
interventions for which significant funding gaps exist. The overall project is based on a new approach
for addressing HIV/AIDS by supporting and strengthening community-based responses to the epidemic.
The Zambia National Strategic Framework on WIV/AIDS 2000-2003 of October 2000, is the reference
document for both the program and the project. Further development of and amendments to this
document are not unlikely as the multi-sectoral nature of Zambia's response to the epidemic evolves.
(b) Project development objective
The project development objective of the ZANARA project is to significantly increase access to, and use
of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation programs with particular emphasis on vulnerable
populations (e.g. youth, women of childbearing age, orphans, widows and widowers, child or
women-headed households, people living with HIV/AIDS and other groups at increased risk of infection
or being affected). The details of each sub-objective are given in Annex 1.
I.A.3. Project Description:
General. The project will support Zambia's response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the context of the
principles and objectives reflected in the Zambia National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Strategic Framework
2001-2003, and in close collaboration with a wide variety of implementing, co-ordinating and supporting
partners. The support to implementing agencies will involve public as well as private sector and
religious organizations, with a main focus on community driven initiatives. The co-ordination of the
national response will be supported through the National AIDS Council (NAC), its Secretariat and the
decentralized entities charged with co-ordination at the district level. The project administration will be
housed initially in the Ministry of Finance and National Planning as the ministry mandated to mobilize



3
ISDS
resources and co-ordinate their use. Flexibility in both project design and project implementation is
essential in view of the evolving character of Zambia's multi-sectoral approach to the WHV epidemic, and
the evolving financial support from other collaborating partners. In the same context the establishment of
a Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee will be crucial as it will provide the platform for agreed
adjustments during the project cycle and for joint financing arrangements, assuring that IDA funds do not
replace grant funding from other partners.
Part (a) Support for Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS): (US$ 14.7 million)
Financial support under this component will serve to support communities in responding to the epidemic,
either directly through financing activities by community based organizations or through the facilitation
of interventions by NGOs, Religious Organizations or Organizations of People Living with HIV/AIDS.
At central level, the administration of this component will be under the Ministry of Finance and National
Planning with the Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) as the lead executing agency. Support for
approved organizations will be provided through ZAMSIF as grants, upon approval of proposals.
Eligibility criteria for organizations and activities to be supported as well as the operational aspects of
this component are elaborated in the CRAIDS Operational Manual.
At the district level, ZAMSIF will collaborate closely with NAC and the co-ordinating entities to review
and, when appropriate, approve proposals. Care will be taken to maintain an appropriate balance
between interventions targeted at the prevention of HIV transmission and interventions targeted to the
provision of care and support to infected or affected individuals or households. Equally, the geographic
spread of activities will be monitored and additional efforts to mobilize communities are anticipated in
case of relative inertia in an identified geographic area. Particular attention will be given to an
appropriate co-operation with the relevant Technical Working Groups and the NAC in order to assure an
appropriate support for the various target groups.
Part (b) Support to the National AIDS Council and Secretariat (US$ 2.5 million)
This component will provide support to the National AIDS Council (NAC) to co-ordinate the national
response to AIDS. Its Secretariat will provide technical guidance and implement Council decisions
emanating from the mandate and deliberations of the Council. The Council and Secretariat do not
constitute an irmplementing agency but will play a facilitating and catalytic role. At district level,
appropriate entities for the co-ordination and harmonization of HIV/AIDS related interventions will be
eligible for financial support as well. Financial support for the NAC as well as for the district entities
will be provided on the basis of costed annual workplans. Eligible activities to be supported will be
consistent with the mission of the Council and target the co-ordination, monitoring and harmonization of
interventions by the various implementing actors in order to achieve synergism and complementarity. In
this context, project funds will be available to facilitate the review and approval process of sub-project
proposals submitted under Part (a) of the project.
Particular attention will be reserved for support to the Co-ordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) role of the Secretariat. As a major challenge within the context of a multisectoral program with
multiple, and very diverse implementing partners, the monitoring of all HIV/AIDS related activities by
the Council and Secretariat is a crucial issue and the project will finance activities related to capacity
building in this area. The establishment of M&E systems and mechanisms, as well as the conduct of
specific studies for data gathering, analysis and dissemination would be supported under this component
of the project.
Part (c) Support to the Line Ministries (US$ 21.3 million)



4
ISDS
One prong of this component (US$9.6 million) has the specific purpose of mainstreaming
HIV/AIDS-related activities into the workprograms of all line ministries, this sub-component will support
sector-specific responses to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The HIV/AIDS Focal Person in each ministry is
expected to facilitate the elaboration of annual workplans that address:
(cl) the internal impact. The manner in which HIV/AIDS has affected the quality, quantity and
substance of available services, the ability to supply the required services, the organization of
the sector, the role of service providers, human resources policy and management practices, the
planning and management of sector resources, and the availability of resources to the sector;
(c2) the external impact. The manner in which the sector can contribute to the prevention of
further spread of HIV in order to protect both staff and target populations, and the increase in
access to and use of care and support for the affected or infected.
Within the context of the National Strategic Framework several "catalytic projects" have been identified
that constitute recognized best practices. The ministries responsible for taking the lead in increasing the
coverage of these programs have been identified and the project will make resources available for this
purpose. Where the implementing agency is a NGO, CBO, or Religious Organization, support will be
channeled through the CRAIDS component to the extent possible.
The line ministries are considered as key public sector partners in Zambia for the fight against
HIV/AIDS, and project funds will be used for eligible expenditures as proposed in annual workplans of
those ministries. These ministries include the Ministry of Health; Education; Sport, Youth and Child
Development; Community Development and Social Services; Science, Technology and Vocational
Training; Agriculture, Food and Fisheries; Labor and Social Security; Commerce, Trade and Industry;
Finance and Economic Development; Home Affairs; Defence; Information and Broadcasting Services;
Local Government and Housing; Works; Energy and Water Development. Five ministries will receive
priority, given their central role in the fight against HIV/AIDS and/or their large staffs -- Defence,
Education, Health, Home Affairs (includes police and prisons), and Local Government.
Budgeted workplans have been prepared which detail the activities to be conducted by each Ministry in
the first year. These first year work plans concentrate on measures to immediately protect staff,
including new recruits, in the respective ministries, on the scaling up of the catalytic projects and on
capacity building for the elaboration of more comprehensive and sector-specific responses. The detailed
first year workplan for each ministry is available in the Project files.
Under the second prong of this component (US$11.7 million) , the Ministry of Health's National
Program, will support the implementation and support and mitigation of the impact of WHV/AIDS for
those affected and infected, as outlined in the Ministry of Health's HIV/AIDS Workplan. The focus of
the workplan is on strengthening youth friendly services, expansion of voluntary counselling and testing
(VCT) services, provision of safe blood, strengthening laboratory services, information education and
communication (IEC), partnerships with traditional healers, research, and monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, this sub-component will fund activities as described under the first prong of this component as
they relate to the Ministry of Health.
Part (d) Program Administration (US$ 3.5 million)
A Program Administration Unit (PAU), established within the MOFNP and reporting to the Permenant
Secretary- Secretary to the Treasury will be responsible for the administration, management, and
reporting of all project activities. Reports for all stakeholders on resources and their use, implementation
progress and procurement plans and progress will be consolidated by this unit. In addition, the PAU will



5
ISDS
oversee the financial management, procurement and disbursement functions of the project and be
responsible for the day to day interactions with the World Bank on project administration. The PAU will
initially be established in the Ministry of Finance and National Planning, but, during the course of project
implementation, the Govemment and IDA will assess whether MOFNP as the parent institution of the
PAU remains the most appropriate. The unit will be established with the specific understanding that it
may accomodate the administrative and project management requirements of co-operating partners.
Components:
Part (a) CRAIDS
Part (b) National AIDS Council
Part (c1) Line Ministries
Part (c2) MOH National Program
Part (d) Program Administration
l.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented country-wide. The project in itself is not expected to generate any
adverse environmental effects. However, it is recognized that the HIV/AIDS epidemic has caused an
increase in the volume of hazardous medical waste generated. Inappropriate handling and disposal of
medical waste and inadequate management of the respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas
has therefore become a greater threat. The project will finance training of health care professionals,
traditional birth attendants/traditional healers, and community workers delivering care to HI4V/AIDS
patients. This training will include instruction on appropriate separation, transport and disposal of
hazardous medical waste. The project will finance the revision of existing health sector guidelines on
appropriate management of medical waste at medical facilities and at disposal sites to include the
relevant sections regarding HIV/AIDS.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by assisting and empowering people and
institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV epidemic. People living with HIV/AIDS and their
families will have an opportunity to receive better social support from their communities, civil society
organizations and the Government. Families of people living with HIV/AIDS are vulnerable to economic
and human rights abuses in the absence of legislation and social norms that can protect them. The
project will support and enhance the development of community norms that will protect people living
with HIV/AIDS. The project will involve key stakeholders, including civil society organizations and
people living with HIV/AIDS in the development of such social protective measures.
B. Clheck Environmental Classif cation: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project was appraised in April 2001, at which time the Environmental Classification was
"C" (no assessment) and the initial Environmental and Social Data Sheet (ESDS) was approved on January
19, 2001. The current requirements of preparation and disclosure of the Medical Waste Management Plan
prior to Appraisal were not applicable at the time. When the categorization of MAP projects was changed to
Environmental Classification "B" in August 2001, the preparation of the project had slowed down, mainly
because of frequent changes within the Zambia government in the running up to the elections in December
2001. Consultations on the Medical Waste Management issues to be addressed and the preparation of a
Medical Waste Management Plan started only in the 2002 calendar year.
A draft Medical Waste Management Plan has been prepared by Ministry of Health, supported by



ISDS
resources under the Project Preparation Facility. Resources under the ZANARA Project will support the
implementation of this plan. The plan addresses major adverse environmental effects such as
inappropriate handling and disposal of hazardous medical waste, including sharp needles. Under the plan
it is proposed to train health care professionals, traditional birth attendants and traditional healers, and
other community workers delivering care to HIV/AIDS patients. This training will include instruction on
appropriate separation, transport and disposal of hazardous medical waste. In addition, a campaign to
educate the general public and especially those living near disposal sites on the potential hazards of
medical waste will be conducted. The project will finance the revision of existing health sector
curriculum on appropriate management of hazardous medical waste at medical facilities and at disposal
sites to include the relevant dispositions regarding HIV/AIDS, and on occupational safety guidelines for
health care workers. The draft Medical Waste Management Plan is available in the project files for
additional information.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       C Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C' Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                 C Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          CO Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         O Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
In the context of what has been mentioned above under comments, the project complies with all Bank's
safeguard policies, including those described above. A Medical Waste Management Plan has been
elaborated by the Government. Once reviewed, guidance will be sought from ESD on whether further
Environmental Assessment work will be necessary.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A



7
ISDS
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders include all sectors of Government, development partners, NGOs/CBOs/FBOs, People
living with HIV/AIDS and their families, medical personnel, including professional medical
organizations, and the general population. With regard to issues related to medical waste management
special emphasis will be given to involve medical personnel at all levels. During project preparation,
consensus-building exercises to involve major stakeholders to gain consensus around the project concept
document, project design and implementation arrangements have been conducted. During project
implementation, communities will be able to express their needs through Community HIV/AIDS projects
and to participate as active partners in project implementation, adding ownership, transparency and
accountability to the project.
Consultations with civil society organizations on the concept of the project have been extensive and
further consultations during project implementation, monitoring and evaluation will continue. NGOs and
other civil society organizations will implement a significant part of the project, supporting government
agencies and communities in the implementation of project activities. Civil society organizations will
also be consulted in the annual project reviews, in the mid-term reviews and during the summative
evaluation of the project.
E. Safeguards Classifjcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Available  10/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            8/31/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             8/31/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure



8
8                             ~~~~~~~~~~~ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Albertus Voetberg                           11/22/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                         11/26/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                        11/22/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
65CA~CNIN       PgW8ACK      &IE                     ,MSH  M



